ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting my 34th extraordinary session of the National Assembly. I am informed that Mr Ferenc Horváth cannot attend today's meeting. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! Allow me to address the National Assembly before the agenda is set. Dear colleagues! Tomorrow, April 8th, it will be 30 years from the first multi-party direct and free elections with us. With the exception of those that occurred in the early 19th century, the fact that this important anniversary in the National Assembly should be particularly solemnly marked, together with the actors, delegates and delegates of the day, who, at that time, had encouraged the formal possibilities of the self-sustainment process, but the current circumstances associated with the epidemic, the celebration of a large number of participants are unfortunately not favourable. Nevertheless, in the lobby of the National Assembly we have set up a photographic exhibition called The Breakdown of the Moment, because these unique historical milestones, which not only marked our past but also the present and future, must not be missed or forgotten. The elections in 1990 enabled the transition to parliamentary democracy and are one of the key acts of the self-sustaining process, or as described by the late Dr. France Bučar, from a legal point of view, constitute a crucial act that formally terminated the single party power in Slovenia and created the possibility of Slovenia becoming a modern and democratically regulated society. 30 years ago, voters were well aware of the importance of the historic moment and of the general importance of the elections when people surrender their power to elected representatives and therefore directly decide on important state issues through them. With high electoral participation, they have shown that they want the changes they can achieve with determination and responsibility through the then candidates who have performed slightly differently at the pre-election stage than we are now doing, at least in a much more relaxed, spontaneous, unified and respectful manner. We can therefore proudly remember today all the candidates who participated in these first elections 30 years ago, although unfortunately there are not many who are still active in politics. Article 3 of the Constitution provides for the authority of the people in Slovenia. Citizens and citizens are executed directly by elections based on the principle of the division of power into legislative, enforcement and judicial. We all therefore bear the responsibility to strengthen the reputation of all the authorities and their representatives by seeking as persistently and patiently as possible a consensus to solve problems and to make decisions. Today, Slovenia seems to be independent, especially for younger generations who have not experienced the self-sustainment process, something normal and self-sustaining. Similarly, political pluralism and elections have become common and self-evident for most citizens and citizens. But the reality was quite different three decades ago. The multi-party elections, as the most important expression of human sovereignty, were far from being self-evident. In addition to the appropriate legal basis provided by the current Socialist Assembly in the last months of 1989, it also required a lot of determination, unity and even courage. At that time, the historic elections, held on 8 and 12 April 1990, were marked by a remarkable three-way assembly, in fact, more than 83% of the voter turnout is now unimaginable. The latter was clear proof of the people's desire for decades of political participation and a desire for democratic change. Dearly beloved, with the elections we remember today, three decades ago we opened a new chapter in Slovenian history and embarked on an uncertain, unknown, difficult but undoubtedly right path. We have embarked on the path of freedom, independence and democracy. Over the past three decades, we have achieved much, gone through a number of trials, and faced many challenges. No matter how difficult these trials were, we came out of them stronger and more experienced. So let the next 30-year-old of the historic multilateral elections not only serve us in memory of the turning point of the event itself, but also in inspiration and hope for the future during this difficult period. At a time when we are dealing with the worst epidemic of modern times, we must work with our responsible work to bring unity and hope among people, because if that is not the case, any well-intentioned action to combat the epidemic and for a better tomorrow may be in vain. Of course, none of us are omnipotent and unmistakable, all of us are human and not sorcerers who could quickly produce a better life. People who are working hard today to alleviate or eliminate the consequences of the epidemic, even if they are ever mistaken, are the last to deserve a finger - pointing, playing, calling for a better job or something like that. These people, regardless of their role, deserve only gratitude in these difficult times, so let us avoid unconstructive criticism and criticism from the couch. We can be very good at this sometimes, but let's save it for some other, more peaceful times. Rather than show it, because we are capable of doing so, we have more cooperation, cohesion and unity. Coronavirus does not choose between poor or rich countries, between superpowers or third world countries, poor or rich individuals, among politicians, economists, workers, doctors, police officers, young or old. Therefore, we must together preserve our economy, education, culture, society, family, health, safety and all the other foundations that connect us in our country. If we look at some news, maybe statistics, Slovenia is currently among the more successful countries in the fight against the virus, and I am sure that we will finally win this battle. Even after this battle, Slovenia will remain a modern, democratic, regulated society, a country that is one of the most developed countries in the world, as it was conceived by the first elections 30 years ago. Stay healthy. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 34th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday, 6 April 2020, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received a proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as it has received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the operation of the devices. We're voting. It's 86 votes against no one. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 34th Extraordinary Session has been set. We're moving on to one. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the Act on Referendum and on human initiative within the framework of the current procedure. The proposal was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister Boštjan Koritnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u2	Good-bye, everybody! Thank you for this opportunity to present this novel. All the measures we are taking these days must not only remain blank letters on paper, but their effects must be felt as soon as possible by all respected citizens and citizens. That is why I expect, and today's National Assembly Committee has already demonstrated this, that we will be able to overcome the political divide and allow the measures to be taken to deal with the covida-19 epidemic to be adopted as soon as possible and that the assistance provided by the karssad will reach the citizens as quickly as possible. But help is needed by all, regardless of political affiliation, religion, and other directions. In this belief and hope, I am also strengthened by the fact that the amendment of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative has already been subject to broad coordination in the two previous governments. That is why I believe that there will be no support, and there should be no problem. Today, I was informed on the Committee that there were 87 Members present at the decision of the National Assembly when it was decided to amend the Constitution which restricted the right to a referendum, 86 of them confirmed the amendment. You're here today, if I saw you correctly, just like 86. The articles that are the subject of today's novelty are only taken from the amendments at that time. As you know, the deadline for these amendments has expired six years or one year ago, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court in 2018 and on the basis of a request for harmonisation of the referendum legislation with the constitutional law of 2013. The purpose and purpose of the bill is to implement the constitutional arrangements of this 2013 legislative referendum on one of the components. The reason — I have discussed this several times in recent days — that we have submitted only four articles and not 40 to the National Assembly for adoption is precisely the fact that we now need these four articles in particular. This does not mean that we do not need and that other changes do not need to be made, but that necessity has proved most necessary in these four articles. Let me explain. The second paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution lays down four legislative areas, or laws, on which a referendum is not permitted. These are laws on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the country, safety or remedy the consequences of natural disasters. This is, I would say, the area or point to which the novels submitted today refer. The second, third and fourth points are the laws on taxes, customs and other compulsory taxes, and the law adopted for the implementation of the State budget, the laws on the ratification of international treaties and laws that eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms or other non-constitutionalities. It is clear from the nature of the matter that the qualitative difference between the first and three other points of this second paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution is clear. The laws referred to in the second indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution, for which the Constitution does not provide for a referendum and where there is also an epidemic – i.e. an epidemic, specifically covid-19 – provide that such laws will be promulgated and enforced as soon as there are no further reservations, the possible veto of the State Council, and that voters will have the opportunity to raise a subsequent constitutional dispute within 15 days of the law being enacted if they consider that the National Assembly has violated the right to a referendum and will also be able to enforce the law. I would like to point out that this is a very strict safeguard that ensures the democratic nature of the procedure, as it will be possible for any electorate to do so without justification of legal interest. At the same time, this novelty, which is also crucial today, gives us up to eight days to get a shorter timeline for the adoption of new anti-korona packages. The other one's already getting ready. Last week, we briefed the SNS, SAB, SD, Levica, LMŠ in writing and the representative of the Hungarian and Italian minorities. As it is said, this is a text which has already been coordinated twice in one way or another, lastly in the December 2019 public debate. These visits, or communication, also confirmed this. In principle, this proposal is not controversial and we all agree more or less that it is necessary. More specifically, Article 21a of the ZRLI. The National Assembly shall, on a proposal from the Government, adopt a decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum within seven days of the adoption of the law, irrespective of the possible initiative for a referendum. The proposer is the Government, which means that the proposal will be based on reasons in practice already an integral part of the draft law under urgent procedure. The government is the one who, I would say, knows the situation best, the one who knows how much time it takes to implement an individual measure, and it seems reasonable and understandable, even the Law-Legal Service here had no comments that the proposed Government was. If the Council of State then decides not to veto, the National Assembly shall take a decision as soon as it receives such a decision by the Council of State. If the Council of State is vetoing, then the National Assembly shall take a decision immediately after the adoption of the law. If it is not accepted, of course, this procedure is dismissed. After the adoption of the decision, the National Assembly shall send the law for publication and shall publish it in the Official Journal. And now the key thing I have already mentioned is to assess the constitutionality of the law. Any elector shall have the option of proposing a constitutional review 15 days after the law is in force, and the time limit for a Constitutional Court decision shall be 30 days. It's over. I would like to see enough political will for a two-thirds majority, as the adoption of this novel is an essential basis for faster adoption of new anti-korona marriage packages and very strict guardians remain in the bill. We do not accept the novel for this government, but for any government that will be in such a situation, which, I stress, I do not afford to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Predrag Bakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government is at its 21st emergency meeting. 4. 2020 as a parent labour body has considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Referendum and on the Human Initiative submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 64th session. 4. 2020 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. Representatives of the Ministry of Public Administration and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. The amendments of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Articles 1, 2 and 3 and of the LMŠ Group to Article 2 were tabled within the time limit. In the context of the objectives and main solutions to the draft law, the proposer indicated that the purpose of the law proposal is to implement the 2013 legislative regulation of the legislative referendum in relation to one of the components, as regards the subject matter of the referendum decision, namely the decision of the procedure in case of limitation and the prohibition of the referendum. While the applicant is aware that, in view of the changes in the Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court, the U-I-191/17 of 25. 1. 2018 needs to adopt a comprehensive novel ZRLI, but in the light of the circumstances – this covida-19 epidemic – has decided to propose this novel immediately, which is necessary in order to ensure effective and rapid legislative procedures and thus allow for immediate action in cases where the consequences of natural disasters are addressed and to ensure the security of citizens and the defence of the country. In the shortest possible time, the proposaler announced the preparation of a comprehensive novel, which will also eliminate all other inconsistencies. The draft law therefore regulates the decision-making procedure of the National Assembly in the event that the referendum is not admissible. In accordance with the proposed arrangements, the National Assembly will adopt a finding that the referendum is not admissible to be signed within 14 days of the initiative being tabled. The proposer of the referendum will have the opportunity to request a constitutional review of the decision of the National Assembly within 15 days of the publication of the finding in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Court will decide on the application within 30 days and publish the decision in the Official Journal. If the National Assembly adopts that decision, it will delay the collection of signatures and the deadline for their collection. The collection of signatures will continue the day following the publication of the decision of the Constitutional Court in the Official Journal in the case of a decision of the Constitutional Court that the decision of the National Assembly is inconsistent with the Constitution. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that the proposal for a law constituted partial alignment with the constitutional law, namely in the work requiring the regulation of proceedings in the National Assembly and the judiciary, the right to vote in the referendums, i.e. the 90th Article of the Constitution, in the case of laws exempted from the legislative referendum. It also pointed out that, given that the deadlines for aligning the ZRLI with the constitutional law and the decision of the Constitutional Court had already expired, the National Assembly should adopt a law as soon as possible, which would be in full conformity with the constitutional law and the decision of the Constitutional Court. In addition, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly governing the procedure for the referendum and the transmission of the adopted law into the declaration should be fully aligned with the Constitutional Law and the ZRLI. It also pointed out that the Legislative and Legal Service has made some comments to each article on the internal compatibility of the law, duly corrected by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. The draft law was also addressed by the National Council of State Commission and gave a written opinion in which it supported the proposal. In doing so, she agreed with the drafter of the bill that it was necessary to submit to the legislative procedure as soon as possible a law which would deal comprehensively with all open issues in the field of referendum and human initiative, as it was unacceptable for him to postpone for so many years the amendments requested by the Constitutional Court six years ago. Following the debate of the Members, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2 and 3 of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of Article 2 of the LMš Group. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Left Party. My colleague Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Your Honor! Today's amendments to the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative are aimed at one thing: the immediate implementation of the laws passed without any possibility of a referendum. We have already opposed the change in the Constitution and the reduction of democratic standards in the Left. We know how the Constitution was amended in 2013 — under the pretext of excessive abuse of the Institute of Referendum and the demands for excessive austerity, the whole of that time’s policy made a compromise and entered not one but two extremely harmful measures into the Constitution. In addition to the excessive limitation on the possibility of a referendum, a harmful fiscal rule has been included in the Constitution. For the last ten years, we can divide it into three periods. In the first period, injurious measures were taken under the pretext of urgently needed austerity measures. In addition to the protests, the political esteblishment has been extremely disturbed by the fact that a referendum is also available to prevent the violation of rights and of the social state. As a result, after the fall of pension reform in the referendum, proposals for limiting referendum decision-making have become even louder. In the previous term, we have witnessed further appetites in the light of savings following the reduction of democratic standards. SMC, for example, wanted to abolish the elections in the main parts of the municipalities and then wanted to restrict access to public information. It was only after the public's loud opposition that the coalition withdrew from these attempts. After a period of harmful belt tightening, we arrived at a period of excessive exposure to the safety situation. Overexposure of the changed security situation and constant intimidation with refugees were arguments for a whole range of harmful and also anti-constitutional measures. Increase in repression, new police powers, IMSI hunters, paralysers, police powers for the military, anti-constitutional mass control over license plates, anti-constitutional Aliens Act – these are just a few cases of harmful measures from this period. We are now in the third period of the epidemic. The increase in repression, restriction and interference with human rights and the beating of all democratic standards achieved this time are justified by the threat of the epidemic and conveniently hidden among the positive measures that are indeed urgently needed. The change that we are considering today was also hidden in the so-called corona law last week. As the evidence of the unconstitutionality of such a proposal has been overestimated, today we have an amendment to the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, and this proposal should be urgently needed to combat the epidemic. In practice, the proposal provides that the law may enter into force immediately after its adoption and that a referendum decision on such an emergency law will not be possible. Whether it is a matter of law and measures that are urgently needed, the Government will, of course, decide on its own. In Levi, we question the Government's well-intentionedness that it will only take measures that are really necessary and beneficial to people under this provision. All the government's moves and proposals so far only further confirm that our fear is fully justified. It does not support the argument that the suspension of the referendum and the possibility of the immediate implementation of the law are essential for the timely adoption of the measures that the economy and people urgently need. For all of these measures can already have a retroactive effect today. The measures provided for in the intervention law adopted last week are proof of this. The law will only enter into force on Friday, but all measures will still apply from 13 March onward. That is why today's changes were not necessary. Let us ask ourselves what measures are such that they cannot and must not be applied in return, and there is a great deal of room for a referendum on them to be required – those who would go back to the rights already acquired, to reduce labour rights, democratic standards and wages, for example, and excessive police powers, to intervene in privacy and so on. These are measures that fall under the proposed suspension of the referendum and immediate implementation today. According to the media report, the rights of workers will be the target of the next intervention law. In the coming weeks and months, we will also receive the first austerity measures on the tables and they can be implemented immediately and the referendum will be disabled. We are always opposed to restricting the referendum decision in Levica. As far as this particular law is concerned, we believe that our fears of abuse are fully justified and that it is only a matter of time before they come true, so we will oppose the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u7	Thank you. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Comrade Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues! Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats is pleased that we have created a significant majority on the committee this morning or this afternoon, which supported the amendment of the Law on the Referendum and on the Human Initiative. We are pleased to find, at least as it appeared on the committee, that the parliamentary majority understands what it means to adopt and to enforce extremely important laws as soon as possible, specifically in this case a law that would help people and the Slovenian economy, which has been terribly affected by coronary disease. This majority on the committee – let me put it this way – also clearly expresses the desire to live in a state governed by law, in a state governed by law, and that we have firmly said no to anarchy. I also want to walk in this position in history. On 24 May 2013, the amendment to Article 90 of the Constitution, which refers to a legislative referendum, confirmed 86 of the 87 Members present, which means that 95.5% of all Members voted in favour of this amendment, or 98.8% of all present. For this reason, it follows that we have been so united in this constitutional change, and we cannot possibly accept any criticism that there is any restriction on democratic principles. It is true, however, that the Constitutional Law on Amendments to the 1990s, as well as Articles 97 and 99 of the Constitution, which was signed by the then President of the National Assembly on 24 May, contained or contained content in the second section, which states: The Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative is aligned with Article 1 of this Constitutional Law within one year of its entry into force. One year passed, colleagues and colleagues, May 2014. The following month is May 2020, which means we are six years behind schedule. Yes, it is true, we must also operationalize Article 90 of the Slovenian Constitution by force of opportunity. The Constitution is not an implementing act, so the constitutional law that I have appointed also requires the legislative branch of the authorities to amend the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative. I would like to say that this set of laws, which cannot be described as referendums, consists of laws in the field of state defence, security or the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters, to which there must be some kind of coronary disease. When it comes to aid – as we have explained in a long and broad way in the past week – to people and to the Slovenian economy, which weighs 3 billion and 100 million euros, it is also an extremely important principle to give quickly twice. When it comes to natural disasters, speed is extremely important. And it is also important to obtain this law, which we are now amending, namely the law on referendum and on human initiative, that we should reduce the time for the law to enter into force in just eight days. This is extremely important. Today, disappointments come from medical circles, from those circles that all of us — and that is objective and fair — thank you for actually being in the first battle lines. But since the law doesn't apply, they can't do what we gave them in marriage. In fact, they would also be financially stimulated by their work. That's not gonna happen. That's not gonna happen because the law hasn't been enforced yet. As at the committee, New Slovenia will also support the amendment of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, but we will not support the amendments of the LMŠ.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek. A colleague of mags. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The referendum, as one of the forms of direct democracy, allows the electorate and electorate directly to decide on a legal act or any other matter. In this way, all citizens can participate in the process of drafting individual acts of the legislative body with the right to vote. In fact, a referendum is a tool for voters to exercise control over the National Assembly and its work. In more detail, the referendum is regulated by the Referendum Act and the Human Initiative, which sets out when the National Assembly should present a referendum, in which cases it is not allowed to be declared and who has the right to vote. The law thus provides for a way of implementing the referendum and its implementation. The referendum regime has been amended several times over the years, most recently in 2013. At that time, a constitutional law was adopted, which reduced the number of candidates for the referendum, established restrictions and prohibitions and raised the level of legitimacy of the decision-making process. The second paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution lays down cases in which a legislative referendum is not allowed to be published. This is the case with the laws on emergency measures to ensure the protection of the State, security or remedy the consequences of natural disasters, the laws on taxes, customs and other compulsory taxes, the law to be adopted for the implementation of the budget, the laws on the ratification of international treaties, and the laws to eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms or other non-constitutionalities. Although the institution of inadmissibility of the referendum may act as an intervention in the right to request a referendum, we must be aware at the same time that, in parallel with the right provided for in Article 90 of the Constitution, there are other very important constitutional values. For them, the right to request a referendum must be withdrawn and the Constitutional Court has also attached itself to it. I am talking in particular about the laws on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the country, safety or to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. The latter should be acted quickly and effectively, while the call for a legislative referendum significantly prolongs the enforcement process. This can quickly lead to difficult remedial consequences. The provisions of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative to date have not been adapted to the changes in constitutional arrangements. Its purpose is to implement the constitutional regulation of the legislative referendum. We are aware that the provisions of this law should be more widely adapted, but in the light of the current circumstances, only a part of the amendments has been decided. With them, we will ensure the efficient and swift legislative procedures that are urgently necessary. In the SAB party, we are aware of the importance of the right of citizens to participate in the management of public affairs and referendum decisions. Finally, the referendum is an important correction of representative democracy. Nevertheless, we estimate that the proposal provides effective legal protection as it gives every elector an opportunity to require an assessment within 15 days of the enactment of the law of the constitutionality of the adopted decision of the National Assembly. Otherwise, an individual may require a constitutional assessment only if he has demonstrated a legal interest and has exhausted all legal remedies in advance. In the SAB Group, we therefore agree that the laws on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the State, security or remedy the consequences of natural disasters must be declared and enforced as soon as there are no further objections to the possible veto of the State Council. Following existing procedures, the President of the National Assembly shall send the laws to the President of the Republic on the eighth day following the adoption, unless a request for a referendum or veto of the Council of State has been submitted at that time. This would result in a shorter timeline of up to eight days for the adoption of the second anti-korona law. Therefore, in the SAB Group, we will unanimously support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, colleague Yuri Lep.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u12	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today, we have an extremely important law on our hands, which we have been waiting for since 2013, when we, with a large parliamentary majority, confirmed the amendment of the Institute of the Legislative Referendum. During a more than six-year period, policy has not yet reached a political consensus on how to implement this change of constitution into legal provisions, unfortunately. Let me just remind you that prior to the amendment of the Constitution, the previous regime has allowed the abuse of this institution, in most cases for political purposes, as a means of fighting for political power, and therefore a decision has been proposed and adopted limiting qualified quorum candidates and the content of the referendum decision alone. In the Desus Group, we stress that these restrictions do not constitute a restriction on democracy, nor do they limit the direct decision-making of the electorates and voters, but rather limit the abuse of this institution. The content of the proposed amendment to the Referendum Act and the People's Initiative is thus followed by an amended constitutional provision and establishes the procedure and cases of inadmissibility of the referendum. These are cases of laws on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the country, safety or remedy the consequences of natural disasters. The fact is that a more comprehensive reform of the referendum legislation, including taking into account the last constitutional decision on the 2018 referendum dispute, would necessarily be necessary, but we fully agree with the proposaler that due to the current epidemiological situation at this time it is imperative to approach the changes that will allow for effective and rapid legislative procedures and, therefore, immediate action in cases where the consequences of natural disasters and the security of citizens and the defence of our country are being addressed. Today we also decide on the legal basis for the immediate proclamation of the law, of course taking into account the procedure concerning the veto of the Council of State. The latter solution has already been included by the Government in the proposal of the so-called covid-19 intervention law, but on the basis of professional and, in particular, reasoned comments, we have removed such a proposal from both our legislative and legal services and other experts. In the Desus Group, we believe that the possibility of immediate announcement and enforcement constitutes an urgent and proportionate measure, provided, of course, that the legislation on emergency measures is necessary to ensure the defence of the State, safety or to remedy the consequences of natural disasters whose immediate enforcement is necessary and could have serious remedial consequences with delay. Of course, the proposal also provides for certain guardians in this case, anyone who has been elected to the Constitutional Court will be able to request an assessment of the constitutionality of the law. Consequently, the Constitutional Court will be able to repeal the law in whole or in part. In the Desus Group, we are confident that the procedure under these provisions will be carried out only exceptionally, in cases of real urgency, on the basis of a proposal and further explanation of the reasons for the inadmissibility of the referendum. Let me finish my position. Members of Desus hope and expect that the proposed amendments will receive the support of a sufficient number of Members and Members, in particular in view of the positions of the political parties and the parliamentary groups in 2016, when we have already addressed the proposal with such content, but unfortunately the proposal as a whole has not received the required two-thirds support from the Members present. The proposal for this time's amendment to the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative will receive our unanimous support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors, Victory Jelinčič Nobleni.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u14	Thank you very much. The first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia refers to laws, urgent measures to ensure the protection of the State, safety or to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. The amendment to Article 90 of the Constitution in 2013, this being said on 24 May, was adopted, but the amendment of the law was not followed, although it was then promised that this would happen in one year. It was one of the sabbaticals of the political summits that did not do it. This constitutional regime is now being implemented by this law, namely this 2013 legislative referendum, in the event of restrictions and a ban on the referendum. The new law governs the decision-making procedure of the National Assembly in the event that the referendum is not admissible. From 2013 to 2020, bureaucrats have done nothing and excuses the left option of not having sufficient support for the adoption of this implementation, in fact, they are pure demagogies, because once a constitutional amendment has been adopted with such a large majority, I think this law could also be adopted by the same majority. It wasn't like that. However, it is in this law that it is important to ensure effective legal protection, since every electorate has the right and the possibility within 15 days of the enforcement of a specific law to require a constitutional assessment. In view of the fact that the executive branch must act quickly, effectively, in order to prevent the entry into force of the law in the event of an emergency, we feel that the adoption of this bill is absolutely necessary and that is why we will support this in the Slovenian National Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u15	Thank you. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, colleague Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u16	Colleagues and colleagues! A few months ago, no one imagined that we would be in a situation like today. Not only Slovenia, the whole world is fighting an enemy that is not visible with a free eye, but it has marked our lives very strongly. We fight not only for the health of our people, but also for their lives. The deadly virus has forced us to change our living habits, our work, our culture of residence, and our contacts. No one knows how long the epidemic will last and how much it will mark our lives even after the end of this threat. People today are in distress and in great uncertainty. They expect politicians to have quick and effective solutions that will make their way through and after this crisis easier. There's no time for political overtures. In the present situation, politics must play one of the most important roles since our country's independence. Politicians, who are usually very often on their shores, today should show all responsibility and step together in this fight. With all the rapid and effective measures taken at this time, it is also essential to amend the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative. It is a matter of implementing a constitutional provision already in 2013 concerning the restriction and prohibition of the referendum in certain circumstances. Among other things, the law specifies how the procedure is when it comes to laws on emergency measures to ensure the protection of the State, safety or to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. So also with the situations we're in today. On a proposal from the Government, the National Assembly shall decide by a decision within seven days of the adoption of the law at the latest to establish that the referendum is not admissible. If the Council of State decides not to vote in veto, the National Assembly shall adopt such a decision and, in the case of veto, the National Assembly shall take a decision to re-confirm the law. However, a request for a non-compliance assessment with Article 90 of the Constitution may be made within 15 days of the entry into force of the law by any voter, anyone shall say. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will support the proposal for amendments to the law prepared by the Government. It is the responsible conduct of both the legislative and executive branches of government in times and situations where it is necessary to react quickly and effectively, at a time when our decisions and solutions must reach citizens and citizens as soon as possible. And today, Your Honor, is the time. Today we're fighting the coronavirus, tomorrow we don't know what's gonna happen. We'll be able to face another natural disaster. All of these cases are covered by this law, and it is imperative that it be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca, Rudi Medved.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. After this extraordinary time when the epidemic is deeply affecting all times of life, we can rightly expect that there will be nothing more than that the measures that have to be implemented virtually overnight will be impossible to release with such dynamics. Therefore, we can expect that many of the things that are being cut down on us daily will be in force longer than we would like. In such situations, we must be extremely cautious in changing legislation, especially those that are embedded in the very foundations of the democratic system. The referendum is such an institution of democracy, which is a very powerful tool for the influence of citizens and citizens on the political direction of the country, so in the Marjan Sarca Group, on this proposal from the Government, we asked ourselves first whether now is a good time to intervene in such a sensitive area as the limitation of referendum law. Any possible error will be very difficult to correct in the future, as interfering with the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative requires two-thirds of the support of Members present, i.e. a very broad political consensus. However, the view prevailed that, despite the turbulence of time, a constructive debate could be held, as we may find that the issue of restricting referendum law would arise sooner or later in the need to adopt different intervention laws. Since the second paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution, which states, inter alia, that the referendum is not admissible to discuss laws on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the State, security or remedy the consequences of natural disasters, is not adequately supported by the Referendum and Human Initiative Act, we can find ourselves in a situation which would have irreparable consequences. It is therefore necessary to carefully consider the reference to Article 90(2) of the Constitution in the enforcement of intervention measures in order to avoid any harmful decisions that will not be remedied in the subsequent referendum. We have proposed an amendment to Article 21a of the proposal for amendments to the Act in the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc. Our proposal was that, in addition to the Government, a proposal for a decision to establish that the referendum was not admissible, any qualified candidate, delegation or group of at least 10 Members and Members could also be presented. Following an explanation and justification at the committee meeting, we resigned from this dictatorship in the amendment. We also withdrew from our proposal to reduce the time limit for the decision of the Constitutional Court from 30 days to 15 days, also on the basis of a reasoned explanation of the Legislative and Legal Service. However, since this is a very sensitive area of interference with the area of one of the most important levers of citizens and citizens in overseeing the procedures of the executive and legislative branches of power, this is in the field of the referendum, in the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc we believe that there must be as broad a political consensus as possible in such a decision. In order to avoid any over-supply and not-thought-out decisions that might have harmful effects with the suspension of the referendum on the conduct of the executive and legislative branches of government, we propose that such a decision be taken by the National Assembly by a two-thirds majority of the Members present. We believe that this is a proportionate solution, as the National Assembly also adopts solutions in the Referendum Act itself and the People's Initiative with a two-thirds majority of Members present. With this content of the amendment to Article 21a in the Group of Letters of Marjan Šarc, we continue to insist. Aware of the importance of the moment in which the Government and the National Assembly are faced with extremely important decisions each day, we would like to contribute to the effective and deliberate functioning of the executive and legislative branches of government in the parliamentary group with constructive proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u20	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The covida-19 campaign has shown many shortcomings in all social areas of action, not only in Slovenia, but also in countries that have been shown to us many times as examples throughout the world. As far as regulating referendum issues is concerned, I must first draw attention to the following. Following constitutional amendments, a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative 2015 was prepared, and the National Assembly considered it in February and April 2016. Unfortunately, this proposal, which also regulated the area on which we will vote today and will be supported today by the Social Democrats, was not supported by the opposition at that time. Even then, as today, a two-thirds majority of the Members and Members present were needed. Let me stress that the amendments and additions have been prepared with a view to implementing the Constitutional Court decision. We had time not to change the provisions tomorrow in case the referendum was not allowed to be declared. On 20 April 2016, the Social Democrats said in their position that we are moving away from the deadline of harmonisation of legislation with the constitutional provision, but not because of us Social Democrats, and we stress this today. We were aware that any delay in complying with the law with the Constitution could pose problems in the adoption of the law. Not only because of the new situation and power and new faces in the National Assembly, but also because the referendum can be carried out and implemented in different practices, but not through legal procedure. Social Democrats at the time could not accept the explanation, I quote that "with the adoption of the law we are not in a hurry" and that "we know the referendum without the law." And now it has turned out that we were right to warn that the law on the referendum and on the people's initiative must be adopted and brought into line with the constitution. We Social Democrats have always, irrespective of the status of the coalition or opposition party, stood in the same position – in order to reasonably limit the mass investment of referendum requirements. We do not flee from responsibility today in the opposition or then in the coalition. According to the forecast, we support the proposed amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, a colleague of Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u22	Thank you very much, President. The Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative was adopted in 1994 and subsequently amended several times. On the basis of the previous constitutional regime, he regulated both forms of the legislative referendum, i.e. the previous and the subsequent one. Relatively broad and easy access to the referendum, as well as a lack of regulation, have made it possible to use it as well as to abuse it to achieve political or party interests. In 2012, the Group of Members therefore tabled a proposal to initiate the procedure for amending Articles 90, 97 and 99 of the Constitution and in May 2013, the Constitutional Law was supported by all Members present, except one. The main features of the new constitutional regulation of the legislative referendum are: the request for a legislative referendum can only be submitted by the electorate; the referendum excludes explicitly certain types of legislation; the referendum remains subsequent, but it does not vote on the rejection and rejection of the law and is now prescribed for the quorum. Before amending the Constitution, there were no explicit prohibitions on the invitation to tender for a referendum on individual issues covered by the law. The amended second paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution now lays down four legislative areas, or laws, on which a referendum is not permitted. These include laws on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the country, safety or remedy the consequences of natural disasters. The constitutional law applies directly to the harmonisation of the referendum law, which means that the provisions of the referendum law, which are contrary to the constitutional law, are not applicable. Therefore, it would be necessary to adopt the law in line with those amendments to the Constitution, and we would like to point out that the deadline for harmonisation has expired six years ago, on 14 May 2014. In the SMC Group, we do not want to look back and find fault in the fact that the National Assembly has failed to comply with the constitutional amendments mentioned above, and the fact is that the amendments we are considering today have already been covered by the proposal for amendments to the law in 2015. The National Assembly considered the draft law in April 2016, but the hearing was concluded because the proposal as a whole did not receive the required two-thirds support of the representatives present. That is why we were in trouble, it was only at the time of the adoption of the so-called mega corona law by the name of the PKP1 or the laws that were passed before it. Laws containing intervention measures to address the consequences of natural disasters, such as the covida-19 epidemic, may also enter into force in accordance with business and legal deadlines only eight days after the adoption of the National Assembly. After adoption, laws must wait for the possibility of a possible veto of the State Council or a referendum initiative or requirement. While some legal experts were of the opinion that these deadlines could be reduced, and the Government was also of that opinion, the anti-korona law provided in Article 110 that it was not permissible to refer to the legislative referendum against this law. However, the President of the National Assembly and also of the SMC Group were skeptical in this regard, as we could risk that the law that we urgently need in these circumstances would fall even before the Constitutional Court. We have therefore drawn up an amendment setting out at least the procedure in the law, but this possibility also carries a risk, as two-thirds of the votes of the Members present are required for the adoption of the CAP1, while only a simple majority is required for the adoption of the CAP1. That is why we have not decided to do so, but it has been accepted as an addition to which Article 110 of the proposal in question has been deleted. Therefore, if we want to shorten the deadlines for the implementation of the next mega corona law, it is necessary to amend or harmonise the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative with the amendments to the 2013 Constitution. The novelty is governed by two procedures. In the first procedure, for the laws referred to in the second to fourth indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution, the National Assembly will adopt a finding that the referendum is not admissible within 14 days and the applicant will be given the opportunity to make a request within 15 days of the publication of the decision for a constitutional review of the finding of the National Assembly. However, the laws referred to in the first indent of the second paragraph of Article 90 provide for a second special procedure which provides for the immediate publication of the law and for the exclusion of the possibility of an initiative to call for a referendum. In the SMC, we are aware that the circumstances of the adoption are unusual at this time and that it may be an impression that it is an infringement of the political right to direct democracy or a referendum initiative, so we would like to point out once again that it is a matter of late compliance with the 2013 constitutional law, which is, [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Members. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I see there's only two debaters, so far. First he gets the word, Mr. Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'll be brief because I've already given my opinion to the board, but I'd like to point out some things. Today, the committee heard a great deal about this law, both on the side of those who are in favour and those who are against it. The National Assembly has already demonstrated that it can work very quickly and operationally when it comes to urgent matters and the exceptional circumstances in which we are today and that, if necessary, legislation can also adopt 24 hours. If the legislation is prepared properly and with the right purpose, without any hidden issues or articles that do not fall under some intervention legislation, I believe that there is probably very few of us who would oppose the matter. However, I would like to highlight something that we have already highlighted in the LMŠ. That is, that referendum legislation truly governs a more sensitive area, such as this important constitutional right of citizens to a referendum. On the committee this morning, it was obvious from some coalition Members that we would already have this in accordance with a constitutional decision today if we had arranged it when it was necessary and would not be discussed today. I fully agree with this, but it is these Members who forget or do not want to hear that this two-thirds majority is also needed by the opposition. And this is the majority that those Members then denied, in 2016, in these parties, whether they were the same or the others. It also maintains that any electorate may apply for a constitutional assessment. Here I would point out once again that the assessment of constitutionality is not equal to the right to a referendum, which is why it is still a matter of minority of different legal matter. Perhaps to conclude, I would also like to touch on the amendment tabled at this meeting by our Group of Members. It reads as follows: The National Assembly shall adopt the decisions referred to in the preceding paragraph by a two-thirds majority of the Members present. As stated in the position, we have duly withdrawn certain items of the amendment in the light of the opinion of the ZPS and some of the clarifications, but it seems really important to us that such a decision, as proposed in the first paragraph of Article 21a of the law on the non-admissibility of the referendum, be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the Members present. Last but not least, such a majority is also prescribed for the adoption of referendum legislation and, consequently, this law, which we are talking about today, is the referendum law and the people's initiative. And they would still be, irrespective of all the laws that would contain these necessary measures to ensure the defence of the country, the security or the remedy of the consequences of natural disasters, adopted by the general majority of Members and Members. This qualified majority would help or only be necessary for the adoption of this Decision as referred to in Article 21a, paragraph 1, thus preventing the possibility of a referendum on such a law. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u25	Thank you very much. There's more debates, so I'm going to open the application list now. Please sign in. We have three reported discussers. First, Mr Rudi Medved, Mr Jani Möderndorfer is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. With the amendment proposed in the Parliamentary Group of the List of Marjan Šarc, we certainly do not question the legitimacy of article 90 of the Constitution, nor do we question the legitimacy of the novel of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative. We don't even extend any procedures. Do we want to shorten deadlines for the enforcement of intervention measures or laws resulting from this? Of course we do, and we all agree that this is an emergency. We've never denied it. Even during this afternoon's debate on the Committee, we wanted to point out very well that, however, when deciding to suspend the referendum – as one of the fundamental pillars of democratic control – it is still necessary to be cautious and that it may sometimes be good to inhale once or twice. The proposal for a two-thirds majority could reach a broad debate on when and in which case the referendum should also be suspended. The 90th Article of the Constitution speaks of when referendums are not allowed, and the novel before us in Article 21a is an operationalization of this. Article 90 of the Constitution tells us nothing about how the National Assembly should implement this decision in practice in the Referendum and Human Initiative Act. There have also been criticisms on the way to this novelty of marriage. I'm not going to be talking about history now, what, who, and why he blamed this marriage for not changing for a long time. For example, it was obvious to me on the committee this morning that I had changed my mind and that my position on this law was significantly different from that of the Group of Members, because I was in the previous Government of the Minister of Public Administration, and I actually also advocated the early amendment of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative. Indeed, this solution, which is now on the table, has been about the same all the time, and it is true that the situation has changed slightly over the last period. And when it was obvious that this also sows fear of the coalition of John Janša and who knows what else – of course, it is nothing but a measure of caution. We know what was going on with the anti-Korona law and what pressure both the opposition and the very general public had on the fact that, for example, Article 104 then fell out of this law. However, criticism is still at the expense of the content of Article 103. That is why these urgent measures, which certainly need to be taken, need to be taken with caution both for the infestation and for the remedying of the consequences of this disaster that has struck us. I think that even a coalition with its proposals for laws — we do not know what the future will be like — would act more responsibly and would not determine what kind of anti-krone law appeared in this case. I would say that, on the one hand, they really did not have much to do with the content of how to help people, especially financially, because of the consequences of the epidemic – that such content in these laws would not even appear. [[…]] And, of course, if they do not appear, there is no fear that anyone or ever, even if a two-thirds majority were required, would be involved in such laws as this anti-korona law, the referendum is suspended, as stipulated in Article 90 of the Constitution. Just like a thought and an appeal, why do we propose this amendment? Not to break this law or to prevent the speed of adoption and enforcement of the necessary laws, but not to do so. This is just an attempt at our contribution to improving this law. I don't know where it would be, why fear of this two-thirds majority, if it's just a question of whether the referendum should be suspended or not. This does not mean, of course, that — the law to which this could apply — is normally adopted, with the normal majority. And that's the whole motive for making this amendment. He didn't run into support on the board. We were kind of expecting that. In view of the committee's vote this morning, it is likely that my call to reconsider will sound more or less empty. But we wanted to say where we are – I will not say anything, we have no doubts – where we want to contribute to make the contents of this novel even better.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the following word, and Mrs Maša Kociper is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Vice President. Today, on the committee, I have laid some points or grounds for why such a law is applicable and where we have the basis for it. In fact, before we discuss the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, of course, it is necessary to clarify why there has been a change of constitution at all. For the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative is nothing more than an exercise or enforcement, how these provisions are implemented by the Constitution. Instigators or proponents were all members of the coalition in the then government of John Janša, and I think he was also part of the SD. Signatories to change the constitution with one purpose, that is to limit themselves at that time — that is, it is now only 10 years past — to mass referendums that have been common, and we have been almost close to saying that we were close to the time dimension of the Swiss referendums they have every six months. After all, we did not have them every six months, but we had them too often for what was meant to be. I still remember what the proponents said today when they came up with the idea of changing the constitution – if the referendum is not meant to actually raise even Slovenia in each partial solution and decide on the matter of the matter for which Members or representatives of the people are actually in charge to decide in the National Assembly. Remember, I will give you an example of whether or not the railways are divided into two parts and into an economic part of the company. Then we had the return of funds in Telekom, and then we had a bunch of other proposals for referendum decision-making, which people actually didn't know how to decide, because they didn't even know matter or anything. Most of the time, however, the problem was that, in the back, this decision was always followed by a political initiative or political party that, with its apparatus and machinery, was actually abused by the Institute of Referendum that, in fact, they were always either ahead of the elections or at the time of campaigning even during the term, they pointed to certain political issues. Since we must not forget, at that time 30 Members could propose the opening of the referendum procedure. And that's how we got to the point when it had to be done. The initiators themselves were unable to do so in that government, but soon thereafter the decision in the next government, which took place in 2013, was the government of Alenka Bratušek, when the new coalition agreed to come with this solution, together with the decision and proposal of the then expert commission on the Constitutional Commission, which dramatically changed the basic, initial proposal on how to change the constitution and set up the so-called four anchors that spoke when the referendum could not be carried out. Let me stress that at the time, virtually all the Members present adopted this amendment to the Constitution, except for one Member, which nevertheless opposed almost every initiative in the National Assembly. It's about Mr. Vogrin. And that was also accepted at the time. We must not forget that this large majority backed up at that time because, at the same time, on the same day, we accepted the entry of a fiscal rule into the constitution. It was then clearly agreed within a political consensus to support each other. You know that part of the Members strongly opposed the entry of fiscal rules into the Constitution, including me, and we bit into a deep, heavy, sour apple or ate dumplings, as it is called, for the cost of adopting constitutional changes in the field of the referendum, we have adopted such provisions. Of course, some had already held a fig in their pocket because they knew that all these things would have to be settled with the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative. And here's the reason why we've been arguing for six years about whether or not this is going to happen. Among other things, I was the initiator of the referendum law and the people's initiative, where I proposed these changes and other changes, and they also fell. The irony of the whole story is that today, we have the government of John Janša, which is now urgently needed to carry out what should have been done long ago, is a real implementing act or law that would describe how this is done. It is true that today we define only one part of the things the Constitutional Court points to, but better than nothing, because the fact that we are missing a special roof law that would actually regulate matters when we are in a crisis situation in the country. We just don't have that. And that is why we are always faced with a problem when there is a situation, like what we now have, the Coronavirus, and we do not actually have any procedures defined. We only have in the constitution a clear way and when a matter can happen — we have an emergency or war. But for everything else, we don't really have that question solved. In this way, it would show that even after this crisis, when we overcome it, the Government is seriously considering solving this problem, that we also regulate all these procedures by means of one law, that in such cases when emergency situations occur, but that is not an emergency situation and there is no war. What the LMŠ is proposing – whether it is the LMŠ's proposal, I would now like to discuss the same if the SD, Levi, NSI, SDS, SAB or anyone, or SMC, were to be understood – such a proposal that, with the two-thirds majority of Members, we could be another guardian to decide whether a referendum should take place or whether it agrees with it or not, I think it is contrary to what we wanted to achieve in 2013, when we reached a constitutional change, which is to exclude MEPs and state councillors from this story in order to be able to decide on this matter. In fact, we must not forget that at the time we did not just regulate the fact that we put four so-called anchors into the constitution, in which cases we should not decide at the referendum on certain issues, but we also said that Members and state councillors should not. These are two more articles — we are all talking about the 90th article today — which speak very clearly and who can no longer propose it. And now we are essentially through the side door – with all the good intentions that fellow Member Medved, former Minister, has also said and argued in his own way – I am spying on this – by bringing the Members back into the process where, in fact, you are – and beware of this – by a two-thirds majority. Which means nothing but that we can do it again – not LMŠ or any other option, but – whenever and in any case, someone abused this institution and said no at the last minute, we agree, we disagree Things must be clear in law and must be legally determined when and in any way. [[…]] Pika. Members are no longer in this story, except when it comes only to confirmation, but we have it now and the matter is also clearly regulated in what way. These are also arguments why I cannot support this amendment. I think I've argued hard enough, because we need to look at the whole picture of how it actually happened and what happened is that we're where we are today. However, I have made it very clear that I am proposing to the current Minister for Local Self-Government, if the truth is true and purpose is true – what some in your debates point out and say that the law must be fully resolved and tackled to eliminate any inconsistencies that the Constitutional Court also points out – that the Minister should immediately after this law has been adopted, and that all other solutions should also be regulated again in the Referendum Act and on the People's Initiative and put it into normal procedure. Because we're not gonna miss anything. And I'm sure by the end of the year, when the epidemic is long overdue, that's what I'm sure this procedure is also running out. Then we'll see, you'll see, watch who's holding the fig in his pocket. Because that's when we're about to find out a bunch of excuses that have actually been identical for the last six years. This is what I always say, and this is the most dangerous field, this mile, when politics with serious matter, the implementing act that we really need, starts to play and in some way also to buy and sell politically, in one way or another, who will survive more. I support the law, and I hope that it will be adopted as soon as possible, that we can go to another matter waiting for us, and that we can solve one part of the problem or, I will say, one third of the problem that should have been solved six years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u30	Thank you. The agenda of the debaters is set by the computer, but my debate will proceed nicely where Member Möderndorfer concluded the debate. For I was when this happened, the President of the Constitutional Commission, and I remember very well all the complications and complications and everything that happened at that time. My colleague Möderndorfer has already described a number of these things, and I would only add that the then referendum regime, as enshrined in the Constitution, has allowed not only, as has been said, to propose a 30-member referendum – which allowed any opposition or any group of Members who were interested in causing political instability to lead to this referendum, but not only that – the problem was that the constitution did not specify anywhere by which majority people should decide that this referendum will be exercised. So, theoretically, if three citizens came to the referendum and two voted in favour, this will of the citizens, three citizens, has overtaken some decision taken in the legislative process in the highest legislative body. This was, of course, an unsustainable situation, which, by the time the constitution changed, had already been politically exploited several times and caused a political crisis in the political crisis. Nevertheless, it took a very long and complex procedure with many of the compromises described, including a compromise with the fiscal rule, that the constitutional regime as we now have was then adopted. And as has been said many times, at the time it was also said, there is a need for an implementing law that will continue this constitutional decision in the sense that this is now being done. But here things get a little complicated for me. My colleague Möderndorfer said why he cannot support the two-thirds majority proposed by the LMŠ, and I strongly agree with this. But the problem stays the same. The Government, as it suggests, is also making a decision at the hands of Members with all the arguments put forward by colleague Möderndorfer. That is, after we have a constitutional decision determining in which cases in which types of laws the referendum is not possible, we are restoring the procedure to Members, who will now, by a simple majority, say whether it is true or not. That is to say, Members of the ordinary or two-thirds majority, to me this is really irrelevant, will go through the constitutional decision that we have taken after such a long process, so complex and with such a majority and with such compromises. And let's not forget, any change in the constitution requires a two-thirds majority, and it's what it was. What better solution could there be? A better solution for me would be what I mentioned last time at my coronation, it is said, after the veto procedure has been completed and so on, that, according to the usual procedure, as there is, the referendum's proposer would propose a referendum and then the National Assembly would decide whether this is possible and then decide on the Constitutional Court. We have previously included this filter of the National Assembly, and the amendment of the LMŠ, which was originally tabled, was completely contradictory. First of all, he was furious about expanding the field of applicants, those who could stop the referendum. Not only would they allow the Government here, but they would also allow the billmaker, the sending group, a group of at least ten Members and so on. It is said that not only do we have a restrictive constitutional decision, but we would also have more proponents to prevent a referendum. This was not acceptable to the SAB. And then in this same solution, but now only this second part remains, this conclusion is confirmed by a two-thirds majority. So the point of this amendment, I must say, I don't understand it myself. And this two-thirds majority remains questionable to me, especially because I do not understand the nature of the finding. What will this conclusion reveal? Yes, I know what we will do – that this is the law that the decision requires. But I'm saying, maybe the procedure could be reversed. However, the implementing law has been needed, we have waited for it for a long time, I might say for the viewers who are watching, in these four articles as proposed now – except for this dilemma, which may be entirely mine, and perhaps no one else is feeling it – is not problematic, so we will support the law itself in the Sab party, and we will not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I ask if there is still interest in the debate. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u32	Thank you. I'd just like to give you a few more explanations. I agree that the right to request a constitutional review and the right to a referendum are not equal, they are not, but Article 90 of the Constitution was amended in 2013 and it would be misleading for the public to claim that this is a restriction on the right to a referendum. With this amendment of the right to a referendum, we are in no way restricting it; it is merely operationalisation, as the honourable Member of the Medved said, what has already been adopted. So it is only an implementation arrangement that has already been adopted. Accordingly, I stress once again that we do not restrict the referendum initiatives to anyone, even if the Council of State renounces the right to veto and the National Assembly enforces the law immediately, every electorate, I repeat, has the possibility, within 15 days of the election of the law, to request a constitutional review of the law without proving or demonstrating legal interest. That is, I would say, a special safeguard of democratic standards. However, there is a regular situation that we must not forget – in accordance with Article 23rd of the Constitutional Court Act, a request for a constitutional assessment of a particular provision of an emergency law or an emergency law may be fully required by the National Assembly, a third of the Members, the Council of State, the Government, the Ombudsman, of course, if the regulation interferes with specific areas, the Information Officer, the representative union for the territory of the State for each activity or profession, if the rights of workers are compromised. Because the Member of the Left has expressed concern about the reduction of workers' rights. However, it is also crucial that the Constitutional Court may, before the final decision, fully or partially enforce or suspend the enforcement of a law or other provision or general act if its enforcement could result in severely remediable harmful consequences. This is Section 39 of the Constitutional Court Act. The fact is that in addition to the very broad democratic path where any voter can demand a constitutional judgement, this is still a general one. So, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Government, all these cauldrons are reason enough that, as Commissioner Möderndorfer said on the committee today, we will not give this toy back to the Members if you have decided in 2013 that it will not be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u33	Thank you. The word is from colleague Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u34	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I'm really going to be brief. It seems to me already on the basis of what has been said on the parental committee today that there is actually a waste of time at this meeting of the National Assembly when we are talking about why there has been no implementation of the so-called Article 90 of the Constitution so far. The fact is that this was not the case and that we have a chance to do so today. And for that, we need a two-thirds majority. And if the will is indeed in this national assembly, as I am hearing now from some parliamentary groups, that, otherwise, that provision of article 90 of the Constitution is to be enforced and regulated, then we now have the opportunity to do so. Here, of course, I am calling the LMŠ client, who is in fact constantly saying that they do not have any reservations in most cases, but that we would like some extra guards. These guards were pointless, we heard today. The first was already somehow – not only by Members and Members of Parliament, as far as the amendments that were on the home committee were concerned, it was also said by the Legislative and Legal Service that matters should be changed. That was also said. But let's just leave it. Today we have a new proposal at the meeting of the National Assembly again, and I do not agree here that we want something that we wanted to give away, then return. Look, there's a lot of guards. Those who do not see the guards in the fact that the National Assembly – of course, we must first make this decision, then have the chance to veto the State Council. If the veto is voted, the matter goes back to the National Assembly. In the end, any voter and electorate also have the opportunity to request an opinion on non-compliance with Article 90 of the Constitution. It's funny here now if anyone says that the fuse isn't enough. I think that the proposal is well prepared to solve some of the difficulties we have been in in this national assembly, and consequently our citizens and citizens are sorry. Because things can't be done because of the procedures themselves. But as I said this morning, you know, people don't care about procedures, they want to know how some help or some concrete solution is going to get to them as soon as possible. And that's essential. Therefore, it is also essential that we adopt this law today. If we really want to be good to citizens and citizens, we will. True, we need two-thirds, but here I believe in reason and goodwill, also to show our people that we care about them and that we are able to step together and solve some things as we need to. Of course, I believe anyone could look for another way, another way. It is also OK, it is right to discuss this, but that is the proposal, the two-thirds majority of the work force has been provided, which is a good sign. I hope and call on everyone now that, even in this national assembly today, by voting, we show that this is a step forward and that it is a certain part of the implementation of the constitutional provision. As has been said, it is not a complete solution as it should be, but I think that a glove has been thrown today, that if it is willing to settle, we have the opportunity to do so in further steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u35	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Tina Hefferle's.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I will be brief, too, but I had to respond to some of the previous discussions. We have never said in the LMŠ party that we oppose any harmonisation of legislation with the Constitution, and we do not object to it today. We welcome this amendment of the law, which will finally harmonise the text of the law after seven years and somehow adapt it to what we have adopted in the Constitution in 2013. However, as my colleague Rudy has already said, we have given a good warning about one thing, and it seems to me that we have not been clear enough about it or that we have not been able to understand it. The law, which provides or gives, defines the right for every citizen to give an initiative for a referendum, shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority of all present. If a law provides for and gives a right, and we take it away or restrict it with a smaller right than the law gives it, then it is incomprehensible to me. A little bit of stuff comes in the opposite direction. If you grant a right under certain conditions, you must also take it or limit it under certain or similar conditions. In this context, our proposal for an amendment was that the decision by which the National Assembly would vote that a law cannot be the subject of a referendum question should be voted on by a two-thirds majority of Members present, as is the vote on a law that actually defines that right. I think that makes perfect sense. It is not now about putting a decision back in the hands of Members, it is not about wanting to limit things any more now, because the decision, which will be voted by the general majority, will be voted by the Members, it is said, the tool will still be in the hands of 90 Members and Members. Our appeal, or our proposal for a two-thirds majority of the Members present, was given only as an additional guardian, but it would not be possible for the National Assembly to have this option after this amendment of the law – that it would decide by a simple majority, that some law would have such content that could not be the subject of a referendum question – that these rights of the National Assembly would not be abused. The coalition usually has this majority, the current has it, the previous has not, but usually has a coalition of these 46 votes guaranteed, so that in this light, however, I think such an amendment would be completely acceptable. Because if the content of the law is such that it is not suitable for a referendum question, believe that all Members are likely to vote in a reasonable manner and we will not abuse this right that we will have on the basis of this amendment of the law. Because it is also necessary to know — because you are so reiterating this abuse of the right of citizens to give referendum initiatives — it is also necessary to bear in mind the abuse that the Government will propose to vote on such a decision and that the ruling coalition will then simply vote on such a decision by a simple majority. There's that guard. In no other way did we want to block this novel today, which is adopted and harmonised by law with the Constitution. We will not oppose the law as such, but our appeal was well-intentioned, and I think it is very reasonable and very in the context of this – as I have already said – that this law, which establishes the right of the citizen to a referendum initiative, is adopted by a two-thirds majority of the Members present. And if we define this right by such a majority, I think we should limit it by such a majority. Not to limit it to a smaller majority. It doesn't make any sense here. Once again, the LMŠ does not oppose any harmonisation of laws with the Constitution; here we are very rational. In my opinion, however, this initiative was not only well-intentioned, but also the most vital in terms of expertise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Anyone else? I'm a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I listened attentively now to these various reasons, and I would agree. Otherwise, I'm afraid that what you're proposing in the LMSH with the amendment will not really save anything, that it's not a real security guard, but it's better than nothing. There's a guard better than anything else. It is interesting, however, how the coalition shakes the proposal of this amendment by the LMŠ party. I mean, if you have any honest intentions, I don't know what hurts so much. What is wrong with the two-thirds majority of Members and Members present on such key issues as the Billion Billion Laws? What? That's a really interesting question. Are we or aren't we the legislative body here? Are we or are we not representatives and representatives of the people? In such key matters, excuse me, one of the guards is absolutely necessary so that we do not then receive various sub-martials, as was the case before the day of Article 103 of the Mega Coronation Act, which is disputed. Which is constitutionally controversial, let's pour ourselves some pure wine. The 104th article was an even bigger disaster, and you fortunately withdrew it. But really, who are you really afraid of? You are afraid of citizens and citizens, as if there were someone here in Slovenia who would go to a referendum in the first place, unless something really was very critical. So you're afraid that maybe you'd see something critical in there and that it wouldn't be easy and that we should just get in touch with Members and Members so that the solutions that are in favour of citizens and citizens, through and those that are not in favour, right? As you see, increasing repression, limiting and interfering with human rights and beating all democratic standards achieved are, the fact is, this time, justified by the threat of the epidemic and are nicely, conveniently hidden among positive measures. We actually experienced this a few days ago and let's stop bluffing. Article 103 is exactly that — a plant that violates human rights. It's an attack on human rights. Therefore, once again I appeal to the opposition parties because I have already given up on the positions – not to forget the opposition party, the government needs you this time to bless today's proposal with an excuse to implement Article 90 of the Constitution. And this is the same party that in 2016 broke the amendment of the constitutional law that would implement Article 90 of the Constitution. That's really interesting. It's a very interesting situation to say. If you haven't figured out what was going on with the previous, first megapack, then wait for the second one, let's be surprised, but I'm afraid that they're in the next step, maybe again with some subset of type 103, on impact not only human rights, but worse. There are also labour rights at stake, social rights will be at stake, because we all know and realize that the recession will be, times will be difficult, but it would not be appropriate for all of this crisis to be borne on its shoulders again by those who are already in the most vulnerable position today. And what are you going to do? Either way, people will be cut off from the possibility of a referendum, you say they can go to the Constitutional Court – yes, yes. As if the Constitutional Court were in recent cases — let us look back at a few cases in recent years — what made a substantive decision. It's a simple blah blah blah, clean bluff. And so it is, my dears. What we are witnessing today, to this meekness, how it is necessary, even though it is not. Because you are very quick to take these measures, Members of the opposition and Members of the opposition, and we are cooperating and you have no problem with this. So stop dyeing the public with these various tricks to reach such a power position that the government will ultimately decide everything and afford in megapacks a variety of subsets of type 103. This 103rd article was a lesson. And we remembered this lesson very well, and in Levica we understand it very well. Really, opposition parties, think about it. The government needs you to bless today's proposal, and this is where it needs this two-thirds majority. From here on out, my dears, for all bad intervention measures, for all possible repressive measures, for human rights abuses, it will no longer need you. With this seemingly innocent change and when you say that article 90 of the Constitution is finally being implemented, you will in fact give to the Government everything it needs, and then it will no longer need you and that is it. That is why I propose that we support this proposal of the LMSH, which is at least one guardian, even though I fear it is not, but come on, better than nothing. Because if we don't do it, then yes, I don't know, respected and respected, whether we are aware of our mission here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. Mrs. Masha Kociper, do you have a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u40	I do not know if colleague Sukič has read the law and what this law allows, a constitutional assessment of the decision of the National Assembly and then the possibility of an immediate referendum, immediately after the decision of the Constitutional Court. But to defend the coalition, I am the opposition. In fact, I am calling on Ambassador Sukić to make sure that the opposition is smart. And when Levica opposes all the proposals that come to Parliament in these times of crisis and warns us day and night before the black entertainment of John Janša and before Janša eats and chews us all, I would like to remind again the same Levica, who now calls on the same opposition party to help us, for whom we no longer have a previous government, for whom the former government, which was not Jancist, did not have a majority in the National Assembly and could not decide. I was sitting here watching Levica constantly vote with the SDS party for two months or more. So, here's what Janez Janša and Janša would have if the Left party supported the coalition at the time, and no such terrible law that would now destroy democracy forever would have to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Perič also applied to the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Vice President. A nice greeting to everyone! Now that I’m listening to this, I can find out — nothing new. And I think that everyone or a large majority with me shares that opinion. Even though we are in a situation that is not envious, and that we are sharing this situation in fact all of us, globally, still find time and energy to ideologically or otherwise beat ourselves up and again look for some hair in the egg and who is more, who is less right, rather than focusing on the fact that both the Government and the National Assembly – I am not thinking about any political, ideological connotation or, if the coalition is such or different, but we are talking about an institution. Here we should have the institution, the institution of the National Assembly, the Government, the State Council, and the institution of the Constitution of Slovenia in the final stages. Even at the expense of this book or the contents of this book, we have heard a number of hard words today, and this is getting on my nerves — so that with the ease of all these institutions and institutions, we get on a daily basis, as we do at some point. Sometimes we like something and we say, well, that's great, it comes back the next day when we don't like some content, we'll say it sucks, that the Constitutional Court is biased. I've heard that in here, very loudly. Then that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are such that, I don't know, they're not acceptable to anyone, and then it suggests to us between the lines that why they should be respected, because the Constitutional Court is also biased. Then – I have heard this again today – that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is a compromise in certain parts, which means that even if we do not respect this, because it is a compromise which is still a rotten one, there will probably be no real harm. I have also heard in here that there is a social dialogue – even if the topic of this social dialogue should be a debate that is not convenient, it is simply said that this is a consequence, a relic of some neo-corporativeism, and we do not need to take this into account. And then what happened to us today – to find ourselves in some crisis situations, when we should put certain legislation into life as soon as possible, because this needs to be done by the country, because it needs citizens, because it needs businesses, public institutions, not to mention, and then we run back into some ideological walls, into some obstacles, and we figure out how we really don't know how to go through it. I see this measure, or this proposal, which came from the Government or the Ministry of Public Administration, as something that goes in the right direction to strengthen this institution, in particular in this situation, particularly Parliament. Because if we ensure that the adoption of legislation in Parliament is flexible enough and that we will be very flexible in these exceptional circumstances – not only in the Government, but also in the National Assembly, that we are not subject to any form of crisis, which we also have very well defined in the Constitution, but in these exceptional circumstances – not only in the Government, but also in the National Assembly, it means that the National Assembly in these times retains its influence and plays its role. Because, on the other hand, there are few countries around Europe or the world that have many examples of how this institution, which we have discussed today, has been eliminated precisely because the Government can be swift and take such measures, which are very fast-acting, which can respond very quickly to very rapidly changing circumstances. Therefore, the obstruction or failure of all these arguments that we have heard today – and I would understand if this proposal came from the sky, so that an idea in the government could become stronger and come with such a solution here today, but we have a basis and in the Constitution and in the decisions of the Constitutional Court, we had several proposals for laws that have already regulated this area in the National Assembly, and we have recently had a public debate about a new draft or a new one, but we still do not understand. It seems to us that everything is okay, as if everything counts, and as if we have more than enough time to start fixing all the problems that have arisen. Let me remind you that although there have been a lot of expectations from the public and in the final stage many well-founded critics on the first package, the anti-korona package, which has not covered all aspects, today we find again as if we are not in a hurry, as if we have more than enough time, and even when the second package comes, it will not be hasty again, because it can still be applied back. Then we can also accept this issue in December, and we can say that it will come into force in March, but people will find themselves, just as they know and know. So it thinks the level of such debates, even though they sound good or they are balanced – but the content is extremely disturbing because it does not respect all of these institutions that we represent. And if, on the one hand, we are talking about how we as a society are moving towards some authoritarianism and there are some fictitious arguments, on the other hand, when we can further strengthen the role of the National Assembly, especially in such critical moments, then we do not support this, it seems to be completely confused with all logic. I will, of course, support this proposal, which came from the Ministry of Public Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Now Mr. Minister has made a statement, and then he gets the word "mag." Branko Grimes. As far as I can see, there is still an interest in the debate, so I will then open the application.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u44	Thank you. I would just like to define myself to some extent that there must be some kind of guard. We listed, and the Legal and Legislative Service has confirmed this as to how many security guards we have today on the board. So that seems like a very flat-rate claim to me. But it is crucial and I will stress again, in 2013, you have amended the Constitution. I think it's finally time to respect it, to respect the legality, to accept this novelty. With regard to the claim that the second package will strike the most vulnerable group. Yesterday I sat with the unions, and I am sorry that this obviously did not reach the public or all the parties — their calls were not to wait. The calls made by workers and espies were to find a way to implement these measures as quickly as possible. So I'd say someone wasn't listening enough to that public he's referring to. We in the government and in most opposition parties are obviously hearing these calls from citizens and citizens. And, as it is said, it is not a mechanism available to this government, it is a mechanism available to any government in these circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u45	Thank you very much. But now that it's still an interest in the debate, I'm opening the application. Please sign in. Two reported discussers. First he gets the word, Mr Branko Grims, then Mrs Natasa Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! The first thing to stress is that these last days, when we listen very highly to words about totalitarianism and the like, of course they have no basis. On the contrary, everything that we are doing today, exactly what is being proposed today, which we are dealing with, has one purpose: to allow Parliament, as a basicly democratically elected plural body, to operate normally in these situations, which we are now witnessing because of a pandemic that is practically present everywhere. In Slovenia we took it well because of the combination of the right measures at the last minute and, of course, the cooperation of people. However, Parliament must be able to respond appropriately in any situation. That is why these proposals are appropriate, they are good, I support them. No additional complication is needed in order to incorporate some additional safeguards that in practice would prove to be more than an obstacle into the text that has been prepared on the Committee and is entirely appropriate. The second thing to say is, see, the Constitution binds everything and everyone. The Constitution is what it is. Personally, I would be very happy if the arrangements in the field of the referendum were different, and all those who have comments this morning, I have told you on the committee, go in the direction of the Swiss regime of the referendum, if you collect an appropriate number of signatures or votes for a change, so that we can change the constitution, I will gladly support this. This is what I always advocate, the Swiss model means that the people have the first and last words, but the referendum procedures are completely separate from the proceedings in Parliament and therefore cannot be delayed, as we have once witnessed in the past. And in a small part, the current work still burdens us, which is why we are talking today about what we are talking about. So, if that's an option, let's go this way, but this is a matter of procedure. As long as the Constitution is as it is, it must be realized. And to talk about the urgency of accepting something that should have been adopted five years ago and for which there is even a decision of the Constitutional Court, which has not been carried out within the time limit set by the Constitutional Court, is unserious. Today it is a matter of circumstances where, one day, measures for the benefit of concrete people who are in distress when measures for the benefit of concrete entrepreneurs, firms in difficulty, are extremely valuable. He knows himself every day. Every day that we save today when taking these measures can be paid to us for weeks, months or even years after we face an economic recession that will be global and which will result from the current pandemic and will be very severe. As a result, these measures are worth taking, and as a result, all the concerns that have been expressed here today are mildly exaggerated.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mrs. Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, you say it should have been adopted five years ago – because then I don't know why the SDS party was the one who made sure it wasn't adopted in 2016. I've already discussed this on the committee today, and I'm not going to do it again. Mainly, citizens and citizens, I hope that at least you will hear because here in this national assembly Members and Members do not hear me. It is not about compliance with the Constitution, as the government and even the opposition convince the public. The Constitution already provides for the implementation of the amendment of Article 90 of the Constitution. It therefore lays down rules that will apply until a different regime in the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative. However, the Constitution does not determine what we must set out in the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, and that is what is essential. I repeat, it does not define the constitution as to what we must set out in the Law on the Referendum and on the Human Initiative. The Constitution therefore does not provide that the regulation must be such that the Government can, under an imaginary argument, declare the necessary solutions immediately and the decision of the Constitutional Court will not be known until 45 days. Nor does the Constitution provide that we should not adopt the amendment proposal as proposed by the LMSH party. All of this is permissible for us to introduce into the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, all of which makes it possible for us to do so in article 90 of the Constitution. So please stop deceiving the Slovenian public as to how to comply with the Constitution, because this is simply not true. Those of you who are the most taken here today to make sure that there is harmonisation and a need for harmonisation, those you have been delaying all these years and you have not made sure that implementation is implemented – now at once and overnight. And what are we worried about here? I said, a few days ago, you planted article 103 in a mega-law that was aimed at the good of people, but no, you couldn't help yourself not to touch that article. This is the problem with these mega-legislatures of yours, and therefore we need to support the amendment of the LMSH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] If not, I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendment immediately after the conclusion of the debate on item 2, so I am terminating this item on the agenda. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is a second defence proposal for amendments and additions to the Parliamentary Chamber. The draft amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure were tabled by the Group of 81 Members and Members with first-signed Igor Zorčič. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the proposalr, Mr Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues! Our daily routine has been preparing to deal with the new coronavirus for a few weeks. A number of measures have already been taken to combat the epidemic, many of which have intervened in a stable way. This was followed by the National Assembly. Thus, the College of the President of the National Assembly shall meet on 16. 3. 2020 decided not to hold regular meetings of the National Assembly in March and April, to postpone certain meetings of working bodies and other planned events, to adapt the conditions for the work of the media, to cancel all visits, and otherwise to implement various other self-protection measures. We are in the middle of an epidemic that is not yet known when it will be over. The epidemic does not spare anyone, many people have died as a result of the virus, so it is all the more important to ensure that the National Assembly addresses all further measures necessary to deal with the consequences of the coronary virus in a timely manner. In response to the challenges of this time, a revision of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has also been prepared, which will be decided today. The rules of procedure currently in force to deal with and decide on matters under its jurisdiction provide for an exclusive physical presence of Members. As a legislative and supreme representative body, the National Assembly cannot delegate its powers to another body, the only exception being to a state of war or emergency. If, in this case, the National Assembly cannot meet, the decision on the matters referred to in Article 92(1) and (2) of the Constitution shall be passed on to the President of the Republic. But despite this constitutional arrangement and therefore the possible suspension of the work of the National Assembly, which could take place in the event of the declaration of an emergency, I am convinced that, regardless of how difficult this epidemic is for the functioning of the State and how dangerous it can be, between us, the majority of us Members, the politicians who are thinking in the direction that even in such a case the State Assembly can meet and take place at a distance. It takes into account the constitutional elements of the functioning of the National Assembly and the possible occurrence of circumstances when it is not an emergency or a war situation, but, however, the holding of a meeting with personally present Members poses a risk to the health and safety of Members or other participants in the meeting, and this is necessary in view of the decision-making that cannot be postponed, and has therefore joined in the drafting of the amendment proposal and the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Given that we are witnessing the development of technology that allows communication in remote audio and video technologies, many institutions have already benefited from this option. The accessions of other parliaments in the majority thus go in the direction of adaptation, both by holding remote meetings using information and communication technology, for example in the European Parliament, as well as by reducing, for example, the necessary quorum for the current decision-making by up to half to one quarter of Members, for example, in Germany, the Federal Parliament. The proposed amendment of the Rules of Procedure thus lays the legal basis for meetings of the National Assembly and the working bodies to be held at a distance where the required physical presence of Members at meetings could become difficult or impossible in the event of an epidemic. This is followed by ensuring the safety and health of Members, including other staff, as well as the exercise of the constitutional and legal powers of the National Assembly and the organisation of its work in a way that will enable the smooth, efficient and responsive work of Parliament. At the same time, the fundamental principles of parliamentaryism, such as the right to unhindered and free debate, the right of Members to participate, the public decision-making of Members and the public of other meetings, are respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed by the Commission for Rules of Procedure and I give the floor to the president of mags to present the report to the Commission. Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The Rules of Procedure Commission shall meet at its 5th urgent meeting, on 7. 4. 2020 as a parent working body considered the proposal for amendments and the Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which was examined by the National Assembly following a reduced procedure on 3. 4. 2020 was submitted by the Group of Members and Members with the first signed Igor Zorčič. In accordance with Article 94 of the Constitution, the National Assembly shall have rules of procedure, which shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority vote of the Members present. In accordance with Rule 170 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly of Rules of Procedure and its amendments and additions shall adopt mutatis mutandis in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure for the adoption of the law. Members and members of the Commission also received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 6. 4. 2020. Within the deadline of business, the amendments, both under Article 3, were tabled to the left-wing group and to the LMŠ. Members and members of the Commission also considered proposals for amendments to the Commission, namely Articles 1, 2 and 3, which they received on e-Clop. Mr Zorčič, representative of the proposer, briefly presented the reasons for the adoption, objectives and main solutions to the proposed amendments and additions. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the written opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. It highlighted the general comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and some specific comments on the proposed article. She also stressed that some of the proposals for amendments to the Commission followed the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. In the debate, the members and members of the Commission presented their views and expressed their support to the proposed solutions, but also expressed their individual concerns, which were subsequently eliminated by appropriate amendments to the text of the amendments to the Commission's amendments. After discussion, the Commission voted and adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure, with the necessary two-thirds majority of the votes cast by the Members present, on the basis of Article 131(8) of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission also voted on the amendment tabled by the Group of Ambassadors to Article 3, which it did not accept, whereas the amendment tabled to the same article tabled by the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Sarca did not vote because it was withdrawn. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission voted together on all articles of the proposal and adopted them with the required two-thirds majority vote of the members present. In the light of the amendments adopted by the Commission, in conjunction with Article 133, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended Draft Amendment and the Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which are incorporated into the amendments of the Commission, has been prepared. However, the proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Blaž Pavlin is given the floor to present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! In Novi Slovenija we support today's Draft Amendments and Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which, following the example of some countries and the European Parliament, gives the opportunity to hold meetings of the assembly and working bodies at a distance using information technology. The aim of the amendments and additions is to enable the functioning of the National Assembly in exceptional circumstances, such as natural disasters, other worse disasters than now that we have a declared epidemic and that the physical presence at meetings due to the coronavirus could become problematic, as it could endanger the health and life of Members as well as the employees of the National Assembly. The amendment of the Rules of Procedure allows for a smooth and free debate and participation of Members in public decision-making. In our parliamentary group, we support the proposed record, which does not specify the exact technical solutions to the technique that we will use in our work, because due to the rapid development of the technique it can quickly wear off. Given that a two-thirds college of the President of Parliament will decide to convene a remote meeting, we do not see any fear in our Group that anyone would use that definition of rules of procedure. At the same time, changes bring adaptation to technical options and ensure proper respect for democratic principles, irrespective of exceptional circumstances. Members of the NS will support the proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Vojko Starović will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Madam President. All in attendance, all in attendance! The main reason for today's consideration of the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is to ensure the work of the highest authority in the country, that is Parliament, even in the event of a natural or other serious accident, including this current epidemic. In view of the epidemic we are currently facing, Members may also be infected. As a result, more Members should remain in isolation due to contacts with the infected. This would make it impossible to be physically present and Article 86 of the Constitution stipulates that there must be a physical presence, most of them. Otherwise, Article 92 of the Constitution provides that, in the event of an emergency where a State assembly cannot meet, the President of the Republic shall assume the legislator's office. On the basis of the Constitution, the President shall be empowered to decide on the declaration of war and state of emergency, on the urgent measures and their abolition and on the use of the defence forces. With the help of new technologies and the proposed changes that we have on the table today, Parliament is allowed to act smoothly and thus to make decisions in situations where it is not physically possible to meet. We agreed on this today on the Rules of Procedure Commission. We were guided by the desire and belief that Parliament can and must work in difficult situations if possible. Parliament, which is composed of elected representatives of the people, is here to represent the will of the people, not to rule the unanimity, that different views of the truth and even conflicting opinions meet here, save and harmonise democratically and not forcefully. Despite the conflict and confusion brought about by the democratic process, the democratic path has so far proved to be the best way to achieve more balanced policies and decisions in society. To reiterate, the National Assembly, as a directly-loved representative body, gives legitimacy to the most important legal acts and decisions in the country, therefore it is of utmost importance that, despite the exceptional state of the art of finding that the National Assembly cannot meet, it is not taken blindly. It is true that we have guardians in the constitution, as has already been said, in the President of the Republic, but as such he cannot provide the representation of a wider society than Parliament has guaranteed. Therefore, such a transfer of power must only be an extremely extreme solution. The main purpose of the revision of the Rules of Procedure is therefore to provide a legal basis for the implementation of the meetings and working bodies of the National Assembly at a distance. The Rules of Procedure are a basic act of the National Assembly on how to operate, and provisions should therefore also be included to define the conditions and the implementation of distance meetings. The proposal provides for remote meetings by means of communication and information technology, and decisions on the implementation of such meetings will be taken by the College of the President of the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority. This will also determine the course of the sitting, the hands, the time for discussion and so on. Remote sessions will be carried out using newer technologies in a way that allows for the transfer of images and sounds. This technology has proven appropriate at various video conferences and should therefore be used when it is not possible to ensure a direct presence. In the SAB Group, we welcome the bill because we believe that Parliament's work in a democratic society must be ensured regardless of the situation. Although we had a few comments that were taken into account. Above all, we are pleased that a decision has been taken at the meeting of the Rules of Procedure Commission in order to allow for the participation of non-members of working bodies in the event of a remote working body meeting. We will therefore support the proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the SAB Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At such a pace, when we are forced to adapt to a completely different way of life every day today, when, in an urgent and extremely rapid procedure, we take various measures when we have to adapt virtually every segment of our lives and activities, both personal, service and social, to the extraordinary circumstances and circumstances that have hit our country, we have not yet been a witness. The rapid, effective and consistent response of each individual is needed, and this must also be adapted to the functioning of all state authorities and other institutions, including the National Assembly. As a result, the text of the draft amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides a legal basis for the activities of the legislative body, also in exceptional circumstances, was rapidly drafted. This is the possibility of the Council of State operating at a distance if, in exceptional circumstances, the holding of a meeting with the personal presence of Members poses a risk to the health and safety of Members and the meeting is necessary because of decisions which cannot be postponed. In the Desus Group we are signatories to this proposal, because we support the determination of the way in which the National Assembly works, of course under certain conditions, even remotely. We believe that this is more than necessary today. Otherwise, we may find ourselves in a situation where, due to exceptional circumstances, the National Assembly, as a legislative body, could not meet, could not be operational, resulting in the necessity of the activation of Article 92 of the Constitution. The latter means the transfer of powers in urgent matters to the President of the Republic of Slovenia, who may, on a proposal from the Government, issue a regulation with legal power. But how will the distance meeting itself, when and if it comes to it, actually take place, is another issue. The fact is, the National Assembly is a number of college bodies. The meetings themselves, both the working bodies and the entire congregation, are further cared for by a number of employees. I believe that this moment none of us can imagine how this will happen. We already have a number of questions. How do I determine the identity of the Member? How are we going to put in the amendments? How will we monitor the content of the documents submitted and at the same time discuss others? Will we, and in what way, receive professional support? How are we going to get clarifications from ministries, governments, law enforcement? How will the meeting be conducted? And so on. Not to mention any problems with Internet connection failures. Nevertheless, in the Desus Group, it is imperative that the National Assembly remain operational and it is necessary to establish a legal basis for holding distance meetings if the actual situation requires such a functioning of the legislative body. We all know that there is still a whole range of measures ahead of us that we will have to take at the legal level to contain and mitigate the consequences of the epidemic, as well as a whole series of corrections to the measures already taken. Today, this proposal has been addressed by the Rules of Procedure Commission and I am pleased to say that this time the policy has found a common language and almost unanimously supported the proposal. I believe that the proposal will also receive extremely high support at the meeting. The Ambassadors of Desus unanimously support him and add: we sincerely hope that the emergency situation will calm down in a short time, that we will return to the established lifelines as soon as possible with the mildest possible consequences of this epidemic, and that the situation will not require legislative decision on the distance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Victory Jelinčič The nobles will present the position of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u60	Thank you very much. The revision of the Rules of Procedure makes it possible to operate in situations which, I would say, are uncontrollable, so I think it is good that we take these decisions in stock, although I hope and I think we will not need this system. The fact is that the invasion of covida-19 is decreasing, the matter is being put in order, and even the latest findings of scientists show that this strain of influenza virus is not as dangerous as one would think. But if we stick to this change in the rules of procedure, I think it makes sense that we have done so to prevent the possible flaw in this systemic solution if there is a need for us to vote in this way. It has been said that some have wondered how this will be done, but I think it will be enough time for technical matters to be settled, so that the techniques needed to be carried out in this way may be handled later. Technology is moving forward, the resolution of system connections will no longer be problematic and this solution will be easier to implement every day. In fact, the problems are other, even with this virus, in fact, ideas that are dangerous for this dangerous matter, which is to some extent dangerous, and not to some extent dangerous. After all, if we look at it, I think that 42 people died after the Corona virus today in Slovenia, and last year more than 100 died in the flu. So, according to the media treatment of all of this together, we can see that if the coronary virus is defeated, no one will die in Slovenia, because every death is attributed to the coronary virus, but if we look at the papers of these patients who died because of it, I would say, the coronary virus, and we can see that the disease with the other disease signs was the one that put the human being in the grave, and in fact this is just one supplement, and the ordinary flu could have done the same thing. It is important to be careful that this action is not an excuse for shutting down cash transactions, for this is one of the ideas. Then we need to be careful that the removal of privacy does not result in one complete control of the population, and we need to be careful that it does not lead to the destruction of families and the cutting up of family ties except within close families. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support this amendment and the completion of the Rules of Procedure. The warnings I have just given, however, I think it would be reasonable to review, think about and act in such a way that these bad ideas are not allowed or prevented after a while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u62	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and coworkers, all of them have a nice greeting! In the SDS Group, we welcome and support the changes to the rules of procedure that are before us today, in order to establish a legal basis for the meetings of the National Assembly and the working bodies at a distance. At the same time, in the SDS – and I hope that everyone here too – we hope that this will not happen at all. If it ever comes, we hope it doesn't come in the next few days, weeks or months because of the so-called coronary virus, because we know what would happen next. Then article 92 of the Constitution should be activated and all matters should be decided by the President of the Republic and we do not want to do so. Therefore, in the SDS Group last week, we hope that you have given a good understanding of the address given by the President of the Government, who warned us that at present the National Assembly, through its Rules of Procedure, has no mechanisms so that in the event of natural or other serious accidents, as is now the case in this draft Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly would act without endangering the health or safety of Members. Therefore, in the Group of Members, once again, we support and welcome this proposal for a new Rules of Procedure, and we believe that, in the second paragraph of this Article, it also has a sufficient safeguard to ensure that this measure, namely taking responsibility for its deliberations and not least for our conclusions, would not be exploited by distance meetings. Because the college must decide on the existence of these exceptional circumstances and the decision is taken if the proposal is supported by the leaders of the parliamentary groups, whose members represent at least two thirds of all Members in the National Assembly. In short, if you've listened to the previous law on the fuse, there's a lot of security here in the rules of procedure. There is no greater majority in the National Assembly than the two-thirds majority of all Members to decide on a particular matter. Even in the SDS Group, we have some doubts as to what, if any, this vote will look technically like, despite the fact that it is partially written in the amended Rules of Procedure. Internet connections in Slovenia may not work because of a natural or other serious accident – what then? What about professional services that are often an invisible part of the functioning of the National Assembly and that we forget too often? And I believe that, even at this point, at least as many Members here in the Chamber as we are in the Chamber, professional colleagues in the parliamentary groups, or in other working bodies or other services of the National Assembly, are concerned that we can do our work in a serious and quality manner. Also, as to how to vote, whether by voting devices or by pronouncing or raising cards or by any other agreed means, we believe that when the National Assembly is ever forced to do so, as it is today on the Committee, we will make a wise decision by consensus and without too much politics. Once again, in the SDS Group, we welcome this amendment of the Rules of Procedure and hope that it has been adopted only in case we will never be able to activate or hope to activate it. For this would mean an even greater catastrophe than that in which we are now; for it would be an example of a natural or other worse disaster. Or if you want, if people do not act conscientiously in dealing with the Coronavirus in the coming days, it can happen that any member of this disease will also be affected, and if the National Assembly goes into quarantine, the regular functioning of the National Assembly is disabled, and, as it is said, we must leave it to the President of the Republic to decide, and this as a parliamentary democracy, I hope, we will not allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc will be presented by Tina Heferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u64	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the LMŠ Group, we believe that the amendment to the rules of procedure that we are considering and adopting today makes sense. In particular, it makes sense for us to protect the position of the National Assembly as an institution and as a legislative body even when it cannot work in a stable manner because of some exceptional circumstances. On the one hand, the amendment of the Rules of Procedure dictated the situation in which we were in the wake of the covida-19 epidemic and, on the other hand, by considering the revision of the Rules of Procedure, we rushed past all business deadlines also due to the not-so-quiet and vague warnings of the President of the Government when he announced last week that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had already discussed the proposal that the powers of the National Assembly should be transferred to the Government. We have expressed resentment over the last week, and we also express it today. Otherwise, we have tried to upgrade the draft amendments prepared by the coalition in the LMŠ Group with a proposal for an amendment which, in the light of the objectives and purposes set out by the proposal, would specify more precisely the situations in which the reference to a remote meeting would be permissible. In this way, we wanted to further safeguard the potential overuse of the new institute of the sitting at a distance, and we also followed the Legislative and Legal Service, which also expressed concerns about the widest possible dictatorship in this article. In the light of our warning, agreement was reached on the Rules of Procedure Commission to narrow this article, and we are pleased that a constructive debate, together with the coalition Members, has reached agreement to amend this Article, which has followed our amendment. Finally, in the LMŠ Group, we have always advocated that the reasons for the remote meeting should be justified and that they should be identified separately for each individual meeting. The proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure follow and we hope that the provisions relating to these fuses will also be consistently respected when and if their application takes place. Similarly, we were convinced by the regulation of voting in a college with a two-thirds majority of the representatives of the parliamentary groups. So these two guardians are a wedding for us, so that we can now trust that the new distance meeting arrangements will apply in truly exceptional circumstances and only when this proportionate and urgent action is needed to ensure the smooth and full operational functioning of the National Assembly. In the LMŠ Group we actively and constructively participated in the preparation of amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all in order that even during the epidemic, if necessary, the National Assembly may operate smoothly. The proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure will therefore be unanimously supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u66	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, it is very clear: if we were not in this state, if the epidemic had not been declared, the Social Democrats would never have changed the rules of procedure, not in time and not in substance. However, this Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are essentially introducing and further regulating the additional possibility of the functioning of the National Assembly, by means of a remote meeting. In such meetings, it is envisaged that a part of the Members, through information technology allowing discussion and voting, would participate outside the National Assembly. In what cases could such a meeting take place? Such exceptional circumstances must be provided that meetings may not be convened in the National Assembly or outside the seat of the National Assembly. This is therefore an exceptional situation, such as a worse natural disaster or a very rapidly uncontrollable spread of a dangerous form of disease infection. I hope that such extreme circumstances will not occur and we will not have a remote meeting at all. We will be following the direction of the Social Democrats here that the National Assembly and its working bodies must meet properly in suitable places for this, whether at or outside the National Assembly. We simply do not want a remote session, so this form of action for us is an extreme option that we would only enforce if there were no other options and would be so practically confronted with the need to declare an emergency. However, when the state of emergency is declared, we know that the National Assembly is actually suspended from decision-making. Of course we don't want that. The proposed Rules of Procedure provide that each meeting of the National Assembly or its working body shall be decided by the College of the President of the National Assembly, with the support of the leaders of the parliamentary groups whose members shall represent at least two thirds of all Members of the National Assembly. We believe in the party that such meetings may not be if the disease of an individual Member or a few of them is concerned, but that a distance meeting could be justified in the event of an expertly justified decision by the competent authority that a larger number of Members or an entire parliamentary group for preventive health reasons should remain in isolation and may not or may not come to the National Assembly for physical reasons. Therefore, before any decision at the College of the President of the National Assembly on the possible holding of a meeting of the National Assembly at a distance from the Social Democrat, we will assess the circumstances in question relatively strictly, but also realistically. We are also aware of fully legitimate warnings that a remote meeting of the National Assembly will not allow all Members and Members of Parliament equal opportunities to participate in the meeting. Those Members and Members who participate in meetings of the National Assembly or meetings of the working body through information and communication technology will undoubtedly be in a worse position than those who will participate in the meetings at the Assembly premises. But then this needs to be taken as a lease. However, the possible distance meeting will also present a significant implementation challenge, not only in technical terms, but also in consistent respect for constitutional and business provisions, particularly when it comes to the issue of permissible interference with the implementation of the mandate. However, as I have already said, each meeting of the College will be decided by it in a realistic, professional and non-political manner. We will support this revision of the Rules of Procedure and hope that these articles will never be activated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Ms Mateja Udovč will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u68	Your Honor! In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre we will support the Draft Amendments and Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amendments will ensure the continuous performance of the mission and maintain active parliamentary activity during the covida-19 epidemic. We also believe that we must follow the call of the President of the European Parliament, David Sassoli, that parliaments must remain and that no one should have this pandemic in order to undermine our freedoms. Only then will democracy remain intact at the end of the epidemic. In the parliamentary group, we will therefore support any amendment to the legal rules that will allow for the activity of the National Assembly until the end of this epidemic. We certainly do not agree to the introduction of an emergency situation and do not want to play with the scenario for its introduction, as we are witnessing in the neighbourhood. These developments have also been strongly condemned by the European Commission and 16 Member States of the European Union. Unfortunately, Slovenia is not among them. According to our assessment, without declaring an emergency, we also have all the necessary tools or legal bases to deal with the Coronavirus epidemic. The Law on Infectious Diseases already allows restrictions on certain rights protected by the Constitution, such as freedom of movement, restrictions on movement to the municipality of residence, the introduction of isolation or quarantine, the right to assembly, the prohibition of the collection of more than five persons on public surfaces and so on. These emergency situations, which are now ongoing due to the Coronavirus epidemic, cannot be equated with the state of emergency proposed by the Government and accepted by the National Assembly. The declaration of an emergency is the extreme measure to be applied in the event that the existence of a State and all its social subsystems would be fully compromised. The proposed amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure are a measure whereby, in such exceptional circumstances as the covida-19 epidemic, an organisation and working method can be established to allow for the smooth functioning of the National Assembly. Thus, the meetings of the National Assembly and the working bodies can also be held at a distance using information and communication technology. The National Assembly shall exercise its powers in accordance with the rules laid down in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. However, the rules of procedure in force do not have specific provisions on distance or remote voting meetings. The current provisions of the Rules of Procedure require physical presence and voting both at working-body meetings and at plenary meetings. In doing so, we would like to point out that the National Assembly is the only representative body in a country which does not have the option of deciding in its Rules of Procedure at written meetings. These provisions shall be laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Council of State and of the Municipal Councils. At this particular time, the municipal councils shall take exceptional measures to deal with the Corona virus epidemic and shall decide on current matters. The possibility of decision-making at the written meetings is also open to the executive branch of the authorities, i.e. the Government which often uses this method of decision-making, irrespective of the circumstances or the situation. However, despite these options, the President of the National Assembly did not decide to establish an institute of correspondence. The current proposal follows the model of the European Parliament, which is 26. 3. 2020 confirmed by remote voting three extraordinary measures to combat the pandemic of coronavirus. Why? Because the written meeting does not allow for an uninterrupted and free debate and would also go too far into the basic rules of the legislative process, thereby undermining to some extent the high democratic standards. In addition, it allows key stakeholders to participate in the legislative process. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we believe that the President of the National Assembly has given the best possible solution, following the fundamental principles of parliamentaryism, so we will support the proposal. At the same time, we note that, in the context of the consideration of this proposal, in foreign comparative arrangements, we have observed that some countries have a long-distance vote only in cases of pregnancy, maternity or paternity leave or serious illness that prevents a Member from participating in meetings. In view of the fact that the National Assembly has adopted the Law on the National Assembly in this mandate and that it has decided at that time not to regulate the cases mentioned in the law, it would be appropriate to consider that, after the end of this epidemic, we should also approach this issue in the Rules of Procedure. Of course, there is also the possibility of replacing Members or Members during the duration of these personal circumstances, as originally thought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will be presented as the last position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u70	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! During the weekend, he had an interview on the MMC RTV Slovenia portal with Dr. Ihan, who said: “We will not simply shake against ourselves as the dog shakes the water when it swims ashore.” I agree with this quote twice. For the first time in health terms, because it is clear that the quarantine virus will not disappear, it will not disappear within three, four weeks, but it will be with us for quite some time, and, as Mr Ihan points out, we will have to get used to living with it. And the fact that the measures we take in the crisis will not be as stressful with ourselves as the dog shakes the water when it floods the coast is also valid in a political sense. The measures we are now taking will be with us and will remain with us. The amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which we will decide immediately in my position, will be recorded in this Anderlik's Rules of Procedure, an 18-year-old document adopted in 2002, and will not only apply to this crisis but will continue. Therefore, in Levica, both at the College and today at the Rules of Procedure Committee, we have very clearly pointed out that things need to be clearly defined, clearly recorded and clearly limited when their use is permitted. Indeed, Parliament will act in a very trifling sense when it meets at these written meetings, which will now be possible. The expert public will not be able to participate in the meetings of the working bodies, the interested public will not be able to participate, Members who are not members of the working bodies will not be able to debate there, Members will be deprived of the right that one-fifth of the Members oppose the College's decisions, the opposition will not be able to call meetings, because only those things that are at the plenary session of the National Assembly will be discussed and so on. In short, it is very clear when and under what conditions this can be applied, with our main criticism, and the amendment that we have proposed that this should not apply in general, as proposed at first. It has been said, I quote, that distance meetings may be convened "in the event of a natural or other serious accident or other exceptional circumstances" and it is not clear what is the other emergency or a worse accident and that this must be very clearly limited. Our proposal was to write "on the epidemic" very strictly. The motioner replied that these were conspiracy theories, although I did not incite anyone to do anything, I simply said that things were too undefined and that they left open opportunities, too open opportunities for any two-thirds coalition in the National Assembly to play such a clause. That was my warning. Well, when the camera went out, it turned out that the warning wasn't so out of place. One of the members of the ruling coalition was when we coordinated the dictatorship without cameras and microphones and talked about whether the provision “and other extraordinary circumstances” were deleted, he said, “But what if 20,000 people protested before Parliament?” So this is also another extraordinary circumstance under which the Members should obviously stay at home and decide from the couch where they will take 100 million, where they will cut out the social state or how they will limit freedoms and rights. Look, I'm surprised that I'm in a position where I have to teach conservatives about responsibility, but it's like Nassim Taleb said: "If you're not in a position to risk your own skin, then don't be in this thing. If you make decisions that affect other people, but you are not prepared to face the consequences, do not satisfy the minimum moral imperative of responsibility." You cannot decide at home from the couch where 100 million euros will go, while there are 20,000 people in the Republic market who are obviously dissatisfied with such a measure. This is disputed by any logic of responsibility. I am pleased that at least this second dictatorship has now been said to be "or other extraordinary circumstances", deleted because of the opposition's pressures, but the matter remains rather misplaced, so we will abstain in this vote in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u71	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments were tabled in the second reading to the updated proposal for amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, I conclude the second reading. The decision on the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will continue immediately after the end of the vote on paragraph 1. That's what I'm breaking up with. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. I'm informing you that we're going to vote first on the 1st, then on the 2nd. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplementation to the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative in the framework of the urgent procedure. We shall proceed with the decision on the amendment tabled, which shall be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 4. 2020. Before taking a decision, I inform you that the amendment in accordance with Article 90, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia will be adopted if two thirds of the Members present vote for it. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 2. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 48. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill, which is the decision on the bill. I am not informed that the proposal would be inconsistent. I inform you that, in accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the law will be adopted if two thirds of the Members present vote for it. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 87 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 8. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Amendments and the Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the context of the reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled in the second reading to the updated proposal for amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, we are moving on to a decision. I was also not informed that the proposal would be inconsistent. At the same time, I would like to point out that, in accordance with Article 94 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, two thirds of the Members present must vote in order to adopt amendments and to supplement the Rules of Procedure. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 87 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is on a defensive proposal for a decision on the implementation of the Slovenian military’s exceptional powers in the wider protection of the state’s borders. With regard to this point of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus, they propose that, pursuant to Article 74(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the discussion of the draft decision be postponed to one of the next meetings of the assembly. Would you like a representative of the proposer? No, no, no. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Yeah. Comrade Matthew T. Vatovec for the Group of the Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u72	Thank you very much, President. In Levi, we consider this proposal to be the least out of the ordinary, if I may say so. Given the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and also the parliamentary practice that has emerged in these almost two decades, it is clear that today we should only take a brief look at the views of the members of the groups on the proposal for a decision proposed by the Government, because this proposal for a decision was rejected by the home committee. So I don't understand this maneuvering of the ruling coalition by moving this session. I think that a story with the disputed allocation of police powers to an army for which you do not have a two-thirds majority in this National Assembly is unnecessary. We can end this story today, we will not vote, you have already put it on the agenda. I do not think that the debate should be necessary or allowed in this study. Last but not least, if the mother's working body rejected the proposal, then the National Assembly is aware that the procedure has been completed. So from this point of view, I might ask here to explain to the coalition parties why this motion for a transfer. I do not know whether you are counting on yet somehow trying to bypass the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and to force further consideration of this point to vote on this, although it is clear by the Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Practice that this vote cannot be, or you do not want to lose a little, I will say, lifetime for this topic today and rather put it on another term. I do not see any valid reason for this point to move or move to a later date, but I would like some clear explanation from the applicants as to why this move or transfer is proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr Brana Golubović has the floor on behalf of the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u74	Thank you very much. In the LMŠ Group, we are really surprised that the coalition is proposing a postponement of the debate on something which, in view of the Committee's decision, no longer exists and the legislative procedure on this matter has been completed, since the decision has not been voted on. So this delay really surprises us. However, if I paraphrase the President of the Government, we have not frozen on a coalition space ship, and there is no reason why the activation of Article 37a, which was unnecessary at this moment, but certainly insufficiently substantiated, would not end today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Han on behalf of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u76	Thank you very much. My dear coalition, this silence, or that you are silent about why you made this maneuver, has a purpose. However, the fact is that we have thanks to God in the National Assembly for the rules of procedure, which we must respect, regardless of the majority of which coalition or opposition has. At least this morning we agreed. And this policy – I know what you're after – doesn't allow you to do that. The fact is that you have issued a 15-day deadline, which is important for the emergency meeting, and you have only extended it with this postponement. We have to end this meeting, but we end it only in such a way that each parliamentary group has to express its position and the meeting is closed. The fact that we are having a debate on this point is already debated. Of course, you have the opportunity to table legislation over and over again, but until this agenda item is concluded, you cannot start a new meeting. And now, what's gonna happen? Given that we have an epidemic, and given that the world is collapsing, at least this is how you explain it, we will have to come to the National Assembly once again and talk about this Article 37.a and not vote. Because I can't imagine the rules of procedure otherwise, and I'm not going to break it either, regardless of the fact that we have a conscripted epidemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on the proposal for a postponement. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to postpone the discussion on the Proposal for a Decision on the exercise of the exceptional powers of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the wider protection of the state border to one of the next meetings of the assembly. Procedural first, Comrade Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u78	Dear President, you have one responsibility in that seat, and that is to make sure that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure are strictly followed. As all three representatives of the opposition parliamentary groups have pointed out, there is today some serious beating of this Rules of Procedure. As it is said, having a debate is unusual. The Committee, I think, took place about eight hours after the Government proposed this decision, we had to hurry and now you are only prolonging the debate on something that we will not vote on for an indefinite period of time. The coalition groups agree to extend beyond the deadline of business. This, on the one hand, brings us into this room needlessly once again, in order to discuss in an empty manner, and on the other hand, this is in conflict with parliamentary practice and with business provisions. We have not yet received any reasonable explanation as to why the coalition parties propose this postponement. Nor is the proposal for a postponement justified, it only states under which article and that you agree to this postponement. So I absolutely disagree, but I would demand, even for the public, some explanation from the coalition, why this postponement is proposed for something that is practically meaningless, which we just need to get acquainted with.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u79	Anyone else procedural? [[Yeah.]] My friend Han. I hope the procedure doesn't double.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u80	President, no, I won't, nothing, no no. Only if you can read me which article in the Rules of Procedure gives you the opportunity to vote on your proposal. I agree that you, the references, have the opportunity at any time to withdraw the item from the agenda, but I would now like to ask for an explanation of why we should vote on this. It is simple to conclude that the point withdraws. Only Article of the Rules of Procedure if we vote. If he has it, I'll apologize and vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u81	I'll tell you, we're really not going to cheat. I'll read you the whole article. Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure: "The President, the parliamentary group, the proposer or the government, when there is no proposer, may propose that the debate or decision on the matter under consideration be postponed to one of the following meetings. The postponement of the matter, which has been placed on the agenda in accordance with Article 59(3) of this Rules of Procedure, may be proposed at one of the following meetings only by a delegation group, on the proposal of which the matter has been placed on the agenda. Such a proposal shall be decided by the National Assembly in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 64, paragraph 10 of this Rules of Procedure.” In short, we will decide on this and there is no debate on this. Of course you'll be one for one, one for the other. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. Comrade Wilderness.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u82	Mr President, can you please put a little more energy into speaking? I can't hear you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u83	And my buddy, Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. I'm going to partially abuse procedurally. Our key problem and challenge is the situation in the DSOs, the homes of older citizens. We should be doing this, and you'll be here to prolong the witch hunt. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-07-SDZ8-Izredna-34.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I see that the imagination ends somewhere in everyone's life and that we don't have any more procedural proposals. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Can't you hear it? We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 35. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 35.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted, so the National Assembly will hold a debate on the proposal for a decision at one of the following meetings. I hereby conclude the third item of the agenda and the 34th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
