ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting my 35th extraordinary session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Mr Matthew T. Vatovec. I invited the representative of the Council of State to the 7th point, Mr Franz Breznik and the representative of the Council of Justice to the 12th point, representatives of the Government to all points. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 35th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Wednesday, 22 April 2020, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received a proposal to withdraw the agenda item or proposals to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally, colleague Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u2	Dear President! I propose that you define yourself as President of the National Assembly on the resignation of Member Franz Breznik as State Secretary, who now wants to return to the post of Member of Parliament after concealing two weeks before the public that he was in a state of extreme alcoholism behind the wheel. In fact, he got so high that he could almost lose his driver’s license. After hiding from the public that he was in a meeting with a company involved in a criminal investigation into drug trafficking, he was hoping to provide a home for older citizens in Lenart with bananas and onions. It seems extremely inappropriate for us in Levica that, in fact, Franz Breznik does not realize that he should step down as an official on the entire line, not only as a secretary of state, but also as an MP. He is simply a member of a party who is in the air for every minor offence of any of the parties that are not SDS. Let us only recall the SDS Members' calls for the Secretary's resignation for an inappropriate joke on Twitter and similar episodes. At that time, the SDS is able to challenge and moralise the hours and hours at the expense of such matters, so I call upon you, Madam President of the National Assembly, to return to the post of Member after his resignation as Secretary of State, to define the high official. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u3	My colleague, you know there's no legal basis for this. Your proposal was also not a proposal on rules of procedure, so I am continuing to conduct this meeting. We're talking about setting the agenda. Once again, I have not received any proposals to withdraw the agenda item or proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There were 81 Members and Members present, with 75 votes against 1. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda of the 35th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to 12. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Conclusions on the reinstatement of the function of a Member and on the termination of the function of a Member under Article 14 of the Law on Members. The Government forwarded a notice to the National Assembly on the discharge of Franz Breznik from the functions of State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior of 17. 4. 2020, which concludes that France Brezniki was 17. 4. 2020 shall terminate the functions of the Secretary of State at that Ministry. The Government's notice was addressed by the Mandate-Volution Commission, which, pursuant to Article 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposes to the National Assembly that the following decisions be taken on the basis of Article 14 of the Law on Members and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First decision: National Assembly on the basis of a decision of the Government of 17. 4. 2020 notes that France has been to Breznik since 17. 4. 2020 has ceased to serve as Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior and since 18. 4. 2020 shall resume its duties as Member of the Commission. Second conclusion: Nuša Ferenčič, who served as a Member of Parliament instead of Member Franz Breznik at the time he served as Secretary of State, is 17. 4. 2020 ceased to serve as a Member of Parliament. I thank Nuša Ferenčič for the work he has done, and my fellow Member, Franz Breznik, I ask him to join the House of Representatives. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue today in the framework of the votes. We're moving to 2. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on temporary measures in connection with judicial, administrative and other public law matters for the control of the spread of imminent sars-Cov-2 disease (COVID-19) within the framework of an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Matico Zupan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief. I know it's a long day ahead of us today. At its 13th regular session on 21 April, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia set out the text of the amendment to the Law on Temporary Measures in relation to Judicial, Administrative and Other Public Legal Matters for the Control of the Dissemination of Infectious Disease SARS-COV-2, covid-19. The proposal for this novel presents one of the first steps of the exit strategy, which in the field of judicial and administrative matters means a gradual relaunch of the functioning of the judiciary and the implementation of administrative and other public law tasks. We therefore want to establish a legal basis for such a sequence of care, while ensuring that the possibility of spreading a viral infection is not increased and that the health and life of participants in these procedures is not jeopardised. The Novela brings solutions in two areas, in judicial matters and in administrative matters. In the field of judicial cases, the amendment will give rise to the possibility of deciding the courts and the service of judicial writings in so-called urgent cases, which is where the deadlines do not currently run. This guardian in the law is kept primarily due to the current restrictive measures, which would make it very difficult for citizens to exercise rights within the legal framework. We therefore propose that the courts should be able to start in a gradual manner, which will be prescribed in the order of the President of the Supreme Court, in accordance with the recommendations, thus ensuring an adequate safe environment for all participants in the proceedings to decide and service judicial writings. In the first place, we are trying to cover computerised procedures, namely the land book, enforcement and those procedures that the court has already carried out before the epidemic have already issued a decision, and this is now waiting for service. The amendments put forward on the Committee's motions introduced an important novelty in the text of the amendment, so that the courts can also carry out orders where possible, and that court writings on urgent matters will have to contain a notice to the parties that the deadline for their response will begin only when the end of the epidemic is announced in the relevant news. We believe that these two amendments have mainly addressed the issue raised by the Slovenian Bar Association with their amendments. The second novelty is linked to insolvency proceedings and is aimed at the future slow release of the judiciary in this area, too, by protecting the parties from extremely short deadlines. In accordance with the applicable rules of insolvency law, in these cases there is no possibility of a return to the previous situation, no possibility of a renewal of the procedure and no possibility of revision. We point out that this solution is ready for a situation where the President of the Supreme Court, by order, would place insolvency proceedings in a set of urgent cases, which is where the deadlines begin to run. Then the amendment contains two other solutions in the field of administrative matters, whether it is possible to deliver decisions and other documents in urgent matters in a way by depositing them in a mailbox, a mailbox or an electronic drawer where there will be no contact between the service provider and the addressee. As urgent matters on which deadlines do not run during temporary measures are regulated, the individual will not be obliged to do anything without delay, but he will be able to do so and thereby allow the procedure to continue, for example, to send the evidence necessary for the decision. In addition, the possibility of carrying out oral treatment is also legal in urgent cases, but only there and in a way where the health of the parties can be protected by appropriate measures. So many introductorys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Blaž Pavlin.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. The draft law was addressed by the Justice Committee at its 19th emergency meeting on 23 April 2020 and considered this proposal for a law as a work force. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the letter from the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia. The representative of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, stated in the supplementary explanation of the articles that the proposed law follows the fundamental purpose of the basic law, so that during the covid-19 epidemic, public authorities can operate in judicial and administrative proceedings while protecting the health and life of people, with the primary concern for the individual who is deprived of his or her rights during this period. The proposed law follows other measures taken by the State to control the epidemic, which are in the stage of the preparation of the exit strategy, which in the present case means the gradual activation of the functioning of the courts and administrative authorities with the possibility of deciding also in urgent cases without increasing the possibility of spreading viral infection and endangering the health and life of participants in proceedings. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the comments made in their written legal opinion were duly taken into account in the amendments tabled. In the debate, the Coalition Member welcomed the proposed gradual opening of action in judicial, administrative and other public legal matters, which would enable citizens to exercise their rights more easily. In doing so, it called on the courts to carry out all procedures that could be carried out by electronic means. In this regard, the representative of the applicant stated that the proposed solutions were also aimed at releasing informationised procedures. Although he did not oppose the proposed solutions, the opposition Member expressed fear that they had been followed by the calls of lawyers and bankruptcy managers to release the courts more than a recommendation made by the section on the protection of human health. He was also interested in how the proposed solutions to the service and the follow-up of urgent procedures would work in practice, which was further explained by the representative of the applicant. The Committee adopted the amendments of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Articles 1, 2 and 4 and, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on and adopted all the articles of the proposed law together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, colleague Yuri Lep.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u8	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representative of the Ministry! We adopted the Law on Temporary Measures in respect of Judicial, Administrative and Other Public Legal Matters at the 32nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. So he's been behind us for a month. The resulting situation of spreading infectious disease covid-19 has put us through a difficult test. All the branches of government have had to work and direct all their knowledge in the direction of overcoming and mitigating the situations caused by the virus. One of the temporary measures to be taken was the proposal in the field of the judiciary and administrative authorities. However, the appropriateness of the measures is best demonstrated in practice. Additional guidance and advice are emerging to which we need to listen, especially expert opinions and assessments of the competent health institutions. All the measures taken in the light of the epidemic at this time are of a temporary nature, but their results and also the consequences will be reflected significantly longer. The Act, which has been in force since 29 March, was adopted in order to prevent the spread of viral infection, to ensure the functioning of individual national and local authorities and, most importantly, to protect human health and life. The intervention law, which addresses the issue of the response of the judiciary and the administrative authorities to the proliferation of the coronary virus, thus stipulated, inter alia, that the deadlines in judicial and administrative matters, other than those necessary, do not run during the epidemic. From mid-March onwards, the courts and administrative authorities shall carry out their complaints and shall decide only in urgent cases. However, in practice it has been shown that a lot of work has also been done during this period in urgent matters. The new legislation follows other measures taken by the State to control the epidemic and constitutes a gradual activation of the functioning of the courts and administrative authorities in order to enable decision-making in urgent cases as well. All of this, of course, when meeting all the conditions for the safe functioning of the judiciary and the safe participation of the parties involved in or participating in the proceedings. This will enable the courts to decide and serve their writings in cases which are not considered necessary. In accordance with the law adopted on temporary measures in respect of judicial, administrative and other public matters, however, it will still mean that the deadlines in these matters will not run unless there are cases which are considered necessary. As a result, nothing will have to be done until the end of the epidemic for the parties who will receive the decision during this period. Unless they themselves wish to speed up a particular procedure, for example, to remedy certain shortcomings, to make the necessary statement, to supplement the application and so on. The adoption of the amendment will also provide for a derogation from strict rules in insolvency proceedings under the Financial Transactions Act, insolvency proceedings and compulsory termination. The Court will also consider and rule if the person has missed or is missing a claim for a reason directly linked to the epidemic and the court has not yet taken a decision on it. Thin borders are in unknown situations, but the judiciary apparatus must act with special care not to harm the rights of customers, especially those who are usually weak in a subordinate situation. All should be given permanent access to professional and appropriate legal advice and representation, regardless of the time and limitations in which we are placed. At the same time, the Court must start to act progressively and meet the necessary conditions for the safe operation of both employees and all parties in the proceedings. In the DeSUS Group, we will unanimously support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u9	Thank you. The Member Group of the Slovenian National Party, colleague Dušan Šiško, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u10	President, nice to meet you. Also to all present. The proposed law follows other measures taken by the State to control the covid-19 epidemic and takes into account in particular the current expert assessment on the spread of viral infection. The content of the law provides for the gradual and at the same time widest possible activation of the functioning of the courts and administrative bodies, by means of decision-making also in urgent matters without increasing the possibility of spreading the virus infection. With the adoption of this law, the gradual activation of the judiciary will begin. The law lays down the legal basis for courts to decide and service writings in non-emergency proceedings if the courts are able to ensure that such acts are carried out. The judicial branch is one of the branches of authority that contributes significantly to the functioning of the rule of law and democratic regulation. We do not want a situation where the judiciary has not carried out its fundamental mission for a long time. The law currently in force had an unexpected impact on the functioning of the judiciary and on the judiciary itself. We believe that it is the right time to loosen the serious measures already taken. At present, the problem is that the order of the President of the Supreme Court decrees that the courts will not open their doors by 1 July. This date is followed by court holidays. The latter means that lawyers will not be able to carry out their basic activities until the beginning of September 2020. The impact consists mainly of smaller legal offices which depend on hearings, complaints and other pending cases. When there is a failure to act as a lawyer, this also leads to a deterioration of legal certainty mainly for parties in the procedures already initiated and also for any individual in need of legal assistance. The adoption of this law will also begin to gradually activate the functioning of the administrative authorities in so-called urgent matters. These are steps that are small and not instantaneous, which could be to the detriment of customers, especially the weak ones. On the other hand, the adoption of this Act will prevent the emergence of greater later burdens on the courts and administrative units, which will also have to decide on the roles submitted before and during the covid-19 epidemic. It is important to ensure the gradual functioning of all organs in our country, as this will contribute to the return of life on the old tracks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u11	Thank you. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, a colleague of mags. Dean Kaloh.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u12	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues, colleagues, citizens who accompany us through small screens! The Law on interim measures in relation to judicial, administrative and other public legal matters for the control of the spread of communicable disease covid-19 follows the basic purpose of the basic law, in order to allow, during this transitional period, in judicial and administrative proceedings, such measures aimed at preventing the spread of viral infection, the protection of human health and the protection of human life, and at the same time ensuring the functioning of individual national authorities, local authorities and public authorities, and ensuring the exercise of rights and obligations. The amendment thus complements the legal basis which will allow for a gradual exit strategy and, as far as possible, the smooth and smooth functioning of the judiciary and the implementation of administrative and other public-law tasks. Following a proposal for a new law on temporary measures in court and state administration, the courts and administrative authorities will be able to deliver decisions, decisions and other documents to the parties in the procedure in urgent cases. Due to the still present risk of spreading viral infection, it is proposed in these cases that service be offered by depositing in the mailbox, mailbox or electronic drawer, as there will be no contact between the service provider and the addressee, but, pointed out, customers will not have to do anything after receiving the court or administrative mail. The deadlines for urgent matters will thus continue to run, and the parties to the decision will not have to do anything until the end of the epidemic. However, of course, the parties themselves may decide to do something and thus speed up the procedure themselves, for example, to provide new evidence, to waive the right of appeal or to supplement the application. Following a proposal for a new law, oral hearings in urgent cases will be again possible in the courts. In doing so, the Authority will have to ensure that the possibility of spreading the virus infection does not arise and will thus ensure the health and life of the participants in the proceedings. The second solution to the proposed novel is related to insolvency proceedings. The new proposed arrangements, in view of the situation in the country of the parties in these procedures, enable the effective implementation and protection of their rights. Despite any delay of time, the application, declaration, objection or instrument may also be submitted after the time limit, as this does not delay the procedure itself, since the court has not yet issued the decision. This prevents the customer from suffering adverse effects from delay of the arm if the cause or cause of the delay of the outbreak or covid-19 disease is due. The comments by the Legal and Legislative Service were duly taken into account in the amendments tabled and were also adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Justice on 23 April 2020. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group supports the amendment in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u13	Thank you. The text is given by the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, a colleague of Tina Heferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Nice hello to you all! The purpose of the novel remains the same as in the original law that we adopted a good month ago, namely to regulate the interruption of the deadline in judicial, administrative and other public legal matters, with the difference that due to the improved epidemiological picture of the novel, certain restrictive measures which had to be imposed by the courts, administrative authorities and other public authorities due to the spread of the new coronavirus have been gradually released. The fact is that the epidemic is becoming more manageable and the gradual release of restrictive measures will have to be introduced in all social areas, not only in the public domain. We must not forget that it is difficult for people to exercise their rights not only in judicial and administrative proceedings, but also in other areas where they exercise even more fundamental human rights, such as freedom of movement. While this novelty in judicial and administrative matters seeks to establish a gradual and at the same time widest possible functioning of the judiciary and administration. We in the LMŠ Group want the Government to prepare a so-called exit strategy not only for the judiciary and public administration, but as has already been said for all the areas of our society currently on pause. One of the most important is definitely education, where we still do not have any drafts for this exit strategy. If I return to the novel, this introduces certain relaxations in procedures that will allow quicker treatment for part, but for some of them only if the parties so wish. From the judiciary comes calls on the Government to release restrictive measures in the judiciary even more, but with all the remaining restrictions, particularly the restrictions on movement, this moment is unfortunately not feasible. More concrete release of restrictive measures in court will require greater release of all other restrictive measures, which should not be so difficult in view of the state of the epidemic and the social responsibility shown by our citizens in these last weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a colleague of mags. Meira Hot.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! After the adoption of this amendment, the courts will be able to decide again and to deliver court letters in cases other than those referred to as urgent, but only if the conditions for the safe and smooth operation of both employees and customers are met. In the first place, it is important to protect the health and life of all of us. Given that other countries are also releasing measures, it seems extremely important that courts also begin to decide as many human rights and obligations as possible. Because of the work of the courts, the parties have been waiting for a bad month and a half to exercise their rights again. In view of the fact that statistics show that in March this year the courts carried out half of the contracts last March, it is also certain that an increase in the number of judicial arrears is expected. We are particularly concerned about the increase in the number of unemployed due to the many layoffs of employers. In these cases, it is crucial that workers be given the opportunity to initiate and initiate proceedings in the labour and social courts as soon as possible. We can therefore expect that the number of disputes in these courts will increase. The courts will thus, for example, be able to issue judgments on civil matters, issue enforcement and insurance decisions, decide on the entries in the land book and carry out certain claims, and the deadlines will not run, however, in these cases. Thus, if they receive a decision or a decision by a court, they will not be obliged to do anything. The deadlines for filing a complaint or an expiry review will not run. Even if the debtor receives an enforcement decision, he will not be obliged to settle it unless he so wishes. This amendment will also make it possible to carry out oral and other procedural actions in urgent matters in administrative and other public matters. But even in these matters, the hands will not run. The addressees will thus not be obliged to act unless they themselves wish and send, say, the missing documentation necessary for the decision. In order to avoid any personal contact between the service provider and the recipient of the decision, the service will be carried out in the home drawer, post office drawer or electronic address box. A new legal presumption shall also be introduced to take note of the document after which the service will be valid for the sixth working day from the date of dispatch or the twentieth working day from the date of dispatch, provided that the service is kept in physical form abroad. We welcome the amendment adopted by the Committee on Justice, by which this period was extended to 26 days after the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service from three to ten days. After the removal of restrictive measures, work in courts and administrative units will also need to be adapted. President of the Supreme Court, Mag. Damian Floriančič has thus already given an initiative to shorten judicial holidays. Until then, it will certainly be necessary to increase the use of digital services, such as the use of videoconferencing and the upgrading of electronic commerce. As has already been said, the epidemic and the restrictive measures strongly alter the working processes. Some workers work from home, and a lot of workers are already on hold, and some companies forgive. However, it is at the time of the epidemic that employers have to respect labour legislation so much more. Therefore, it is all the more important that workers have all kinds of assistance available, and in particular legal protection in cases where their rights have been violated. The Social Democrats will support the proposal for a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, a colleague of mags. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u18	Thank you very much for your words, President, and for all of you. As it is known, because of the Coronavirus epidemic in the field of justice, all the way from 16. 3. 2020 specific measures relating to the implementation of the judicial authority shall apply. Thus, all courts shall, from that date, carry out the proceedings and decide only on urgent matters, as provided for in Article 83 of the Law on the Courts. However, since the material time limits are not prolonged, we had to determine that not all the time limits are running in all court cases, including criminal cases, before the Constitutional Court. Thus, at its 32nd extraordinary meeting, the National Assembly adopted the Law on interim measures in respect of judicial, administrative and other public matters. The intervention law lays down the duration of these urgent temporary measures and gives the President of the Supreme Court additional powers to select urgent matters and to extend those measures. The latter law also regulates measures in the enforcement of criminal sanctions and measures in administrative and other public matters, i.e. in the work of administrative units and notaries. Since the courts are acting in a debilitated manner, it is possible to expect that problems will arise after the cessation of the measures or after the warnings of the Bar and the Chamber of Fusion Managers in the areas of insolvency proceedings, labour disputes, enforcement, legal proceedings, registrations in the Land Book and so on. That is why the Government or the competent Ministry of Justice has already responded and prepared an amendment to that law, which we are considering at today’s meeting. Therefore, this novelty is based on ensuring that the work of the courts where, in the light of restrictive measures, it can take place at the same time as ensuring that there are no harmful consequences for the parties. In view of the fact that the measures taken have produced results and the epidemic is becoming manageable, it is also necessary to lay the groundwork for a gradual exit strategy in the area of justice. The proposal for amendments to the intervention law provides that the courts may also carry out certain acts in urgent cases, without the deadlines for the parties to these cases. In this way, the Presidents of the Courts may, in the light of the staff and other capacity of the individual Court without the order of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, decide that the Court shall continue to operate in certain urgent cases and that the rule of the Law on the Courts will still apply so that the deadlines for the parties do not run. The Court will consider insolvency proceedings where, in principle, very short deadlines apply and there is no possibility of a return to the previous situation, applications shall be considered irrespective of whether the party has missed the deadline or has left the claim for reasons related to the epidemic. Finally, the amendment would provide that the administrative authorities may carry out service in non-emergency cases in a simplified manner via e-mail or mail, without the deadline for the exercise of the rights of the parties running, which will be clearly stated in the writing. In the SMC Group, we are aware that some stakeholders in the judiciary would like to see the functioning of the judiciary opened up more quickly, but we agree with the proposals made by the Minister of Justice that it is a reasonable gradual opening also due to the current restrictions on movement which allow for continued access to legal advice, representation, and thus to lawyers. In addition, courts or the Supreme Court shall be detained until such motions have been made. However, given the fact that the judicial backlogs will increase, we call on both the Supreme Court and the Ministry to seriously consider that judicial holidays will be reduced or even abolished this year, which requires a change of law. This measure should be considered today so that the amendment of the legislation can be adopted by summer and that the courts can prepare for it. In the SMC Group, we will support the bill. However, we do not agree with some estimates that Slovenia is facing a collapse of the rule of law due to certain measures in the field of justice. At the same time, we remind the judiciary that the return to the normal situation before the imposition of measures with such a mode of action as has been practiced so far will no longer be possible and that the measures and solutions offered by modern information technology, which, of course, must not undermine the legal security of individual participants in judicial proceedings, will have to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Left Parliamentary Group, colleague Željko Cigler.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In Levica, we have supported all the measures that we consider necessary, justified and also appropriate since the outbreak we are facing. For actions in the field of judicial, administrative and other public legal matters, as provided for by the intervention law, which we adopted exactly one month ago, we have assessed in Levica that they are necessary and appropriate, so we have also supported the law. In doing so, we have further pointed out some shortcomings, from adequate care for those who are in prison, to ensuring that some will not be deprived of their functions or of the restrictive functioning of the courts. With regard to all the warnings at that time, we also received assurances that the Ministry will take care of all the problems that are being raised and that no major problem is expected. We hope that this will be the case in practice. However, as regards today's amendment, we were able to read in the media 14 days ago that lawyers and bankruptcy managers are calling for the release of measures in the field of the functioning of the courts, which is, of course, understandable on their part, since the measures restrict both their business and the revenues they derive from this title. On the other hand, courts are skeptical of the release of measures, especially pending the release of insolvency proceedings. In the current situation, of course, this leaves a slightly bitter taste. We are facing a health crisis. An epidemic has been declared due to infectious disease and measures and the release regime is determined by everyone, from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of the Interior, but not by the medical profession. That the government of Janez Janša, in its pursuit of increasing concentration of power and power, is becoming more and more outspoken, we have warned and warned in Levica all the time, but our warnings are largely overheard. We certainly expect that the result of the release of measures will not mean the spread of infection in the courts and that the competent courts will provide all the equipment they need to ensure the safe implementation of the procedures. As far as the law we are considering today is concerned, we have raised some concerns in Levica, particularly with regard to the lack of clarity on which the courts are going to start dealing, and the fact that this will cause a number of confusion and uncertainty in the parties. We've highlighted the issue of heat. The law provides that during the epidemic the courts will serve beyond the rules of administrative procedure, through direct service to the mailboxes. This means that, at the time when the deadlines do not run, the parties will still be served with writings in urgent cases. For an average lawless individual, this means quite a bit of confusion. You will be given a decision on an urgent matter stating that the deadline will begin when the epidemic is lifted. Taking into account the fact that access to legal aid and, in particular, free legal aid is limited, this can cause unnecessary stress and hardship for many citizens. All of our concerns and warnings have been given by the representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Public Administration to ensure that the parties will also accept a letter or notification of what precise service means, when deadlines begin to run and how the party should proceed. We certainly expect this to be the case and that the release of measures will not have a negative impact on people in particular. In view of the above, we will support the proposal in Levica, but will also check how matters are taking place in practice and whether the guarantees provided by the competent ministries are indeed being met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, colleague Blaž Pavlin.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u22	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Last week, a gradual release of restrictive measures began in certain areas of life, and it is therefore necessary and proper to release certain measures in the field of justice, justice and public administration through the bill under consideration. A proposal for a law establishes the conditions for the conduct of proceedings in judicial, administrative and other public legal matters, unless the possibility of spreading a virus infection is increased in proceedings or procedures and endangers the health and life of participants in proceedings while also ensuring the rights of those participants. The bill will allow the courts to issue judgments and also to serve them to the parties if they have completed the main hearing before the imposition of the measures in an urgent way. The verdict will be served, but the hands won't run. In the executive area, executions are now postponed. With the introduction of the novelty, the courts will also be able to issue enforcement and insurance decisions and deliver them to the parties in urgent cases that have commenced prior to the imposition of measures for the epidemic. There will continue to be no overlaps and attacks on bank accounts. In Novi Slovenija we particularly welcome the release of land-book matters. The decision on the proposal may become legally binding, even if the deadlines do not run if, for example, all the parties waive the right to appeal. The amendment will make it possible for decisions and other documents to be served on urgent matters. Due to the still present risk of spreading viral infection, it is proposed to serve in these cases by depositing in the mailbox, mailbox or electronic drawer where contacts between the service provider and the addressee will not occur. Facing the Coronavirus epidemic should encourage us to use more information technology. In the judiciary, in the courts and in the public and public administration, all necessary measures must be taken to enable them to operate remotely and electronically in the future. Legal frameworks should be set up as well as technical solutions for their smooth implementation. Here I am thinking mainly of the area of investment and service, which could be carried out smoothly in electronic form. Since the proposal for amendments to the law brings solutions that will enable the courts and administrative authorities to operate also in urgent cases without increasing the possibility of spreading the virus and endangering the health and life of the participants in the proceedings, the Members of New Slovenia will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word is given by the SAB Group of Ambassadors, colleague Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u24	Thank you, President. Dear Members! In the SAB, we support all those government measures to prevent the epidemic and to prevent its consequences, which we believe are for the benefit of citizens and citizens and for the benefit of the economy. We also supported the law adopted on 20 March on temporary measures in relation to judicial, administrative and other public legal matters, which provided a legal basis for the adoption of temporary measures in judicial, administrative and other public legal proceedings aimed at preventing the spread of viral infection. However, these measures, which are necessary to prevent the spread of viral infection and to protect the health and life of people, should also be seen in the light of the fact that they will certainly leave certain consequences, particularly in the area of backlogs in such procedures. The courts, for example, only deal with cases of urgency, and in urgent cases they do not serve in writings of the court. As a result, there is a accumulation of cases in the courts, which will be a huge burden when the measures currently in force are released, and probably why the Government has submitted this proposal for a law before us today. In judicial and administrative proceedings, this will allow a gradual resumption of operation, but only subject to certain conditions for the protection of the health and life of the parties in the proceedings. The courts will therefore be able to continue to decide on urgent matters from the application of this law if they are able to provide appropriate safety conditions for this purpose. If an individual court is unable to provide adequate conditions for the safe operation of the President of the Supreme Court, it will not be able to decide to such an extent on matters which are not defined as necessary and the deadlines in urgent matters will not continue to run. The proposal also contains some solutions concerning the scope of insolvency proceedings currently defined as non-necessary procedures. It is also possible to submit an application after the time prescribed by law in order to avoid any harmful consequences. An epidemic may cause a person to be late for a statement, an application, an objection, or so forth, and the party will have to show the reasons for the delay. Decisions and decisions on urgent matters may be served on administrative matters. It is anticipated that there will be no contact. It will be served by depositing in a mailbox, post office or electronic drawer. However, the notion of service in this way will not be irrefutable, as otherwise provided for by the General Administrative Procedure Act. The novelty also allows for oral treatment or other procedural actions that may result in contact between a client and an official. The Authority will decide on each individual matter or test whether it can perform a process action without the risk of spreading an infection. In the SAB Group, we agree that the normal functioning of both the judiciary and other administrative bodies should be ensured gradually and that we will also support this bill. At the same time, we point out that, especially in situations like these, as we are now witnessing, it is essential to ensure that the rights of the parties are protected in procedures, especially those of the weak ones, so that there are no actions that could have irreparable consequences for the parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today, in the framework of the votes. That's what I'm breaking up with. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is a second defensive proposal for a law to provide additional liquidity to the economy for the end-of-epidemia of the cavid-19 in the context of the emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. I give the floor to Mr Janez Janša, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, we've been watching TV, and it's a bit of a delay. You're faster here. Thank you for your word. Unlike the first anti-korona package prepared by the Government relatively quickly in a very emergency situation, the law now before you is the law on providing additional liquidity to the Slovenian economy, as well as the next law, the law on supplementing the first anti-korona package, prepared with the cooperation of virtually all the most important stakeholders and also more involved in the preparation of both marriage materials. The government has set up five working groups that have worked very intensively to find out what is missing in the first package and at the same time where those key problems are related to ensuring the liquidity of the Slovenian economy, which must be addressed as soon as possible. In addition to what the Government has already presented at the meeting of the parent labour body, the Minister for Finance will then add some emphasis to the explanation for the law on the provision of additional liquidity to the Slovenian economy. In addition to opening a two-billion-dollar credit line for economic operators and for individuals engaged in economic activity, let me say that it also addresses the problem of underdevelopment at local self-government level. Thus, we also raise the averages for congregations that, hand to heart, played an extremely important role during this epidemic. Many things that have made life within all these limits as normal are the result of the good functioning of local self-government or the right decisions at the municipal level. Once again, I thank the parishes and all those who have been involved in this activity in situations we have never faced before. These funds, which will be obtained by means of higher averages, are not the means to remedy the consequences of the crown, these are the resources needed by the municipalities for normal life, while further trying to address all the costs incurred by the municipalities as a result of the fight against the epidemic in particular within the context of the real possibilities given. With this law, with this two billion-dollar package ahead of you, the question is, of course, whether that's enough. Is this enough to keep the Slovenian economy liquid even at this time, or is this possibly too small? Is that too much, of course, no one asks. The answer to this question is that, of course, this is enough in the short term. In the short term, there is enough for the Slovenian economy and individuals who are engaged in business activities can get state guarantees here at an extremely high level of guarantees for all the loans they have rented since 13 March or will be hired by the end of the year to deal with the consequences of the epidemic or to mitigate these shocks. So that they do not interfere with measures such as the closure of production, which is still perspective that they do not forgive employees, that they do not in short term go into certain measures in which they would be forced in the short term and could cause very much damage in the medium term. Whether this will be sufficient in the medium and long term, no one has an answer to this question at this time. It depends, in particular, on how the consequences of this epidemic will be definitively assessed, and no one currently has these final estimates. At the last videoconference of European leaders, there were very different assessments. While countries are in different situations, they are affected differently, even though we all say it is a symmetrical shock. Estimates fell from 5 to 15 % of the drop in gross domestic product in Europe. This is one to three, it is said, usually these forecasts vary by a tenth of the gross domestic product, now it is an estimate of 5 to 15%, and here no one has put his hand in the fire that this is a final estimate. This is the first thing that depends on whether this credit line, which is now in place, or whether these guarantees are large enough in the medium term. The second question on which the answer to this question depends is how long the epidemic will continue. No one has the answer to that question either. World science is making extraordinary efforts to develop medicines and vaccines. There are very different information here, from very optimistic to very skeptical, that the virus will mutate and that every year or every new outbreak will require a new vaccine. There's no single answer here. In short, these predictions are different. World science is making extraordinary efforts to find solutions, but we know that all that the world is passing through has not been enough to at least get a timely warning against the spread of this virus from Vuhan, even though all the world’s television shows pictures of what is going on there. But the rest of the world was acting like it would never come from there. Even many scientists spoke in this direction, the World Science Organization had such a prediction at the beginning. It is necessary to maintain a healthy skepticism up to all these forecasts regarding medicines and vaccines, while at the same time maintaining the hope that we will come up with an effective solution that will cut the epidemic. But as a matter of fact, I don't know. Once we know more about this, we will also know whether these guarantees are sufficient, or whether 2 billion are the sum that allows the Slovenian economy to provide liquidity in the medium term. Let's not talk about long-term action now. At the same time, when addressing these issues, there is much talk about the so-called exit strategies from the epidemic. These are the most popular words in the last two weeks. In view of the exchange of experience with other European leaders through videoconferences, I can say that there are many predictions, many revisions to the forecast, many announcements about what will happen, many changes, including many differences. If someone is monitoring the last days of the gap between the profession in France and during the government's announcement of the opening of schools, there are many arguments on the one hand and on the other. There are also very different forecasts of individual countries. For example, with regard to education — some have already announced that by autumn school will not be in the way of classes, some have announced the combination. For us, experts within the Ministry of Health have made a recommendation on education in recent days, and this will be published in the coming days. But there is no single view of what the exit strategy should be in the European Union at the moment. Also because, at present, there are significantly more infections in neighbouring countries than there were at the beginning of the epidemic, which, of course, also raises questions about the opening of borders. The outbreak of infections in Trieste in the last week, in our immediate neighbourhood, this possibility is likely to move into a longer future, although interior ministers have a videoconference right now where they discuss how to at least partially relax the crossing of European borders for passengers. There is still a debate in Europe on how to provide sufficient resources through European mechanisms to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic, to preserve the capacity of the European economy. It is clear that there will be nothing from the so-called coronal bond, for which the whole European Union will guarantee solidarity. This is because it would require the consent of all countries plus ratification in parliaments of all countries. Right now, there's no real possibility of that happening. The real possibility, which is announced in addition to all the relaxations already announced by the European Commission, is a productive combination of the use of the next European budget together with this recovery fund. Here are the different numbers mentioned. In particular, Italy and other more affected countries are rooting for a thousand 500 billion heavy funds, which would be partially loaded through loans, partly through the so-called helicopter money. I don't think there's gonna be much of that. This Fund will be set up because this is a realistic option, because it is possible to come up with at least some of the existing formal mechanisms without long coordination and ratification procedures at the back. That is why we also support this because it is better that at least something happens in real time than it takes two years before anything is established. Thus, we are for solutions that are more realistic, although in our view less appropriate than those that would be ideal. To illustrate the dilemma facing a large part of European policy now. It is simple to say that, after we have overcome the epidemic, the European Union, after this shock, which we all say has been symmetrical, no government is to blame for this, unlike what has happened in the rescue of Greece and we also need common answers. If there are no such common answers, after the end of this epidemic there will be some countries in Europe that have been most affected – Slovenia is not among them so far – in a significantly poorer economic situation, because they will have to do so under significantly poorer conditions, when ratings fall and so on. Quite banally, in a few years, this will mean that a senior middle class member from Germany or from the Netherlands will be able to buy a villa in Tuscany for half of the current price, probably not in Piran, where prices are already, I will say, somewhere at the top price ceilings of real estate. Of course, this is a banalization of comparison. Of course, it's also about the price of businesses, it's about, if you want, natural resources, about everything that's strategic in the end. In order to prevent conflicts and wars from occurring in Europe, the European Union, which was first created as a steel and coal union, was actually created. It is said that we are here somewhere at the very beginning, and we can only hope that the political class in Europe will be able to make more sober judgements [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u27	Time's up. Thank you very much. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Finance. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to my colleague, Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 37th emergency meeting, the Finance Committee considered the draft law on the provision of additional liquidity for the economy to mitigate the consequences of the COVID-19 epidemic submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. In an additional explanation, the Minister of Finance presented a proposal for a law and explained that it introduces a guarantee scheme for loans to be granted by business banks to economic operators. The Republic of Slovenia will provide guarantees of EUR 2 billion. The amount shall be determined on the basis of expert analyses taking into account the situation in banking and the economy. Creditors will have to meet the conditions for granting the guarantee, which will ensure that the benefits will mainly benefit successful companies whose problems result from the epidemic. He stressed that they did not want to cause moral gambling, where the benefits arising from the bill would benefit businesses in difficulty. The State will cover the guarantees primarily with cash and, subject to the conditions of the European Central Bank and with the consent of the Bank of Slovenia, the bonds could also be earmarked for the payment of the guarantees. The aim of the bill is to improve liquidity and maintain jobs in the economy. The Minister explained that the proposal also interferes with the SID of the bank, allows for additional borrowing and provides for an increase in the average for municipalities. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stated that the Service had drawn up a written opinion and had summarized some of the key points drawn from this opinion. It noted that the bill combines intervention measures and some novelties. The draft law is also accompanied by a decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum, which is why it is necessary to specifically justify whether all the contents of the bill constitute necessary measures in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. She explained that the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups address some of the comments made by the service itself. In the debate, some members and members of the Committee expressed concerns about the proposal for a law. The issue of the absence of aid for companies operating abroad was raised and whether the guarantee scheme would be generally available for those companies which really need it because of the harsh conditions. In this regard, the question was also raised as to whether 2 billion guarantees amount to State debt and what will happen to the SID bank, as there is an estimate that about one quarter of the guarantees will also be cashed, amounting to slightly less than EUR 500 million. It was also pointed out whether the solutions in the draft law were in line with the Bank of Slovenia. Members also pointed out the problem of rents and leasings of small companies which cannot repay them. On the other hand, some members and members of the Committee pointed out that rapid financial support to companies, particularly for liquidity resolution, is very important, as well as the fact that the state can be more remunerated than companies. This will facilitate the acquisition of state-guaranteed loans in order to prevent economic damage and preserve as many jobs as possible. They stressed that the aid must be given to those companies that demonstrate the potential for recovery from the crisis. With regard to aid at the level of the European Union, it has been pointed out that agreements are still under way, but some EUR 540 billion is foreseen, of which Slovenia can account for 2.2 billion. The Minister of Finance has provided some additional clarifications, in particular regarding the specific provisions of the bill and its financial effects. He answered the questions raised in the debate. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has considered the amendments tabled and adopted all amendments of the coalition's members. The Committee did not adopt the amendments tabled by the Levica, LMŠ, SD and SAB members. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. The first is the Member Group of the Slovenian National Party, colleague Jani Ivanuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Special greetings to all present, and of course to the Prime Minister and the President of the Government! I sincerely wish that this proposal of the law before us would really ensure that the economy is further liquidity, but let us go in a good way. First time. This law must only be adopted because Slovenia has sold all its banks. If I'm being more specific, mostly my shares in banks. Too bad, because we need banks today. It is interesting that Slovenia must provide guarantees for each measure to banks, now to foreign banks, not to domestic banks. Liquidity should be guaranteed by banks, not by the state. The amount of the State guarantee is estimated at EUR 2 billion. The State expects this guarantee to cost at least a quarter of the amount of the guarantee. This means that the country will again spend at least half a billion dollars on those companies that are going to shut down sooner or later. Let us just remember all the companies we have saved in the past. In the end, they all collapsed, but it's a market economy that some advocate. The country should solve good, healthy companies that have liquidity problems really only because of the epidemic. Entrepreneurs say that banks don't even grant them loans to pay their salaries. If such an entity has paid wages on a regular basis before the epidemic and cannot pay them at the time of the epidemic due to the ban on doing business, then I do not know why the banks are so strict. Not all those who caused liquidity problems themselves by poor management and management. Notwithstanding state aid to ensure the liquidity of businesses, economic and social consequences already appear in the economy, which are much worse than the epidemic. We know how many espouses were closed immediately after the outbreak was declared. Also some companies, I am thinking mainly of tourist agencies – the number of unemployed in the Employment Institute is rising rapidly. Employers are already lowering their salaries to their employees. The country will have a highly unbalanced budget. First, there'll be more expenditure, and secondly, there'll be less revenue. In short, bad times are promising. Although the Government is trying to help the population and the economy, the measures are simply not effective enough. Go to Velenje and ask those on the forgiveness list. Ask those who apply to the Employment Service every day. As in any crisis, state aid should be shared with a shaking hand in this case. Some will make use of state aid for their own exploitation and then send businesses to bankruptcy and employees to the Employment Institute. The government should consider State aid, which would be conditional, and we are currently in a state of inadvertent budget allocation to some who do not need it at all. Let us not forget that accounting data can be very elastic. This means that entrepreneurs can adapt to their needs. A fuse should be placed for each budget euro. State aid should be conditional. If the state aid is for workers, the workers should receive it. Where State aid is intended for the purchase of basic funds, the State shall pay it directly to the suppliers. There's something else that's very important. Today, those entrepreneurs who called for tax reductions during the economic crisis are asking for help. It would be good to be aware that this State aid is financed directly by taxes that are not or are not paid by all taxpayers. In the Slovenian National Party we also welcome raising averages for municipalities. For a long time, municipalities have been pointing to financial undernutrition. The country places more and more work on the congregations, but at the same time these powers are not followed by financial flows. In these times, municipalities should also reward all those who help to contain the epidemic, primarily firefighters, civil protection, and health workers. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, a colleague of Felica Žiža.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u32	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! Egregio Presidente della Camera di Stato, Grazie per la password. Egregi deputates, deputates, egregio Presidente del Governo! Tiste Hölgyim és Uraim! In the Group of Italian and Hungarian National Communities, we support the proposal for a law providing additional liquidity to the economy to mitigate the consequences of the COVID-19 epidemic. We welcome the Government's efforts to prepare a set of measures for rapid liquidity assistance to Slovenian companies and raise averages for municipalities during the Coronavirus epidemic in Slovenia. Many companies had to limit their activities or temporarily close their doors at that time. In addition, active companies face difficulties in the supply chains and in the provision of services. All will need the necessary liquidity bank loans to maintain jobs and economic stability in the country for normal operation or relaunch. In addition to existing financial instruments, the State will therefore provide additional guarantees for the rental of bank loans. For a company with less than 250 employees, it will guarantee up to 80% of the capital, and for large companies based in Slovenia it will guarantee up to 70% of the capital. A country that thus takes on its own a large part of the risk of the crisis will spend €2 billion on a guarantee scheme for loans to businesses. Companies established in Slovenia with a good rating and settled tax and contribution obligations and for reasons of borrowing will be able to obtain liquidity loans up to a tenth of last year's revenues or at the level of the total cost of salaries. We are convinced that Slovenia, as it has so far been able to successfully take measures to mitigate the spread of covida-19, which in this case is one of the more effective countries in the world, will also be able to effectively mitigate the serious financial, economic and social consequences that lie ahead of us after this global pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, a colleague of mags. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u34	Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us a law on the provision of additional liquidity to the economy to mitigate the consequences of the covida-19 epidemic. This is another package of legislation proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to deal with the consequences of covid-19 virus and is primarily intended for direct assistance to economic operators in the Republic of Slovenia, to maintain jobs in companies. The main solutions to the proposed law are the regulation of the guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia, given to banks and savings banks for corporate loans, the duration of the loan must not exceed five years, the amount of the guarantee provided by the Republic of Slovenia shall be 70% of the principal of the loans for large enterprises and 80% for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The proposed guarantee scheme will address the problem of liquidity in the economy that occurred in the wake of the covid-19 outbreak. Key measures are measures that will enable businesses to revive their investment activities and thus maintain jobs. The proposed law also provides a 6% increase in average municipalities. Instead of 589.11 euros per capita, municipalities will receive 623,96 euros, with the total amount valid for the year. Together, the municipalities will receive an additional €70 million. Higher averages will provide higher revenues to individual municipalities and thus ensure the management of better legal obligations. The law also provides that renters of commercial buildings or business premises owned by the Republic of Slovenia or owned by self-governance local communities who are prevented or significantly hampered by covid-19 shall not be charged rents or rentals. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we are convinced that the measures envisaged by the proposed law are appropriate and correct, so we will also support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, a colleague of Igor Pecek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying that the purpose of the law, which is certainly good in the List of Marjan Šarc, is not doubtful, but the reality that we must look at with common eyes is different, but, above all, deeper and broader than the measures proposed by the Government in this law. Even before the adoption of the law in the Government, in the very stage of drafting the proposal, many of the opposition's proposals have been heard more than recently. We don't think and we don't want to report that everything in marriage is bad because we don't think it is. It is right that we are trying to stimulate banks by means of the proposed measures, that they have an interest in helping the economy by lending and that we are in some way providing them with adequate collateral. But the main problem with the proposed guarantee law is that it does not solve or is not created to solve the underlying problem of the economy, and this is a problem of the loss of corporate income. The basic objective of the law should be to help many businesses in the various activities that were most affected by the start of the crisis, which began with the decline in economic growth and then by government measures themselves. We are thinking mainly of larger, medium, small and also, especially micro-enterprises, which will have a major problem with servicing their obligations to suppliers, but will not benefit from this guarantee scheme of so-called liquidity assets that would enable them to continue operating. Restrictions on individual undertakings to obtain guarantees on the basis of annual revenues and labour costs are extremely restrictive, both within the framework of the European Commission and in comparable countries. It is true that the amendment of the PKP1 Law does compensate the Government or the State for the remuneration of employees on hold, but it is necessary to know that the costs of gross wages are only around 30 to 35 % of the total costs incurred by companies in carrying out their activities. The government does not compensate for obligations to suppliers, fixed costs of these companies, such as leasings, insurance, telecommunications and utility services, annuity payments for credits and depreciation. These costs and expenditure have been affected by companies, despite measures already taken, such as the deferral of payments of annuity for credits and income payments, because of reduced revenues they will not be able to cover. This means that the problem, due to the inability to pay to financial institutions, to fixed service providers and so on, will be passed down the chain, thus leading the insolvency of these companies to their insolvency while at the same time causing the problem of inequity, potential insolvency in their suppliers as well. It also seems crucial to us that the proposal for a law does not refer to the remaining conditions under which the bank is obliged to grant a loan if it takes advantage of the possibility to secure a loan by the State from 70 to 80 % at the first call that it does not have to grant that loan and that there is no maximum interest rate. We are also disturbed by the regulation of the modified method of drafting a proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for members of the Supervisory Board of the SID of the Bank. It is clear from the very nature of the matter that this is not a measure which, in its own sense and content, would even be necessary to bring the intervention law that we are adopting today into effect. It is simply a permanent measure, a change that is constantly amending the Slovenian Export and Development Bank Act. And this is another measure which, like a Trojan horse, is placed in a regulation which is of an intervention nature and which will only apply as such for a certain period of time, i.e. for the duration of the epidemic. Unfortunately, we cannot support the proposed law today because of everything mentioned in the List of Marjan Šarc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u37	Thank you very much. There's a colleague of mine who's got the word. Meira Hot for the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! When the covida-19 epidemic was declared, it became clear that it would bring with it immense negative effects on the liquidity of citizens and citizens and the economy, a sudden halt to the public life of all economic and other activities. In fact, the epidemic has cut off all these processes in the middle of the current, so it is logical that many will not have coverage for the payment of the claim that was made before the epidemic, as it could not foresee the consequences that March will bring. It is clear that ensuring the liquidity of funds at the time of the epidemic and recovery will be a key challenge for the authorities and a key criterion for their success. We have been alerting the Social Democrats since day one. Already in our first proposals for the National Security Council meeting, we have highlighted the need to provide quick liquidity resources to enable affected entities to help immediately. The setting up of bureaucratic procedures and the possible partial recovery of aid for those who will recover successfully would be regulated once the situation is calmed down. In preparing the first measures, the new government coalition decided to address the problem only later, so ensuring liquidity was not part of the so-called first anti-Korona package. A separate law that would provide bridge funds to the Slovenian economy and people was therefore difficult to expect. When we finally received the draft law, however, we were disappointed to learn that it was only a package of bank loans with a state guarantee. To all who are desperate today because they do not know how they will provide money for maintaining their activities and jobs, the government has prepared a single solution — a bank loan. Indeed, with the State guarantee, but it is a loan that will have to be repaid in full. No relief for those who will be severely or permanently affected, no possibility of partial write-off of the aid received, no means of adapting the new situation. This credit logic shows how poorly decision-makers know the situation in businesses and business policy. However, a loan, to be intended for bridging or investment, shall be used only if the borrower considers that it will also actually repay the loan with the expected revenue. In circumstances where the start-up of business and business conditions is not clear, lending means irresponsible action and a poor business decision, so we are afraid that many of the most affected sectors will simply lose their assistance because they will not be able to use it. In doing so, calls were ignored after the inclusion of additional measures. For example, the Social Democrats, following the call of the Chamber of Commerce, proposed to include in the law a scheme for co-financing of commercial rents, but we were rejected. Like all other constructive proposals of the opposition and civil society. We fear that the Government is assessing the effectiveness of its actions only after their common assessment of the value. It is important that the credit guarantee scheme weighs EUR 2 billion and is much less interested in whether and how the beneficiaries will be able to use this aid. Thus, these and other laws raise the sum of public funds used to deal with the epidemic, with no response to the demand for efficiency. In today's debate, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will try to supplement the bill with amendments at least a little bit. There are still few options for this, since the Committee has reached into so few articles that serious additions are no longer possible. However, we will decide on our support after the discussion has been concluded, but we are now assessing that the law, which is so unilaterally and narrowly addressing the problems of each other's extremely diverse entities, will not be able to get our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, a colleague of Matey Udovč.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The outbreak of the new coronavirus has put Slovenia under a new challenge. We've never been in this position before. Economic conditions are deteriorating rapidly, economic activity is falling sharply, and the labour market situation is exacerbated. We are facing the worst crisis since 2009, when the Slovenian economy fell by 7%. Experts estimate that the crisis will be even longer and that recovery will be very long. The consequences of the epidemic can only be overcome by the early start of the economy, and the main question is how to start the economy, so that companies can produce and continue to develop, that employees will receive salaries and that the country will receive tax revenues for the provision of public services. The implementation of government measures in practice and administrative simplification of procedures to help employees are key to the economy as quickly as possible. We are aware that many Slovenian companies are already in a deep crisis. As one of the solutions is today's bill, which will ensure the necessary liquidity for the Slovenian economy. The measures proposed will enable companies to rent loans secured by the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. The amount of the liquidity loan will be limited to 10% of the company’s annual income or the total cost of the salary. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we believe that by adopting this law we will contribute to the maintenance of economic stability and the functioning of jobs in companies severely affected by the epidemic. We will also prevent the deterioration of the social situation of the wider population, particularly the socially disadvantaged groups. The scope of the guarantee issued under this law will be EUR 2 billion. This quota is lower than in comparable countries, but if the need arises in the coming months, the volume of the guarantee may increase. For loans granted from the beginning of the epidemic until the end of the year, the State will guarantee up to 70 % and 80% of the principal of the loan, depending on the size of the company. It is expected that up to half a billion guarantees will be cashed in the next five years. The country with the said guarantee scheme is taking a large part of the risk, and we therefore expect business banks to do so properly and to provide assistance quickly and effectively to address liquidity shocks. This will prevent serious damage, ensure liquidity in the banking system and optimise public funds. With this guarantee scheme, however, it seems important to us in the modern centre Party Group that it is relatively simple and administratively less burdensome for small businesses. In addition, we are aware that, at the time of the outbreaks, municipalities have also suffered damage in various areas. That's why we're going to raise their averages by about 6%. According to the new one, the average for 2020 will be 623,96 euros per capita, which was still impossible a few months ago. The level of averages will be even more important at a time when the consequences of the epidemic will result in a fall in income and a marked increase in the expenditure of municipal budgets. The increase will also apply back from 1 January 2020 and the difference will be received by the end of May 2020. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are also delighted to support the provision that renters of business premises and business buildings owned by a country or municipality that has been prevented from carrying out economic activities by the Government at that time are not charged rent. Regrettably, this package did not include a measure in which the renter would also be entitled to a subsidy for private-owned rentals. We believe that the legal measures are a step in the right direction, leading to the targeted economic growth that we have set ourselves in the coming years and the stabilisation of the economic situation in the country. We also support the proposed measures because the proposals of the Modern Centre Party have been largely taken into account. On the basis of the above, we will support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party's proposal for a law in the Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The text is by a colleague of Luka Mesec for the Group of the Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u42	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! In Levica, the purpose of this law, which is to help businesses to maintain jobs in recession, which is most likely to follow the opening of quarantine, of course we support. However, this law has several problems that we have already pointed out on Friday and Saturday at the Committee on Finance, and I will repeat them in my position today. First. If we look at this law, we see that it's not as much about helping businesses as it is helping banks. The banks will be the ones guaranteed by the State for loans to companies, and companies are only the beneficiaries of this law directly. In short, this law helps banks in the first place, and we note that banks privatised in previous governments today, according to reports from all regulators, are still super liquid, say the full money received from public funds after the previous crisis and have no liquidity problems. Another time. The question is whether the aid will come to the companies. The criteria are too strict, according to our estimates, and are much stricter than in comparable countries. The company that wants to get help will not have to be in trouble before 31. 12, the credit will not exceed 10% of the annual turnover or one-time work costs. In Germany and Austria, by comparison, they are talking not about 10%, but about 25% of annual turnover and 2.5 times the labour cost, not the one-timer. This is also where our amendment, which we have tabled again today, goes. Next. The question is whether the law helps those companies most in need. These are companies that are not allowed to operate or that have reduced performance due to quarantine, because of the decline in consumption and so on. These companies today do not only have liquidity problems; they have problems covering fixed costs, amortisation, and their obligations towards suppliers. This cannot be resolved by credit, especially since these are loans that will have to be fully recovered from the country and the interest rate that banks can charge is not limited up. Last but not least, special attention should be paid to the hospitality and tourism that are most affected by the sector and where the question is when will they even be able to operate with full steam. In short, the country will need other mechanisms here. As one alternative that we can see elsewhere in Europe, we propose that the country strengthen its domestic financial sector, recapitalise the SID bank and raise it to a full-blood development bank to help the economy overcome the problems we will face, and we should consider when we invest in the economy, including the fact that the country acquires a majority stake in any of the banks recently privatised to have a leverage for systemic assistance to the economy. It's just for a little while. There are still some problems in marriage. The first is a provision on rents where all tenants, both natural and legal persons, in the private sector or who hire from private persons, are not entitled to aid, only those who rent from the State or from the municipalities are entitled to aid. And once again, this should also extend to the private sector and find a mechanism to do so. At Friday's meeting it was mentioned, in Austria, for example, in the case of epidemics, all responsibility falls to the landlord. The last one. This law contained things that had nothing to do with dealing with coronaryism. The first is that it interferes with what is called the Supervisory Board of the SID of the Bank, where it will now have almost exclusively the word Minister of Finance, the second is that there is a new way of appointing directors of public funds, where the Government again receives significantly higher powers than before and the third that the SID Bank may become some kind of new bad bank. These are the reasons why we cannot support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, colleague Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister of Finance, colleagues and colleagues! The new Slovenia will support the law on the provision of additional liquidity in the economy to mitigate the consequences of the COVID-19 epidemic. We are pleased that on the Committee on Finance, after two days of work on Saturday, this law was passed without a vote against. No vote against. This is actually the result of the Government explaining the concept of how to help the economy with additional liquidity, inviting a number of actors to participate and having thorough discussions with the economy in particular. In New Slovenia, of course, we thought, when we look at solutions, one of them is a ceiling, i.e. an amount not allowed, a total amount. The maximum total allowed amount of the individual borrower’s principal credit may be up to 10 % of the sales revenue in last year. We were wondering if that was enough, if this ceiling might not be set too low. Our answer is short-term enough. What about the long-term? No one has an answer to that question. Neither the European nor the Slovenian economy, nor the Slovenian policy. What does that mean? This means telling the economy that we will closely monitor how these measures will capture additional liquidity, how they will be effective. On this basis, we will then take appropriate action. We would also like to stress that this law does not guarantee the total liquidity of Slovenian business entities. This is about providing additional liquidity. Any smart business entity in a smart business policy has a liquidity plan. Of course, this liquidity plan will now fail, because the actual economy has stopped, and here now comes the opposite of this law, so Slovenian policy, if you want, the National Assembly, all together to help the economy. We are satisfied – as we promised – because the word applies to us – that in this law we will also intervene in the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Coalition Treaty, we have stated that we will raise the average for municipalities in 2020 from 589.11 to 623,96 euros. This is the same height as what we wrote in the collective agreement. It is the same height that we and the SDS colleagues proposed at the time as a compromise in the third reading of the adoption of the last law on the implementation of the budget – as you remember that night meeting of the National Assembly. Important information: the difference in the previous months is reported to the municipalities in the last week of May. Ladies and gentlemen, before 1 June, it will not be possible to launch economies at 100% capacity as before the crisis. Organisations such as the OECD and the International Monetary Fund warn that the crisis will be longer, that recovery will take longer and that this is related to when the vaccine or medicine will be detected. The OECD is even more pessimistic. It says that there is a higher risk assessment that the re-launch of the economy can lead to a recurrence of the epidemic. The German Industrial Association warns that it is necessary to think longer, at least until 2022. Maybe back again. Why the ceiling of 10 % of sales revenue in 2019? We must be aware, colleagues and colleagues, that Slovenia is a member of the euro area in which special rules apply. In this context, it was also imperative to respect the rules imposed by the Bank of Slovenia. But as it is said, this law does not help banks, this law helps and is intended exclusively for the Slovenian economy. I repeat, we will monitor how the provisions of this law will be adopted, especially if the economy takes a substantial longer time to launch than is envisaged today.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The text is by a colleague of Marko Bandelli for the Group of Ambassadors of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u46	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! The virus epidemic has hit the economy a lot around the world. The measures taken so far have mainly addressed the solvency of the economy, which has lost revenue overnight and its expenditure remains the same. The law before us is aimed at measures that will make liquidity possible. The economy is faced with a number of liquidity problems due to reduced demand, declining production, supply problems and acquisition of financial loans. The economy of measures taken to cover the costs of workers does not yet feel largely in its transaction accounts. As a result, companies do not pay invoices to other suppliers, cancel orders already given and fire workers. There's been a so-called domino effect. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for this domino effect. It is not enough to simply take measures if the conditions for the enforcement of the aid change every month and the procedures are counter-promising and complex. The essence of the law is the State guarantee for loans to be rented by economic operators in banks. The law sets out the conditions for guarantees adopted by the European Commission in the field of State aid to combat the covida-19 epidemic. Credits must be earmarked, companies must meet certain credit criteria, and in particular they must not apply to firms in difficulty on day 31. 12. 2019. The State only assumes the guarantee for a certain percentage of the principal, namely 80% of the principal for smaller enterprises and 70% of the principal for large enterprises. According to the principals guaranteed by the State, there are two additional restrictive conditions – the amount is limited to 10 % of sales revenue in 2019 but must not exceed the amount of labour costs in 2019. In the SAB Group, we understand that the State with the guarantee is taking a great risk, but we do not believe that these two additional restrictive conditions are appropriate. The European Commission does not provide that both conditions must be met cumulatively, but provides that the principal must not be higher or more than a certain percentage of turnover or of a certain amount of labour costs. However, the proposal for a law before us is completely unfounded and contrary to the rules adopted by the European Commission, it denies aid to companies whose labour costs were not high in 2019. In the SAB Group we welcome the increase in the average of municipalities from EUR 589 to EUR 623, even if the answer from where the money was not given, and the exemption of rent for business premises and business buildings owned by the State or municipality during the epidemic. It is recalled, however, that such a measure is not granted to renters who are privately owned and cannot use such premises because of the ban on activities, but are still obliged to pay full rent. Therefore, at the request of the Government, which addressed all opposition parties, we sent a proposal to amend the Bond Code, where such inability to use would have been adequately regulated for the business situation, which otherwise was regulated in more detail by an entirely inadequate 1974 law. In view of the fact that the National Assembly will also decide on the inadmissibility of the legislative referendum on the proposed law, we are obliged to draw attention to the change in the members of the supervisory board of the SID of the Bank. The referendum right can only be limited to the necessary measures to combat the epidemic. The change of the members of the SID Supervisory Board does not constitute such an emergency. The law amends the law on the implementation of the budget in 2020 and 2021. It shall introduce the pre-programmes referred to in item covid-19, on which the rights of use shall be ensured for the financing of all costs associated with the epidemic. An additional debt for the purpose of the covida epidemic raises the amount of the country's guarantee and the original 800 million raises the additional EUR 2 billion. The country will distribute a record amount of budget money within three months. In general, the budget reserve, which covers 1.5 % of the budget revenue, will not be sufficient, as the applicant is also aware. Since we do not remember such allocations of state money in the history of Slovenia, it is right that the allocation and use of funds is controlled by this specially established working body within Parliament. It is right that at any moment we know clearly where the funds will go and that very clearly control over [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u47	I'm afraid time's up. A colleague of Robert Polnar for the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The situation in which we are and is marked by a viral pandemic is not really that special. From the AIDS pandemic via bird flu, ebola, sarsa 1 we know that the world market produces in combination with poor health systems on huge surfaces and with a trend of non-compliance with the emergency vaccination needs of an inevitable severe and deadly epidemic. Today's epidemic is the most comfortable part of the world, marked by the attribute of the Western and mainly producing suspicious moanings and disgusting fools on social networks. It is clear, however, that it will be necessary to implement safeguard measures and, in particular, the time to prevent the virus from spreading to new hosts. The complexity of the epidemic is reflected in the fact that there is always an area of expression between natural and social definitions. There is no way between social definitions to circumvent the economic basis of which companies are based. The law on the intervention measure to provide additional liquidity to the economy to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic will allow its most important measure to ensure greater liquidity for state-guaranteed companies. A good ten years ago, Slovenian companies were faced with a financial crisis and with major liquidity problems, but the basic starting point, the need for additional liquidity loans, was different. At the end of 2008, loans from non-financial corporations amounted to €33 billion and €317 million and at the end of 2019 they amount to €22 billion and €461 million. Non-financial corporations are entering the current crisis with substantially less loan obligations. In the course of the financial crisis, State guarantees for financing companies were made available under the Guarantee Scheme Act from 1 May 2009 until the end of December 2010, amounting to €1.2 billion or 3.16% of the gross domestic product at that time. The current proposed level of State guarantees amounts to EUR 2 billion or 4.16% of gross domestic product for the period from 1 May to the end of this year. Translated into the language of business pragmatism, this means that, comparatively, for eight months this year, a higher level of guarantees has been set for businesses, irrespective of the fact that companies are in a better position with respect to debt than they were in 2009. Whether this is sufficient will be demonstrated in practice, and there is also the potential for an additional state-level increase in the value of guarantees if the needs for this are identified. In the Desus Group, we estimate that the proposed measure will be expected to result in an improvement in the liquidity situation of companies. The State guarantee constitutes a first-class guarantee and it is reasonable to assume that companies will be able to obtain loans more easily because they will be less risky in terms of their approval. Slovenian recent experience shows that in credit operations there is no liability on the part of the borrower, but at least equally in the case of those who approve the loan. Speed as a key element of effective support can therefore also lead to a risk of default. Banks wishing to obtain a state guarantee for the given loans will also have to bear part of the risks themselves. Other major changes concern the law on the implementation of the budget for 2020 and 2021. In doing so, in the Desus Group, we focus on raising the average for municipalities as a basic source for financing local self-government from 589.11 euros to 623,96. The calculation between the current average paid and the new amount will be made in the last week of May, raising the average will bring an additional €73 million to the municipalities. We know that this is still inconsistent with the requirements for the execution of statutory tasks. However, it should be taken into account that five months ago, when the average of 589.11 was established, there was a 2.5% to 3% economic growth in the country of the economic activity forecast, and today the recession is projected to fall by 8% to 16%. The Desus Group will unanimously support the proposal for an intervention measure to provide additional liquidity to the economy to limit the consequences of the epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors, the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'll take that as a yes. I'll set up the application. The application shall be made. Please sign up. It's not working. Let's do it again. It's a procession. Thank you very much. The first one has the floor, Mr. Minister Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u50	Thank you very much, President. Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to make some clarifications about this law at the beginning or after presenting the opinions of the members of the groups. It was pointed out that this measure is not sufficient to actually make it insufficient that the measures relating to the liquidity of the economy or the guarantee of loans to the economy are not sufficient. I would like to remind you that this law is part of the whole package, another package prepared by the Government to help the economy and people. Since I said the second, this means that we also have the first package, and in the first package we made the most urgent thing so that companies can postpone taxes and contributions so that they can postpone the withdrawals. They can actually do this in an easy way. In addition, we have adopted another law which actually allows for the deferral of loans. So from this point of view, once again, it's part of these two packages. In this second package, we are also addressing or supplementing the law, which will also help the economy, where we have actually achieved that businesses do not have to pay contributions. Once again, there is a lot of legislation that regulates the whole economy and, of course, also the social status of people. There's a third package coming if you want. This third package will mean development, will be developmental, will also resolve some issues in individual sectors and activities, including tourism. So from this point of view, this is a question on the spot, and it explained that there are more laws, more packages and so on. So we solve things completely. There are also questions about rents, in various parliamentary groups and so on. We save tenants here, where the landlord is the municipality, the country, the local community and so on. We're not interfering with civil law relations. However, I have already told the Committee on Finance that we will examine the proposal very carefully. This solution has already been in force, I know, for several decades, in Austria. I hope that this solution will also satisfy us. As we know, in Austria rent is not paid when there is a natural disaster, it is a disaster, an epidemic and so on. Last but not least, the lessors do not get a rent at such times, the state does not receive a tax on this rent at such times, so that this solution will also be examined in the third set. Then we also have questions about conditionality and conditions, and the criteria are too strict and so on. I'd like to say here about the guarantee, we're talking about the guarantee here, the state guarantee for the loans that banks give to businesses. However, we cannot talk about how, with what interest rates, banks are lending, we are talking about the business policy of banks. The state can't interfere with all the areas we want here. Then the state would become a bank. That's not working. This is not the case in the European financial system. It's also about regulation. We have here as small and medium-sized regulators or business policies – in fact, in terms of guarantees, there is nothing special. The government of the budget gives a 100 % guarantee to SMEs, and only if the European Central Bank, if the Bank of Slovenia agrees to the bonds, will these bonds be taken into account only in large companies. Only in big companies. We don't want to make any bad bank here. So, of course, from this point of view, we also expect that there will be no cashing out of so many guarantees. Also because the loans are actually directed to those companies affected by the epidemic that have to be put on their feet, but it is not a guarantee for, if you want, all the old missed investments that have occurred in the previous months or that have occurred in previous years that are said to have occurred before the epidemic itself. We never talked about this. Guarantee means potential taxpayers' money. If we say here and talk, I say so too, the money will be from the budget, which means the money will be from the taxpayers. Of course, you can say that money will also be borrowed. Yeah, but this borrowed money will also have to be paid by taxpayers. This is about actual help. This is about help and simply other money in Europe, it is not in Slovenia. It is about giving tax money to those who are more in need at the moment due to the crisis. I, too, do not think that this is a domino effect here today. Far from being a domino effect. Every day, I get information that some companies have started working to open production and started production. It is true, however, that some sectors here, I am talking about hospitality and tourism, those sectors that actually cannot work because of government regulations or local communities, municipalities and so on cannot work. They're definitely more affected. As a result, they are even more addressed in another law and receive some compensation. So from this point of view, I would like to point out that we are also looking at you, and we will also look at those who are most affected. Maybe that's it. In this law you have provisions relating to the specific recording of expenditure, costs as you wish related to the covida-19 epidemic. In this law, it is here that this will be recorded separately, or, if you want it to be otherwise, it has been particularly coloured in the budget, to know what it is, or if you want it to, to put it specifically on the special budget item where it will be done. At any time, the National Assembly has the option, not just the right, I will say anything that it may require at any time. I think that in another law we have already adopted a provision that the Government will provide data every month on how tax money benefits for expenditure related to the epidemic. From this point of view, I will be happy to transmit this information at any time, and they are already being specially recorded in this connection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word has Andrea Zabret to prepare Micah Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Vice President. The aim of the law that we are considering today is, in particular, to facilitate the acquisition of the necessary liquidity bank loans to maintain business and thus jobs, thereby preventing serious economic damage. Everything since the adoption of the first coronation law is the Government, and in particular the Minister of Economy Mr. Restovalšek has promised that the second corona law will be aimed at starting up the economy and ensuring liquidity for businesses. We were all looking forward to this bill, and especially to the economy. However, it has come, I must say, a cold shower and the law is unfortunately one big disappointment because, on the one hand, it is very good to protect the banking system because when banks lend under this law, banks will have very little risk of ensuring the liquidity of the economy. On the other hand, the law brings nothing to businesses where the main problem is not liquidity, but a changed business environment with a large decline in demand for crisis or the end of epidemic measures. These changed conditions will not only be able to manage liquidity loans, but mainly through a revised development strategy based on new markets, products and technologies, and of course through additional investments. New strategies or business models will need long-term and better support from the country through various measures as well as financial support. I ask what measures the Government will take for such enterprises, or the whole economy, to enable the economy to start up as soon as possible. It depends on where Slovenia goes. It is also linked to the fact that the Government is starting to release activities in which we can ensure safety of operation as soon as possible, thus preventing further economic stagnation, business bankruptcy, unemployment and the like. Today's bill is prepared late, at least one month for other countries, and will only enter into force in early May, at least one and a half months after the closure of a large part of the economy. As I have already mentioned, it is highly likely that marriage will not achieve its purpose. Large and good companies do not need such credits because they have good ratings and can at any time refinance their loans or obtain liquidity loans. At the same time, these guarantees only increase their credit costs and perhaps even the banks would give them a lower credit rating given that they would ask for state aid. Due to the difficult conditions of the best ratings, and similarly this scheme will not be available to businesses, independent entrepreneurs who would really need guarantees. That the situation is serious, the numbers also show. In fact, the last month has seen an increase in the number of unemployed by 12 thousand 111. Only in these days can we see a tragic story about the forgiveness of workers in Gorenje, more than a thousand people are to be forgiven. During the period since the adoption of the intervention law, 24 000 115 employers have applied for state subsidies, which means 285,000 655 employees, which means a good third of the people active in Slovenia. According to the Bank of Slovenia, 5 000 legal persons and independent entrepreneurs and 7 000 natural persons have also submitted applications for the Moratorium for repayment of loans. All of this shows that the economy is currently in liquidity crisis and severe or serious difficulties. We have already warned on the Committee on Finance that if we adopt the law as it is, there will be many problems in practice. The difficulty will be the level of granting the maximum eligible amounts for liquidity loans which will be too small for larger projects, and the problem for smaller companies will be a low liquidity loan which will be less than average monthly revenues and will therefore be difficult to overcome liquidity problems. To this end, we have also tabled an amendment to the LMŠ. I remember the words of the Prime Minister when he said there would be enough money for everything. This is obviously not the case and it is, and it will only be enough for some. What has disturbed us in particular is Article 9, which states that before the event of the default event, the bank can offer the Bank its claim to borrowers in the amount of the principal’s outstanding nominal amount to be redeemed. To this end, we have also tabled an amendment to the LMŠ, which adds the text that the borrower can agree with the offer to buy his claim. The amendment was slightly rejected on the board. I hope the coalition supports him today. I wonder, and I also asked the Minister of Finance why the bank would sell claims before the show and why the SID Bank would accept it. The answer was that in order to ensure the liquidity of banks, but – for whom is this law made, for the protection of banks or for the economy? Banks don't have liquidity problems and they have enough money. Recently, they wondered where to put their money, and they even wanted to charge interest on deposits. Now they have the opportunity to deploy these funds, and I hope that the banks will participate in preserving jobs and starting up the economy. I really don't know why it is necessary to take on the credit risk of commercial banks further in scale by the State and, above all, none of these banks are Slovenian, except NLB in 25%. All of this reminds me – and I hope that I am wrong, as I mentioned on the Committee on Finance – of the past banking recovery, when citizens without their own will invested in banks of 5 billion, and not to mention the destitute of subordinated bonds. Given that we are not the only ones in LMŠ who have thought about this, and that we have also heard from the finance minister on the committee that he has also received concerns from the bankers, it is said that this is not so innocent. And where there's smoke, there's fire. We would not want history to repeat and, as a result, the SID bank could become a bad bank or port for bad claims. It has been said that the law will be simple and that businesses will quickly and easily get credit, but entrepreneurs are concerned about the complexity of the law and warn that approval procedures will be all the more simple. Unfortunately, the whole law still has shortcomings and the speed of implementation of measures in practice and administrative simplification in asking for credit is key to the economy. We've already prepared some amendments on the committee to improve the law. And indeed we have tried and prepared good proposals in our opinion, but the coalition is obviously sufficient for itself and has not adopted any amendments to the opposition again. I hope today the coalition may support some amendment of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I will once again answer Mrs Zabret because I want to provide comprehensive information on this. I am really answering all your questions, at least I think all the questions, but then of course, if we take just one piece of my answer or just a few words, it can be put in another context or not fully explained and then it can come to the point that my words are not understood as they were actually said. First of all, I reject the thesis that, on the basis of this law or any other law, money will only be for some of what has actually been expressed. The fact is that the so-called European Union helicopter money, which was originally meant, will not. In other words, the European budget or institutions will not directly, directly finance budgets from the Member States. That was said. Here of course we talk about, I will say, very much, if you want, in my opinion of professional matters, therefore I think that this thesis will be just for some and so on, see, not correct. Then it's about who's actually taking the risk. Now you're saying we only care about banks here and so on. Of course, for part of these loans, Slovenia or the budget will take over the guarantee for these loans. If I didn't do it, we'd probably hear all the countries do it, only Slovenia doesn't. The provision that has now been discussed once again, why there will in fact be a transfer of the bond to the SID Bank – and yes, in order to increase liquidity, but, honourable Mrs Zabret, it will be in a few years' time. Credits will be paid in a few years. This will be when the European Central Bank or the Bank of Slovenia agrees to the regulation. And that's what I always say. I apologize to some because I just have to say the same thing, but because they rip out of the context of my word and then represent them in this way, I have to say it again. We must also take care of the stability of the financial system in five years or three years from now. And today, liquidity is fine. This law gives credit for a maximum of five years, and therefore we must also look to the future, we cannot only look at the present, what will happen today. The simplicity of business policy depends most on the simplicity of bank business policy. And here are the banks under the control of the Bank of Slovenia. So I repeat myself, for those of you who have listened to me for the fourth or fifth time is the same thing, but I have to be precise about these matters when my statements are interpreted. So once again, I apologize to those of you who listened to me for the fourth time.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word is Miha Kordish, prepare Luke the moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, chairman. €6 billion – so far, there have been difficult measures, including those we are dealing with at today's meeting, which the Government has mobilised to help people and the economy, as it is addressing itself. For the purposes of these measures, it has also committed itself. But consistently this month and a half, the same government shows what its priorities are in the allocation of these €6 billion. First of all, it's financial capital, banks, if you want. There's a big business in second place. In third place are fees for friends – we know what is happening with the purchase of protective equipment at the Department of Freight Reserves. And then, in fourth place, if at all, everyone else comes along, so be it. Similarly, the law at this point, which is supposed to provide liquidity, is no different. This is an example of the first government priority, i.e. supporting financial capital. For starters. These measures set up a very non-lifely sieve that will allow money to flow to businesses. This sieve should be repaired. Without that, we are dealing with the aid and support law for banks that are already very well-capitalised. Another thing that needs to be changed and what we are proposing in Levica is that we ban forgiveness for companies receiving aid. After all, for whom or for what are we saving the economy? Are these jobs or are they people or are they the profits of owners? After all, what is the economy we finance to support the profits of owners, not to improve people's lives, including job provision, quality jobs and breakthroughs? And finally, the third change that the socialists are asking for is that all assistance to the banks must be repaid. Because at this point, they can open champagne in banks. With this government and its management of the coronavirus epidemic, Christmas banks came a few months early. All the money that the State makes available to banks directly or indirectly must be reimbursed. After all, it is public money, it is public finances, it is the money of all citizens and citizens. If not, the aid must be translated into equity. Or if you want, the banks need to be nationalised through this assistance. Just as any other smart country would do that, which places first not the profits of financial capital and the financial sector, but the development of a domestic economy and a financial system that serves the needs of people rather than the profits of owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word is Luke the Moon, to be prepared by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u58	Thanks again. As I said earlier, the purpose of this law, as represented by the Government, is to call for a law to help businesses to maintain jobs, we support. I would point out, however, that this law is primarily intended for banks. In fact, the banks are the ones that will receive State guarantees, the banks are the ones that will receive risk relief if credit is granted. Example: If a large company leases EUR 10 million of state-guaranteed loans, it takes the risk of the state for EUR 7 million and the bank for EUR 70 to 30 for 3 million. Thus, it is primarily the bank which is the beneficiary of this law and only indirectly the company through a reduced interest rate. It is supposed to be reduced, but the problem is that this law does not set a ceiling on the interest rate, but in fact still leaves the decision on the appropriate interest rate to the bank and requires the company to pay the premium for the state guarantee. Our first criticism, therefore, is that in the first place this law is for banks, only in the second instance it is a law for businesses. Therefore, today, as many articles remain open, we are trying to bring this assistance to businesses, for the first time, by allowing businesses to benefit from the above restrictions currently granted by the EU, not loans of 10% of annual turnover, but 25% of annual transport, and not loans of one-time labour costs last year, but of two-time labour costs. Otherwise, we are concerned that this will be similar to the guarantee scheme previously mentioned by the minister, in 2009, which provided the economy with 1.2 billion guarantees, but remained largely untapped. I see here another similar year in 2009, and this is the time, if I say so, in the European Union or the mood in the European Union. In 2009, it was similar to the crisis several months after all European politicians became Keynesians. At the time, the guarantee schemes were allowed, at the time banks were encouraged to be rehabilitated, at which time Sarkozy organised meetings of the European Quartet of Europe’s largest economies and called for the establishment of a European fund to address the crisis together with common funds and for the burden of resolution not to fall on national countries, especially on small ones such as Slovenia. That was in 2009. But immediately after that, the mood changed. Germany and the so-called Northern countries have begun to pressure that there must be no joint resolution of the crisis until the Maastricht rules are complied with, until the countries commit themselves to the fiscal rule introduced by Germany in 2009, and so everything fell to national countries. The countries were the ones who, with their money, had to resolve their economies in extremely unfavourable conditions. As a result, Slovenia's public debt has risen to EUR 30 billion, through that crisis. The main reason, if we look at it from the beginning of the crisis until 2015, is that there was no common European crisis resolution. And this time, I think, unfortunately, although I must say that I was also among those who believed that the European Union or, above all, the Heads of State had learned something in the previous crisis – it seems that they did not. If one month ago we were talking about helicopter money and Eurobonds and so on, we now have the dictates of Angela Merkel, who is talking about how no aid can be irreparable, how countries must repay all debts. And we will probably also have pressure after the re-implementation of fiscal rules in a short time, and so everything will fall back on the ground. That's why we're repeating another thing, and that's also an amendment. The state must have that in mind. As Miha Kordiš said earlier, we are currently distributing billions and billions of public money, but it should be borne in mind that this money is likely to have to be returned due to the mood in the European Union. So the first thing that needs to be taken into account in this law is that this guarantee scheme must not mean a new socialisation of losses, says some new transfer of bad loans to the AIDS as a new bad bank. We propose that the guarantee scheme be organised in such a way that, in the case of the West, the State will, in return, obtain an appropriate share in the bank which has benefited from the scheme. This is our amendment to Article 9. Other countries, if you look at Germany, are entering their economies capital. I had just read the news that, among other things, Germany had decided to enter Lufthansa. In short, countries will enter the strategic parts of the economy led by the financial sector and I think there is nothing blasphemous if we also expect it from the Slovenian Government. This virus, as Robert Polnar had previously suggested at the beginning of his discussion, was primarily a virus of globalisation, in two ways. First time. The very globalised economy has caused the virus to spread worldwide in such a short time. And another time, which is more important. When the virus spread around the world and the countries switched to quarantines, it is said to be piloting, shutting down economies, the global value chains fell apart overnight, we came so far that countries developed such as Germany, Slovenia, Italy and so on were unable to produce both basics and face masks. It is said that a piece of goods with elasticity has become a product for which literally in the country's global markets have been beaten together. Joc Pečečnik stood in front of Slovenian journalists and said: “We have literally stolen masks.” In Poland you had a case of masks destined for Lombardia when there was a crisis, the Polish state seized them and distributed them into its system. We have come into this situation overnight, and I think it is necessary to prepare for the economy to be different after this crisis, that globalisation is likely to reach its summit and that the country will play a more important role in the future. I therefore stress that the state should start thinking in the medium term about how to establish self-sustainment with emergency medical material, how to establish self-sustainment with food. I really don't want to see a movie where countries would be fighting for masks, fighting for, I don't know, food or some other source. I don't think it's relevant to re-emphasize financial sovereignty. Europe is obviously turning its back on us again, and the Slovenian state should think about how to strengthen its sovereignty in this area as well. So much possible for a slightly broader comment of this law and measures forward. Of course, I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word has Robert Polnar, prepare Marco Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The question that we are dealing with today is what the economy needs. However, I think it is more important to ask what future different economy we need. This mental leap is a condition. That's the point. Relying solely on a private initiative and entrepreneurship within existing knowledge and creativity frameworks is already quite obvious in today's Slovenia. Those ways of thinking that we went back to capitalism 30 years ago are only causing us to fall back. However contradictory it sounds, covid-19 is a celestial flaw for the ruling Western political and economic structures. The pandemic will certainly have devastating economic consequences, but a major economic crisis would have happened without it. The outbreak occurred in September of the previous year, and the pandemic will be a convenient means of concealing this fact and, above all, of putting unpleasant issues under the carpet. Thus, the new crisis will not be blamed on the economic model of Western countries, which has not changed by a millimeter since the big recession of 2008/2009. The crisis will not be blamed for brutal budget savings or stagnation in the incomes of the majority of employees, nor will it be shameless to ignore the terrible rise in inequality. No, no, no. Because there's nothing wrong with the system except that the virus broke the idol. All major economic crises since the triumph of neoliberalism in the 1980s had the same cause – a large combined increase in household debt, state and economic operators. In the second half of 2019, global debt reached an incredible $250,000 billion and exceeded 320% of the global gross domestic product. These figures are well above the level reached in 2008 and have caused a crisis in a terrible relationship. And this system has been operating for decades from today to tomorrow. Money is continuously printed and interest rates maintained at an absurdly low level that we do not know in recent history. Old debts only come back with a new debt, but the unsustainable growth of corporate debt is slowly starting to eat and undermine the financial system. In the United States of America, in September 2019 a serious liquidity crisis began and additional large-scale money printing began. However, international organisations and global media have been pretending not to see what is going on. And then, fortunately, the virus came along. Unlike the previous crises that have been demand crises, today's crisis is both demand and supply, because there is a large part of the service sector. This is a combination that can only be encountered in wars or under international sanctions. With us today, we are arguing and studying whether 2 billion state guarantees are enough or not. Ladies and gentlemen, knowledge of economic development is very limited, and it is therefore advisable to be modest in policy-making and to be cautious in over generalisation. Normal wisdom is unstable in such situations and is regularly transformed into something else, perhaps even the opposite of the previous stage. Although her advocates are once again very confident when they impose new legitimacy. We often agree that economic development policies have not served their stated objective and have been based on bad ideas. We tend to say that bad ideas succeed because they are in the interest of influential groups and that this is undoubtedly happening. That this is happening is something everyday, at least from the classics of the Scottish political economy forward, and is happening with surprising consistency. That's the whole point. Bad ideas may not serve the stated objectives, but it is typical that their main architects will prove to be very good ideas. In modern times, there have been many experiments in economic development that make it difficult to ignore their common denominator. The designers usually do well, although the subjects of the experiments are often beaten too often. Slovenian knowledge and employment structures are still almost the same as they were 30 years ago. The economy that we are providing today with guarantees to rent liquidity-maintenance loans is still absolutely based on a poorly paid medium-skilled work. In the meantime, in transition, his move from at least medium-sized enterprises to our chaotic small sector was carried out. These technological structures are still negotiating an archaic value system of work, diligence and discipline. Professional, social and mental profiles are already completely anachronistic according to modern standards. All of this obviously does not apply to all the great people in the economy and elsewhere who actually keep things up. But what we're talking about is that, unfortunately, such people are in a large minority. We are also talking about the most influential Slovenian economy, its chambers and associations and its requirements. We will not come out of the crisis by the standards and powers of such an economy. The objectives must be set outside the framework of the existing economy, not against it for sure, but beyond the interests and requirements of the existing and unrelated ones. In view of the explanation we have heard on the Finance Committee regarding the proposed law, we have concluded that it is not only in Slovenia, but also in the European Union, where Slovenia is indisputably judged, and also in the European Monetary Union, whose member we are, the final end of monetary fantasies and that we are moving on to fiscal expansion policy, this means budgetary debt. What we're doing right now is just this and nothing else. The starting point of each applicable fiscal policy is the scope of public consumption. This dimension is not determined by the need for fiscal policy in itself, but by the needs of society for public services and public services. When public consumption is thus determined, it is in fact determined how much money is to be provided through taxation. In doing so, we must distinguish between long-term capital investments and short-term stabilisation policies. Capital investments must ensure a stable flow of investment projects independently of business cycles and short-term policies must strengthen stability by ensuring public sector business. One and the other aims to ensure a certain degree of automation in the management of long-term and short-term demand. And that's exactly what we're taking today. It is the fact that the long-term state intervenes in macroeconomic relations in a way that seeks to ensure demand. Ladies and gentlemen, when we are talking about potential debts of the economy or of the country, it is good to know that credit and debt alone are not a problem, and a much bigger problem is why we use them. Slovenians have a damn good experience from 2009 to 2014. Personally, I want these experiences to teach us historical lessons, although I do not have much hope for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u61	Thank you very much. He's got the word Marko Bandelli, get Tina Hefferle ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u62	Thank you, President, for your word. I will immediately refer to a few words spoken by our Prime Minister, Janez Janša, which is a guarantee of a high level of guarantees. Indeed, there are guarantees of a high level of guarantees, a respected Prime Minister of the Government – even if he is not here, but I think he will understand that. The tall ones, but to whom? Who are you headed for? Who? This law is certainly not intended for micro and small businesses to solve their problems. No, no, no. It will not save them because the conditions are so restrictive that no one will take or will not take advantage of this opportunity to take this system and this aid instrument. I am pleased that my debate on the Committee on Finance has fallen to fertile ground because I see the amendments to Article 5 here, and this is exactly what I mentioned at the time. I specifically said that these conditions are inhumane, not human. The evidence is that Austria and all other countries have higher levels. 10% on the market – what is 10% on the market? What's 10% on the market? What kind of credit is that anyway? What guarantee do you even give? And of that, you guarantee only 80% of that value. But even more absurd is at the expense of work. Are you aware of the cost of work if it is a material store or if it is a service activity? Those who have service activities will not need credit anyway, because they simply did not work, stopped and will resume their functions when it fails again. He can do that now. But trade has the maximum labour cost – I tell you, a medium-sized company that invoices a million to two, with five, six, seven employees, we're talking about 7%, of these 7%, the state guarantees 80% of that amount, I'm talking about 4 or 5%. What's that? What kind of credit is that? Praise to give 2 billion guarantees. Of course, probably to those you know exactly who will take it! That's why you put stupidity in there, which I still didn't understand why. Why? That they will be cash already you predict 25% of the cashed guarantees! [[…]] That's 500 million! In other words, citizens will understand. We'll give you a $2 billion guarantee, so 500 million will never be cashed. That's what it says in this article right here. I mean, he's not going anywhere like that. [[…]] Nowhere! You need to understand something — who is to blame. Who's to blame for stopping the economy? A virus? Okay, the virus, partly. It's the state's fault, in fact, it's the government that deliberately stopped the economy. On purpose. Because there are certain activities that did not have to be stopped. Why can hairdressers work now, but they couldn't work for three months? Technical checks. You tell me, technical inspection, what's the problem. A technical review – you are looking at only those three technical checks in Ljubljana, where 15 cars are inside, one car and one driver goes to the main technical checks, and the person who controls the technical checkup is in the cabin. He goes in the car, but he doesn't have to get in the car, and he could eat himself and look at the lights and say whatever it takes to make it perfect, and go under the car, without touching the car. Technical checks. Nonsense! Technical stores. You finally understood after we told fifteen times that they should open up technical stores because people are at home where they have nothing to do. They're coming out of their heads, people. They had nothing to do at home for two months. At least technical trade, I agree, one by one, as you have now done, it has finally come to your mind that you can do this so that you can open up certain activities. That's the problem. I understand, you've done well, I'll support certain things and everything it is, but I'm speaking in general – what will this marriage bring? He'll only bring those big ones. Micro and small businesses won't bring anything, and we'll be able to say that. You'll see when we control it. Second question, answer. I didn't even get it. We're all happy to have higher averages. Higher averages than where, from which item? Where are you going to move the money? We're talking about huge millions here. One of them's gonna get hurt, one of them's gonna get hurt, or he's not gonna get hurt. Will it go back out of that 6 billion-dollar credit bag? The only one, but is that a solution? Now? But you know that this case will go on for other budgets in other years, you'll have to get and get that money. The municipalities need money. I've talked about this before. It's like a hoax. Every year's plan, the institution raised 10% of its needs. Then you have to plier this thing and you get things done as well. I'm not saying it's an emergency. It's not always that way. The municipalities are urgently in need of money because of investments, if nothing else, because they are now blocked on this issue. But let's let it stop. One thing that really bothered me. I was really disturbed by the interest rate. Why do they have to pay interest rates? Six-billion-dollar package! Six billion-dollar package. If we give you 2 billion guarantees, your Honorable Minister. Not for another reason, but I'm asking you to understand. The average interest rate goes from half percent to 0.7% because it starts at 25 and ends at one. And if we do mean value, that's what it's gonna be. We're talking 10, 12 million interest. At $2 billion, with 500 million already written off — as it says here, you have written off 500 million — you demand that they pay interest on their own, an annual guarantee premium. What's the annual bonus?Oh, my God! That Europe can't, it's not true. Guarantee schemes are by municipalities. There are plenty of municipalities dealing with this instrument to help the economy pay interest rates to those who take credit. That is what I have done in my congregation. So it is not true that Europe says so. I think it's stupid, so I'm telling you. At 2 billion guarantees, at 500 million we're going to lose because you've already written that we're going to lose them, then 10, 12 million interest should be cashed from here. I also don't understand why the ban on paying those profits, the rewards, buying up the shares and everything that's needed, because someone can have a problem today, now, four months, five months, and the ban will be five years. Five years! Also because of this, who will not decide on this instrument and will go to different instruments. Because they're perfectly designed like this. I didn't understand. I still didn't understand why you would replace all six supervisors at the SID Bank. You. Your proposal, just you, the SID bank has now become on your behalf. Previously it was distributed to other ministries, and now it's nothing. Where's transparency? Is this a transparent matter, Minister? I don't think so. Because when only one person decides about one bank and this bank gets set up at 2 billion, I don't think there's anything going on here. I'm just gonna ask you a question. The last thing that's really cruel. I am most disappointed that the SAB proposal for the establishment of the budget fund has not been adopted. You answered, I listened to you on Saturday, I wasn't here because my colleague replaced me, but I listened to you – you didn't understand what the budget fund was. You were talking about some subitem and item and that you have multiple items that are going to go away. That's why the budget fund is being made! They did it when there was an earthquake in Bovec, and everything went right through the budget sub-account. It's one budget account. That's not one item, that's what we were gonna say. Everything, everything – control over the allocation and use of funds, all in one place. Isn't it your interest to prove tomorrow that everything is clear? But if this is not your interest, as is happening with masks now, as is the case with latex gloves – after 97 euro package of 100 gloves that we sell at the store for 6 euros 50! We sell them. I've become on POP TV, I've given them a direct offer to see what it's about, that what we're talking about isn't stupid. People are disgusted about this! We can't believe it! I don't understand this – why don't you do the budget? That would be in your interest, in the interest of our country, the taxpayers. Control! At any moment, we'd have control of it, and we'd immediately block our mouths, at home, to anyone. No, there's got to be 14 wires, no one's gonna know exactly what little they're coming out of! Just like you don't know about the mask affair. I'm glad I set it off because they did something amazing. Great! We'll do more if we have to. But we will also praise what is commendable. Because a lot of things are commendable on your part. I've always said that. There are certain things that are very stupid. Things aren't being studied. So I welcome the colleagues you've moved on with Article 5 with this amendment. I hope nothing will be accepted, I'll tell you in advance. [[…]] 130 amendments on the board when he was – no amendments! And you're not going to say that the amendments are wrong. It was the same in the first coronation, and then you did the whole second coronation because half of the stuff was already in there. So much for me. I'm not gonna answer about this marriage anymore, I've already said my thing. Thank you very much, Vice President. Good luck. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u63	The word is given by Minister Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I would now like to respond to a few discussions. First of all, I think Luke Mesca – the mood in the European Union – is linked to 2009. In this respect, the European Union has not responded in a uniform manner, and we expected direct inclusion of money from the European Union institutions in the Member States' national budgets. That didn't happen. Some called it helicopter money. Actually, that's not what it is. What happens to this fund that's being prepared, we don't know exactly. The Heads of Government have agreed on this, but these final structures are not yet in place. Because of this, I have already mentioned this, and I will repeat here, we must rely primarily on ourselves. In any way, we must lean on ourselves; we must also help others who are in need of such assistance. Of course, we must do everything we can to be self-sufficient, if you want, on these fundamental issues, which have also been discussed here. I think there are no direct comparisons here between 2009 and this year, although the consequences can be similar from this point of view to the crisis, recession or whatever we call it. Of course, there was no common opponent at the time, so to speak. Today there is a virus in the epidemic, but the answer is about the same as it was then – each country in its own way. By recognizing that some funds that offer opportunities for money do exist. It is probably true that things after that will not be the crisis as they are today. After all, people are changing, and now I wouldn't go here with some sociological research on this, especially because there's no time for that, or I don't have it because I have a limited time. However, it is likely that business, people, businesses and so on will be different. At least that's my personal evaluation. From this point of view, these issues are, of course, topical as to how fiscal rules will start to be applied again or not in Europe. I certainly don't think they can take effect at once, or I'll say so the next day. Here I think this virus has hurt too many countries, or not too many, many countries. A lot of countries are in a bad place about this. I will not now mention which are worse than us and which, in a better way than us, we all have this information at our disposal. However, it must be said here that it is not possible for them to take any action on the fiscal rule again at once or the next day. It can be said: over so many years and so many years or more, the fiscal rule will have to be enforced again, and over so many years and so many years, the other criteria set by the European Union will also have to be respected. Nevertheless, here I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is already in the Fiscal Rule Act itself that when the crisis is over, the state, the Government and, of course, the National Assembly must confirm or not confirm the plan when we come back to the green branch, when we will follow the fiscal rule again. When we report to the Fiscal Council, then we will also make a plan when we will once again comply with the fiscal rule in this rule laid down in the law itself. I don't know about this epidemiological science, how it's being solved, but about these allegations that we've closed everything down and so on, I think they're unjustifiable here. It's human life. Human life is over money, over capital, there are more, if you want it, and therefore today I find it difficult to determine whether certain activities should be left behind, as for example, technical checks have been mentioned to operate or not. It's human life. And if you look today at the differences between the countries that have taken such measures and those that have not, there are statistics, you will see differences in the number of deaths. I will not now mention here some countries that have not taken any measures that have not closed the inn which have not closed public transport, which have actually done nothing, and compare them today with the number of deaths there. But if we're talking about death victims, there's probably no closure of one activity that's superfluous. If that's what we've done to save any fatalities. So we're talking about some other things here, we're not talking about capital, we're not talking about money, we're talking about life. That number, which is in the law, better said in the explanation of the law – here Member Bandell would have warned that it was not a matter of marriage, it was an explanation of the law. This is an assessment of the possibility that a quarter of the loans will not be repaid. This is done at the professional starting points. Thus, from this point of view, the Government is obliged, according to the regulations given by the National Assembly, to give a financial assessment to each law. If a financial assessment is not made, the law cannot be dealt with in the National Assembly. We did this on the basis of professional criteria and professional starting points, so from this point of view this is it. But I do not want it to be here – one euro to go. And when we talk about this on the one hand and on the other hand, how to relax the measures or those provisions that speak of 10% of the loan or that the credit can be for a maximum of 10% of the revenue, we need to know, of course, that if we extend this, there will be a risk that there will also be more non-returnable loans. This is not the case – I will point out once again, money goes from budgets, yes, money goes from other taxpayers to some taxpayers. That's the difference. Budget money means taxpayers' money. We and you are redistributing this money here because of the crisis, to help those companies that have the opportunity to survive, who have the opportunity to work extra. That's the purpose of this marriage. Here's to higher averages. That's 70 million, so much higher averages at the annual level cost. It's a financial effect. With regard to the fact that there are certain costs in the law itself – this is a question of state aid and must be mentioned. And as to what the Minister of Finance can propose with regard to the Supervisory Board – yes, the Minister of Finance may propose six members following this proposal, one Ministry of Economy. But he's not determining, he's proposing to the government. The government then determines and there are all the other ministers. That's it. It's for punctuality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word is Tina Hefferle, prepare the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u66	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. I will not be long in my debate, but my fellow Members have already commented in detail on this subject on both Friday and Saturday. So I would comment on that part of this intervention law that stands in my eyes again, not in terms of good content, but in terms of abuse of the Institute of Intervention Law. I have carefully studied the law, which is supposed to provide additional liquidity for the economy, and I have also closely monitored Fridays and the Saturday Finance Committee, which dealt with the law, once again grieves me with one fact. This law, like that first anti-korona law despite its intervention nature, contains changes that permanently interfere in sectoral or systemic legislation. In order not to be criminal, it is certainly appropriate to say that some of the solutions in this law are good, those are urgent and suggest some potential to help at least some economic operators cope with this liquidity crisis, which they have been in because of the coronary crisis. Oh, yeah. While in LMŠ, we wanted to upgrade or substantively repair some of the solutions, my fellow Members will tell more about them. What bothers me most as a lawyer or if you want to be sad is that the government in this law, which is an interventional nature, as I have already said, is once again undermining changes in the system's legislation which are and will remain as a change in legislation as permanent changes. This is about changes that do not reflect the urgency in anything or at all any capacity to do anything to help solve or prevent the crisis created by this new coronavirus, or to contribute in any way to the better liquidity of the economy, which we are taking in substance today. As I have already said, this is about such changes that are constantly changing systemic legislation and have been framed in this law in exactly the same way as they were planted in that first anti-Korona law. If anyone can explain to me today, please explain to me – Mr Minister, this is mainly on you – how the change in the appointment of members to the supervisory board of the SID bank helps to increase the liquidity of the Slovenian economy. This is one of these changes of a lasting nature in this law. Mr Šircelj, Minister, on the Committee on Finance, has repeatedly been asked exactly what I have now asked him, but he has neither responded to this question nor tried to justify such articles in the intervention law, let alone to convince any of the others that this is justified. This is not just me or my fellow Members, and this is also recalled in his opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Let me quote a significant paragraph in her opinion. I quote: “We note that the provisions of Articles 19 and 20 of the bill amend the provisions governing the composition of the SID authorities of the bank and are not related to the amortisation of the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic, so they go beyond the content of the bill.” Next: "The question arises whether the proposed provisions can be considered as necessary measures related to the elimination of the effects of covid-19." So the government won't tell me anything about these warnings. Consider clearly the fact that in these articles it exceeds the content of the law. Moreover, hear even warnings about the constitutional dispute of the announced decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum. We know that the Government wants this intervention law to be voted on. This is also clearly and loudly pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service in its opinion. Let me quote here one paragraph of this opinion: “The inclusion of other content could result in the constitutional non-conformity and excessive application of the constitutional prohibition of the referendum and interference with the right to referendum”. And then after all this in the opposition, let us believe in some of your benevolence and the transparent functioning of this government. Nevertheless, despite the warnings of the professional services, you are adopting legislation that introduces inconsistencies into our legal system that violates legal certainty and intervention legislation and the necessary legislative procedure, as I have already said, you are using them to amend laws that do not judge and that are permanent. Mr Minister, and all the other coalition Members who support such behaviours, in this way, I think you are putting your credibility below the level that is still legitimate at all. In this place, indeed, Mr. Minister, I ask you once again to explain to all why these changes are necessary for the appointment of SID supervisors of the Bank for this intervention law, why you are regulating this in this intervention law, and how we help to improve the liquidity of the Slovenian economy, precisely with this change regarding the appointment of SID supervisors of the Bank. I hope we are all aware that everything is not allowed on behalf of the epidemic. We have been alerting the opposition to such unhygienic practices for a good time, and I hope today for some reasonable reason and explanation why this is so today. But I don't believe you'll convince me, Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Meira Hot, get Edward Paulic ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Members has already made a real effort on the committee responsible to improve the bill we now have in the debate, but there has been no hearing, there has been no hearing again. Today I think we're getting a little used to it. We're trying another amendment today, but I'm saying, according to what we've done so far, it's probably a Utopia to expect you to confirm this amendment. Let me begin by stressing that one of the key facts is that we are simply in serious delay with the adoption of the liquidity package, that today, when we discuss this, many micro and small enterprises do not know where to get the funds for wages, they do not know where to get the funds for the current costs, and many other additional reasons are that they are engaged in the daily battle with the blockade of the economy and the virus. That is why it is all the more understandable that they were really looking forward to good government solutions in the direction of real liquidity provision, in the direction of direct financial support and not in the direction of a guarantee scheme. Unfortunately, they are so much more disappointed today when they see that everything is available, just for a guarantee from the state, of course, with extremely strict conditions and re-administrative obstacles. And if I said that time is one of the fundamental problems, let me say that time will be an even bigger problem, because it is a fact that for those who will still meet the conditions and will be able to ask for the guarantee scheme, that the approvals themselves will, of course, take some time again. Since individual credit committees decide to prove that there was a potential injury, well, this will, of course, take some time. And it will certainly not be possible to obtain a guarantee and a direct loan in a short time, which is what is crucial at the moment. And now we have been waiting for about two months for a liquidity package, which I believe should be the first step in this chain, and today we are deciding only one guarantee. At this point, we are also wondering where these 6 billion of these measures are actually going. Because if these measures were correct, they would not, for example, record a 63% increase in the unemployment rate in Cyprus. Since one of the main objectives of these measures is to maintain, maintain and maintain businesses. So you start to wonder what are the real goals and whether we are achieving them. I am simply now doubting the effectiveness of all these measures. If an individual undertaking finally meets these conditions that you have set, it will again run into the next obstacle, and this is the amount of the potential loan, which is, of course, limited to the percentage of last year's revenue. If the objective is to ensure the liquidity of the economy, this is to follow the aim of maintaining the highest possible employment rate and preventing the loss of economic activity, then the maximum possible limit on the amount of the loan to 10% of last year's revenues is absolutely too low. Simply in practice, according to the structure of the business costs themselves, they would only take into account the lower limit expressed as a percentage of annual turnover. Most companies have a labour cost of more than half of their income, sometimes reaching 80% or more. While the measures to subsidise waiting for work are mitigating part of the costs borne by employers, the liquidity aid should now be aimed at covering other costs other than labour costs. For example, reverse capital, unfinished investments. We therefore propose and appeal to you to consider and support this, that at least a little help should be given to the real economy, so that the loan limit should be increased to 40% of last year's turnover at the same time as the company's total labour costs. This would, of course, prevent abuse. Once again, we hope that you will at least be listening here and take one step forward to help the economy with our common strength, really, but not just on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word is given by Edward Paulič, to prepare Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. In LMŠ, we had several substantive comments and proposals to improve this law on the Committee on Finance, along with the opposition, but unfortunately they were not adopted. I will not repeat them today, but I would focus on an aspect which I think makes this law to some extent inconsistent. The red thread of the law is a guarantee. The law provides that a guarantee shall be given up to a certain amount of the principal and that the total amount of the guarantees given shall not exceed EUR 2 billion. The law should also set out all the conditions under which the guarantee will be given and to whom it will be given. And it is stipulated that the guarantee will take place ex-lege, i.e. under legally fulfilled conditions. Here we come to the content of a law that I think is controversial. The law provides that the fulfilment of the conditions for obtaining the SID guarantee by the bank shall be checked subsequently, i.e. after the granting of the guarantee. There are no provisions in the law to define how banks can really know that the conditions for granting the guarantee are met. It is not clear enough how the guarantee will be confirmed that the banks will know that the quotas are not yet exhausted. What happens when one of the banks submits an application to cash out the guarantee after the quotas have been met, and the borrower fulfils all the prescribed conditions and submits its application in due time? How to proceed when the SID bank finds that the conditions have not been met? In short, it can be difficult to enforce this law in practice. Last but not least, we know that the State guarantee under the Constitution is only permitted by law and the law must be established, clear and predictable. This is the only way to ensure a standard of legal certainty. The law in the work relating to the notification by SID Bank of the Ministry of Finance of the use of the guarantee quota does not constitute a sufficient and effective arrangement to guarantee that the quota will not be exceeded. Then there is the issue of credit contracts that have been concluded prior to the validity of this law and can fall under the guarantee under this law. When banks make loans under this law, the conditions for allocation are likely to be different from those of March this year when certain companies took loans due to the effects of the coronavirus. All these inconsistencies in the law in certain parts unfortunately make the law uncreditable. It saddens me that the coalition or the proposer of these amendments has not fully eliminated these concerns. That's why I can't support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Today I will discuss in particular the things that I did in the first package in some way, mainly because it was the first package and because there were so many promises and, of course, also warned: “Everything that was not in the first will appear in the second. Don't worry, the money is enough." As for the words that rang in my ears, and I didn't believe them, but now I see it holding: “The money will be as much as we need.” Although most imagine that the money will be enough, but in fact this word “if we need it” means that whoever evaluates as much as we need it will. What does that mean? This means, in other words, that, my dears, forget that you will compress all your ideas and goals that you have set yourself into the first, second or future third package, because money will go only for what the government will assess as meaningful and smart. Of course, this does not mean that it is the only salvation and right. I still point out that with the first package, when we open our wallet wide and in the second package even more widely for a wide variety of unnecessary things and distribute it among citizens, there is very little excuse for a person to understand why we cannot give it where it is urgently needed. Before I mention at least two cases, let me say that it is increasingly and more showing how the form of this law, this package is not actually appropriate and that it is indeed a fantastic example of how, in such a form, under the word of the crown, you can compress a lot of things that do not belong to this crown at all. In fact, you are hiding because it is clear that it would be very difficult to justify this by means of a single law and very difficult to defend against the National Assembly. In this way, you simply force all those who know that there will be in this package, first, second and third, a few resources that will target and hit the target and target group, many things that will not happen, but being against this package means being a national publisher or destroyer of all the "good" that we are actually doing with these packages. Now, to the point. I, however, am trying to question the Minister that he did not want me to answer certain questions in the first package, both at the committee and at the plenary session. I hope that he will now directly answer me when I ask him a few questions on specific cases, how I would explain it. Because I know that I have invested a lot of energy, that I have also looked into my sources, what the preparatory group has been thinking and proposing to this government, and where some things have stopped and literally disappeared from the agenda when it is decided what will happen. Specifically. I believe that many of my colleagues are thinking differently, but nothing about it, I am sure – because quite a few economists, entrepreneurs have called me and asked me to explain to them what we mean by not actually taking these steps. The difference between credit and leasing. Today, not today, I have already listened to the committee and also to the fact that we talked between colleagues about how to get rid of what is owned by the economy, the economy of the basic resources. Of course, leasing is not until the lease is paid off, or even less if it is a business lease. By its own understanding, but the Minister, now I specifically ask you: tell me which company, given the example of the car carrier, will decide on the credit and buy a heavy truck, whether it will do so with a loan, which will be viewed on a balance basis from the point of view of the business, significantly worse than the credit, because it will not only have the cost but also the depreciation and all the other things, or rather take away the lease, which, of course, it will pay off with its business and eventually become the owner of this truck. The theory that if the leasing could not be repaid is that the house could not be leased — it is clear that this could not be given anywhere. Maybe this applies to some strip for a printing machine, 30 meters long, twelve-colored, eight-colored, where the leasing house is hard to afford to do, even though they do, and take it away, but will somehow try to negotiate with the printer if it assesses that he is able to pay it off. But if it is not, it will not be, and, of course, it means that, unlike others, the country has allowed this job or this company to sink. Automobiles. I don't know any truckers who buy trucks with credit. I don't know. If you know them, tell me. But that means what? So these motorists lose their trucks, they lose their business. The deal will go on, just not with our companies anymore, but with other motorists. Is that what we want?Oh, my God! Will we hide under the form of “let us save our economy”? I mean, that's what no one's been wanting to answer me for three weeks, including you. And that seems extreme to me, I'll say, an unusual economic recovery. But we are ready to give every student 150 euros each! And we can't explain why. I don't want to tell anyone else. The other thing that I think is from the point of view of rent. Today I have heard this impossible word again, "we cannot or must not interfere in civil relations". Yeah, I'm sorry, we're also in a civil-law relationship with credit, and we're reaching out to a lot of people. Now I don't know if we're making the difference between one and the other again, but I'm increasingly sure that if I've had my doubts before, now I'm more confident that we're actually protecting these banks. And this, interestingly, is being protected by those who actually had the most to say through these banks and talked about the set, the plots, and I don't know what else is going through these banks. But now they're insanely protecting them. Why am I saying this? Whose house is the leasing? Or are they leasing the house, I don't know, and the three of them sat together, and they set up a leasing house? Most of the leasing houses are from banks. And let's stop pretending! Yeah, where'd they get that house leasing money? Yeah, from the banks. The banks set them up for another reason. So that if anything goes wrong with these leasing houses, as we already know the cases, it won't happen to the parent bank. So who are we protecting now? Who?Oh, my God! Porn. Of course, I agree with what my colleague Marko said about the part where he talks about colored money. But today the minister has already said it – he said it a little differently, in any case it's colored money. That's right. The fact is that no minister – a finance minister, this does not fly on you, it flies on all the ministers so far who have been – does not like to hear the words of the fund. Because the Minister of Finance has a bag of money there that can't actually be touched, he can't redistribute it, he can't put it anywhere. Because it's painted, it's called. And that's the real color money. But if it's on the budget line, you, the minister, with the powers you're about to receive, you can do whatever you want. Whatever you want! And what's even more interesting, you don't have to ask any ministers, because they've already given up so we can have a word on this. That seems like a dangerous thing to do. What we're actually doing and what else we're doing. Not to talk about the SID Bank – that is really incomprehensible. I must say, I'm surprised that the Minister of Economy may have agreed to this, or disagreed, I don't know, we'll get to that. But it seems to me a very dangerous thing to do is to concentrate so much money in one person, but we know that she won't be able to breathe if at least one of them doesn't agree, and that's the Prime Minister. I must say that I am very unhappy here because we simply do not want to solve these two questions and do not want to. Rent. This specifically means tourism, which will pay the most for this branch of the economy. All these small, one-timers who have had their own agencies and have arranged tourist trips and so on and have business premises to rent will die. Who does that suit? The big one. More and more, I'm sure we're just defending the big ones. Is that the point?Oh, my God! We have already proven several times in the National Assembly, and every government, including you, Comrade Shircelj, when you were still a Member, is almost one third of small, micro-enterprises that bring very serious money into this budget. Tax money. Today, we have heard three confirmations from the minister, where he taught us a little about tax money all the time. We know all this is about taxpayer money, and all the money we're talking about here is just taxpayer money. It's clear to us as a white day. But the goal we want to achieve is something else. Now I'm wondering if we're saving property or saving the economy. What about leasing and renting? What are we gonna do? This seems to me to be the question you received in the group of answers, but since we are more papal than the pope, we know the thing to complicate until disability. I'm here, Minister. I'm really appealing to you. I know it's not all in your hands, but I also know there's a lot in your hands. But one question before we decide on such serious matters will have to be given very clear answers. Let me finish with this form of zifa crown to make it more understandable what I was going to say. Interestingly, the Legislative and Legal Service warns that there are quite a few provisions that actually have nothing to look for in this law. Why can't we hear it? Why we don't know it – because I know that every thing we can look at from one perception or from another perception, but to determine who will decide on this money seems extremely inappropriate to me. What is even more important, Minister, is that I am not satisfied when you say very simply: “You will have, once a month you will have this information and you will be able to control.” What am I gonna control? You will place me above the facts that have been accomplished. That's the point. The passports will be by the time I get or all of us colleagues Excel's table: “We needed it, we needed it, we needed it. Do you mind? Even if you have, what do you care about, it is our executive branch of power and we work with it.” In the end, however, you always add the phrase: “You have decided to do so in the National Assembly.” So when is it time to point that out? Now it's time. Because after the afternoon, the buttons for the night are pressed — the game over is called the ending of the story. Then there is one year, by the way, because you agree with me, Minister, that the budget we adopted last year is no longer at all, because with this system we are now accepting, we have already overrun, changed, and it is completely different. [[…]] I'm actually disappointed because there are some solutions that move things and I can commend them, but I didn't get the answers, and I'm disappointed because there's simply no more hearing about it. Poor all those who fail precisely because of what I'm saying today. Poor thing. And they'll be right when they point their finger at all of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can see that. I'm opening the application. Please. The word is Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister! Perhaps it would be easier if there was another minister sitting next to you in this Chamber, another minister in charge of or covering these articles, which are in these two laws. At the very least, what I would expect is that the Minister for Social Affairs would be present, and the Minister for Economic Affairs, who in some ways cover the segments most affected by this legislation. However, I do know that the Minister of Finance must, however, keep an eye on budgetary spending. I am aware that if all of us together in this Chamber, as well as you, Minister, were to ask three months ago whether it is possible for this country, the whole of Europe, to come into chaos like this, would probably all say that this is impossible. We're aware of that. And in two months, we just reacted the way we did. Whatever we do today, we do not know what will happen to the economy in one month, two months from now, to budgetary spending, to all that we are talking about today. I am aware that when we talk about the economy, we have several branches of the economy and probably all the economies have not been harmed by this epidemic. One of them has been working normally all the time, one makes even profits, we will talk about it in other sessions, one is completely closed and simply because of the decree they cannot make a single euro of traffic and so on and so on. The problem is that we do not solve the key problems in this society by means of this law. The guarantee is now okay, the companies will take credit, those who will be able under certain conditions that we have written down inside. Whether these conditions will be sufficient or not, I think not you, Minister, but we do not know this moment, but we are aware that this moment should be more generous in helping the economy, more focused on certain branches of the economy and rescue. The fact is, tourism and hospitality will hit the most. Even if we open on 15 May or end of May and open on special terms, many will wonder whether, under these conditions, they will be paid to open the inn at all or not under the conditions set by the epidemic. That's gonna be a big problem. That's gonna be a big problem. Second. Not to mention some measures that are illogical to me right now. Yesterday I watched TV, the photographers say we can't have photographic studios and so on, but we can have other things open. It doesn't make any sense to me. We open golf – I'm not a golfer – and we don't open up congregations to get to this golf course at all. I mean, these are measures like this, and we open them up so that I don't think we know exactly what we want. It's not your job, Minister, it's not your job, but I'm interested in being very exact: why don't we save a small economy in order to get one part of their rent back or the whole rent back? We have a bunch of entrepreneurs, craftsmen who have their own – and we have also made an amendment – companies in large centres throughout Slovenia. You know how many big centers we have in Slovenia, they're closed and they're counting rents. And they're not doing a single euro of traffic, and they're gonna have to pay these rents. We're not going to save them by just giving them a loan guarantee. If we have saved all the groups where it is justified, in my opinion too, where it is unjustifiable, this part of the rent should also be saved. We're talking 10 million euros. For all the funds we have committed, this should not be a problem and perhaps a large part of a small economy, a small enterprise, could be solved. Such matters, it seems to me, are still large and should be possible — not you, but the Minister of Finance — to engage the economy more closely and to resolve the economy in this way. Because this moment is the only chance in such a way that a state with indirect interference, if I may say so, saves part of the economy. Because so, with guarantees and so on, it is likely that some will simply not be able to afford these loans. And they'll say the market will do its job. Yes, yes, but this market, this economic crisis did not arise because of bank holes, because of economic issues, this crisis was caused by a health crisis that no one has been affected by. And that's why I think countries should react not only in Slovenia, but in general in a different way. Of course, you will say, you are in opposition, we are in the government – all of this is true, but sometimes a well-intentioned proposal would be well received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I welcome this debate. In a similar spirit, she also held a two-day meeting of the Committee on Finance. I'd like to draw your attention to a few things instead of an introduction. As is a very drumming debate, colleague Bandell – unfortunately, he is not here now, but I have the right to argue with him – how did we actually ban technical checks with the government regulation. On 16 May 2019, it is said that the year has not yet passed, is mag. Alenka Bratušek, then Minister of Infrastructure, issued the Regulation on technical inspections of motor vehicles and trailers. This rule needs to be read, and then Mr Bandelli will understand what I am talking about, especially Article 18, and some other. That's a good rule. The good book was issued by Minister Alenka Bratušek. If anyone thinks that these measures we are taking will be in those 40 days, since we have the Government to fail because of these measures – see, such a debate does not seem credible to me. And I apologize to all those who find themselves in this statement. Remember, within 100 hours, not 100 days, within 100 hours, the government prepared a package of measures to help the economy. To this day, what have we done for the economy? Everyone can look at it, and the one who is objective will quickly see that we have enabled the economy to decide on the payment of taxes, contributions, moratoriums on the repayment of credits. Now comes the law on providing additional liquidity to the economy to mitigate the consequences of the covid epidemic. It is only about measures to mitigate the consequences of covid-19. Yes, indeed, those companies that have unfortunately had problems before the epidemic for such and such reasons are certainly only tiny or underwater today, and we cannot solve all companies. The government, coalition, government or National Assembly cannot accept the function of management of all Slovenian companies. It's not working. And thank God it's not like that. I also listened to the observation: “Yes, we have been waiting two months for the law on aiding businesses in liquidity.” Two months? Wait a minute, it just needs to be added up. April 21st is the date of the law that we are now considering, which was then adopted by the Government and sent to the National Assembly. So, after 39 days, since we have this government, the government has sent this law to the National Assembly. My colleague talked about two months. She said she'd been ahead of schedule for 21 days. Come on, let's be a little more specific here. As far as the units of measure are concerned, this is not the topic of the last time that I listened to my colleague that we had congregations measuring a few square meters and that the Municipality of Odranci – this has touched me especially because I come from Prekmurje and my neighboring congregation – measures seven square meters. It wasn't a lapsus because this unit of measure was repeated twice. So a little bit of detail, but I'm sure all of us, especially our citizens, can expect to have a little more precision in these discussions. [[…]] A lot of people call me, like you probably do, and so on. Yes, there are many dissatisfied ones, many disappointed ones — why I didn’t get it, why my brother didn’t get it but my cousin didn’t get it and so on. It's always so, I'm so old, I have this experience. If you share money — not your own money — yes, that is taxpayers’ money, indeed — you may have half the contented, half the disgruntled, but none of the grateful. But it is not a matter of gratitude to the Government or coalition, it is not necessary, God forbid, it is a matter of gratitude to taxpayers, to those who, in some awe, fill this state budget. And here in this whole story, which is very difficult for our people, it's very difficult to be literally locked inside your congregation or within your home or apartment in a block in a city – we in the countryside are still oh, we do have a standard as far as that is concerned. But in all this thinking in this climate, I can think of a German proverb that says like this, and I've already discussed it on the Committee on Finance: "Some lose when they win, others get it when they lose." Very meaningful. And if I compare myself, if we compare what the foreign is doing to us, to comparable countries, to our business partners with regard to economic assistance – here we are about somewhere on the same or the same mechanisms, how to help the economy and citizens to pardon the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic. The fact is that, unfortunately, before 1 June, the economy will not be able to start up at 100% capacity as before the crisis. We are all reading what they are reporting, what are the estimates of the International Monetary Fund, the OECD, the European Commission and so on. We all know what the German Industrial Association says, which warns that it is necessary to think for a longer time, for longer, at least until 2022. This anti-Korona package 2, which speaks of additional liquidity to the economy, is in fact aimed primarily at providing rapid liquidity assistance to the economy. Quick. This law can actually live before it was adopted, even today, when it has not yet been formally adopted in the National Assembly. Of course, the State Malha has financial limitations. With this, the country assumes a large part of the risk. We believe that business banks will effectively provide liquidity aid to this appropriate fast and economically. Following the example of other countries, in particular Germany, the country has also developed a guarantee scheme. We must stress that fiscal space is not unlimited. It is State aid, aid to the economy by taxpayers and it is necessary to be aware that these funds will have to be reimbursed at some point. The aid is intended for companies in difficulty as a result of the crisis. It's a crisis. It is not just that or intended for those who have been in trouble before, that is, before the epidemic. We must, of course, think about getting out of the crisis today, as other countries are also thinking. Our guidelines go in the direction that production and services must be provided as soon as possible, taking into account all health protocols. On measures to ensure additional liquidity for the economy, the structure and purpose may be simple, following examples from other euro area countries. We want to stimulate banks to lend to the economy, even at the time of the economic downturn, yes, even at the time of the economic downturn. We all know that when the economy cools down, it is difficult for the economy to obtain liquid money from banks if there is no such mechanism as this law brings. And, yes, as well as New Slovenia itself, the Christian Democrats, who are sworn Europeans, believe in the case of the European Union, the project of peace, today we are also disappointed because this European Union has fallen into solidarity, and the crown bonds will not be, which means that we will have to help ourselves. What we have in common, according to the common European agreement, is EUR 540 billion, if we divide it, we allocate Slovenia in a kind of gross national income ratio, we see that Slovenia belongs to around 2.2 billion. We estimate that the measures are good and will also be supported by the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Get Jure Ferjan ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Before touching the law itself, I must admit that I cannot go beyond touching the discussions of previous debaters. It is difficult to understand that this bill, which is before us and has a very significant title, is meant to ensure the additional liquidity of the economy to mitigate the consequences that individual parliamentary groups have mentioned in their presentations that they simply do not support this law. It's perfectly legitimate. But what I find incomprehensible is mainly because it is a law that is intended, as it is shown in the title, by structure and by content, to the economy: large, small, medium-sized enterprises. Whether you are aware of this or not, this is the problem of those parliamentary groups. And once again, it's not a political law. What's kind of incomprehensible to me is that it's about the content of liquidity loans that will be approved by business banks. As a rule, these business banks are not owned by the Republic of Slovenia, given that in the past periods we have already talked many times in this medium about the miraculous five billion and, interestingly, there are no epilogues to this day except for rare cases. In some debates, what somehow connected is that this is now a great evil. I am in the position that the owners of the bank, as a rule foreigners, are more responsible and have a different position and policy of approval in credit relations than has been shown these 20 years in the Republic of Slovenia. I think there's probably going to be another opportunity around this. What I really missed, and I hope that one of the discussers will also be touched further, is the essence of the content of this law. The substance of the content of this Act is very clearly set out in the introductory articles, which means the financing of capital. Whether we understand it now or not, because these political debates contain everything possible and impossible, especially associations, how it will happen that many will not be justified and so on. Significantly for the political debate of individuals, who, I can say, very critically does not go into the content itself. The reverse capital, irrespective of the form of a legal person, is one of the main issues for both large, medium and small enterprises. The fact is that their product, their product or service is still important on the market, which is usually carried out by employees, but here we are discussing the financing of capital. So that I don't talk about paying off the liabilities of credit contracts, which is very clearly written down, anyone who wants to read it can read it. What is crucial to me is this so-called investment cycle, which means the completion of already-initiated investments, investments in fixed assets. Do we want to have new jobs or do we want to preserve existing jobs or not, respected policies? What matters to me in this matter is that there is simply no debate about the very meanings, the liquidity of the company, what is the insolvency, what is their cash flow, which we know as cash flow, that I will not talk about the importance of the credit relationship between the entities, is said to be the lender and the borrower. I'm talking about a legal person, a company, society or esp. And at the end of the guarantees, I will definitely touch them with a few words. But before I go to the very content of my debate, I will allow myself a few more comments in view of the previous debaters. The reason for this law was that there was also a provision, which was defined as a foreign, concerning the supervisors of the Bank’s SID. Dear Members and Members, I ask you – who has the right to replace supervisory authorities at any time? I'm not talking about the authorities. The supervisory authorities are the supervisory councils. I think that at least in this point we will unify, irrespective of the different political views of the professional view and the interests that this right will be exercised by the owner on a case-by-case basis. I think there is no dilemma or debate in the private sector. In the Republic of Slovenia, however, the last 20, 25, 30 years is an eternal problem, but who is the owner of the state property. But the truth to the loving, every-time executive branch of power, and that's the government. And what's the problem here? I don't understand. I would be happy to have any discussion on this subject. The fact is that in the governments so far, including previous governments, and so on, everything has been through the problem of appointing state-owned property managers. I think that this will certainly be the subject of this mandate on any mandate committee. It was said that loans approved by business banks were slow and similar. Here I must admit that I am very critical of this kind of thinking, because a lender, a bank or a store that has enough or even too much money has some interest in quickly lending its money that it manages. It's not owned. It's in management. This is said to be a business bank in today's situation that is still quite interested in lending money. In this case, when we discuss the provision of liquidity for businesses, the borrower who will request it is certainly of great interest under certain conditions to conclude this legal business as soon as possible. What's the speed problem here now? I'm in the position that the response will be very quick. Why some feel that my thinking or debate is not going in the right direction, why I strongly argue that these transactions will take place relatively quickly in this so-called credit relationship. We must all be aware that legal persons operating in the Republic of Slovenia have at least two or more so-called open accounts in different business banks, which is also right. Doing business in several banks means doing business with their cash flow and, on the other hand, allowing them to choose the business bank offering them the minimum costs of doing business itself, managing their assets and also the most favourable interest rates if a debt-supply relationship or credit agreement arises. This means that business banks already know their financial flows and business very well from the past. How interesting they are, not today, they might have already approved a loan yesterday, a liquidity loan for those in years, even earlier, and even when this law clearly states 31. 12. 2019 and legal entities micro, little, however, I will not go into this anymore, it is very clear something, final accounts are made and also their balance sheets show well how successful business was. I think it's only matured with malicious political rhetoric. Just one more thing, because there was a lot of talk about whether there would be a lot of bad claims on the side of the SID bank. Here I have to strongly oppose all those who are pushing for the SID bank to become a bad bank. I'm in the position that it just can't happen. Why not? Those who have read this law are very clear and also written down by procedural rules: the role of marriage. And that's the SID bank. The SID bank will enter the SID bank as a marriage in the event of default by the borrower, which is a legal entity, if it fails to comply with its obligations under the credit agreement. And, Your Honor, here perhaps someone would have thought that there was a slight deviation in their damages, I'm speaking to legal persons, but no, the SID bank is a solidarity wedding, not a subsidiary marriage, if we're already talking about the very contents of a guarantee. This means that at the first call, without any excuses, objections or procedural objections, he will pay the person who borrowed the money. Discussing what is also involved in an amendment in order to involve the state in any way in some capital injections by banks and so on, I think it is a matter of individual amendments. But what I wanted to point out was something. Every business bank before granting credit, individual business, and I think that the Members, who in the past have concluded some credit contracts, have faced one clear fact: that before payment, they lend money, everyone is interested, in particular the bank, in whether the entity wishing to have a loan is creditworthy. And when we touch legal entities, one of the key issues is whether he will be able to repay the liquidity loan received. I am convinced that this is how both business banks and SID and the guarantor think, and the Government, that, before granting the loan, the borrower, in this case an economic company, will certainly want to prove, on the basis of the annual business plan of the previous year, that it is now unable to function well because of the epidemic and not the other, not because of the market situation, not because of its own mistakes or business strategy, and that the bank will be happy to attach evidence to the contracts concluded, let's say, for the supply of goods, what is the financial flow immediately prior to the epidemic in the first months of this year. Not to say what the plan or already investing in this so-called means of building business facilities or making goods or contracts for services is. It is said that, if I conclude at this point, it is simply imperative that this law be adopted. Indeed, as I said at the outset, I do not understand that individual parliamentary groups do not want to help the economy, but they refer to the non-acceptance of individual amendments. There is still time to find that individual amendments may make it easier. But for starters, this law should simply be in production as soon as possible, if that's what I can call it. It's over. Good solution to the government's proposal, including those counselors you had, the Commission and I believe you are working intensively further, but in the area of hospitality, tourism and the like, assuming that anything might have happened in this law, that in these processes of credit relations would have happened so that it could be improved, of course you would be happy to come and support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Member Jura Ferjan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u80	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, honourable Members and honourable Members! In front of us is the antikron package number 2, which brings assistance to the Slovenian economy in the form of providing additional liquidity. The basis or core of this law, as we all know, is the Republic of Slovenia guarantee of 70% of the principal credit for large companies, large enterprises and up to 80% of the main credit for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Why is that important? This is important that business banks are further motivated to help solve the crisis that will occur after the exit of the Coronavirus epidemic. The banks are today, thank God they're stable. They are also stable because, in the past years, we have invested quite a few billion taxpayers' money. As Mr Finance Minister said, the banks are stable, their liquidity and capital adequacy are good. Such a situation must remain, even when the economic crisis strikes and when we overcome that crisis. This is important that we do not have to resolve our banking system again. In this way, banks, business banks, will contribute their very important share in solving the potential liquidity problems of Slovenian companies resulting from the covid-19 Coronavirus epidemic. Respected and respected, this will preserve the potential of the Slovenian economy, thus preserving jobs in the real sector in the Slovenian economy and thus preserving the vital elements of the social state in which we live. Allow me to touch another very important element of antikron package number 2. This is an increase in the averages for Slovenian municipalities – I am talking about a total amount – of up to €73 million. I am convinced that all of you who have been involved in a local story or in a congregation may have been or may have been municipal councillors that you can agree with me at this point that any additional funds for the congregations are extremely important. I come from the congregation of Tržič myself, and before I sat in the branch office, I served as a parishioner. Municipality of Tržič, this measure in the anticorrosive package number 2 brings an additional half million euros in 2020, which is a huge amount of money for the municipality of Tržič, which has between €12m and €14m of annual budget, between €2.5m and €3m of investment potential. I am convinced that the rest of the congregations feel the same way or the same way. In addition, I would like to add that all measures taken at local level, which are specific solutions, are even faster and more directly affecting the lives of citizens and citizens, in fact, of every citizen and citizen. Allow me, on this occasion, to thank all the municipalities and their leaders once again for their efforts, for all the measures, for all the assistance, for the time and also for the funds they have devoted to incarceration, and so helped the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly, so that today we can say that in the fight against the coronavirus we are also comparable to other countries in Europe and in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u81	Thank you very much. One final debater in this round, Ambassador Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u82	Thank you very much, President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Law itself speaks of three facts in its title or, above all, in its contents. Firstly, it facilitates the acquisition of the necessary liquidity and bank loans for the economy to maintain business and thus jobs in order to avoid economic damage. That's the essence of this law. However, if we only look at the content of the law and the conditions under these articles, we unfortunately find the opposite. It will be very difficult for companies to obtain liquidity through bank loans under this law, and loans will also be expensive along with guarantees. We are all reminded of this by a number of companies and associations. Large companies will still need smaller companies in the supply chain as a service service. In the past, we have given – and developed – very important to the development of the Slovenian economy itself. However, from this law I fear and expect a wave of unemployment, we expect a steep fall in GDP, greater than the rest of the countries will have. The measures have significantly worse conditions than other European countries that have already taken measures, these measures are already effective, and businesses are already benefiting them, this is important. The level of guarantees compared to GDP is among the lowest among European countries in Slovenia. Mr. Secretary, we therefore rightly ask ourselves, what is this government's strategy with this liquidity aid intervention law to the economy, and how will you tackle the increasing number of unemployment, human trauma and their families who will lose their income from employment? Where do we get the resources to cover this employment facility? Dear Government, if we do not know ourselves quickly and effectively to start the economy side by side with other countries, this city will be filled by companies from other countries. In this way there will be more outflows or flight of capital from Slovenia, and there will be fewer inflows to the Slovenian budget, to health care, to pensions, to the municipalities. I am afraid that in the crisis, we will lose our position or share of GDP across the European Union average, where this GDP amounted to 86% of the European Union average for 2019. And this share has been successfully increased in recent years. Therefore, Minister, so many proposals with amendments to this law. LMŠ also made a number of proposals. I will now stress once again: in Article 5, we very much want the maximum amount allowed, the total amount of the principal credit of the individual creditor, which the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for fulfilling under this Act, to be up to 25 revenues from sales in 2019, which is, of course, in line with the European mechanisms. The second condition is that we are still trying to extend the possibility of these liquid assets to twice the amount of labour costs for 2019. With this, we want those companies that are more capitalised and have less labour costs, that they are also coming, and these are those that are achieving higher added value towards those companies that are labour-intensive. This seems very important to us. Dear Minister, another very specific question. Of course, we are following the example, watching what other countries are doing, and I believe that your government too See, Germany has committed 100 billion euros, which are available for direct entry into the ownership of businesses. This is some very important strategy. However, we see from this law that Slovenia did not use it. Why have you not made up your mind to do so, or perhaps you have yet to do so? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who would like to discuss the matter with Ambassador Trček? I see that there are still a few things to discuss, so we will start with the application. Four reported. Before I give my word to the first debater, he gets the word "minister." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I would like to answer a few questions, or dilemmas, even though I have already answered some questions and may repeat them. First of all, leasing and credit, this was the question of Commissioner Möderndorfer. Look, I think the difference is clear. The difference is that there is a transfer of ownership somewhere, not somewhere, it is simply an economic use of that asset, which is leased and legally remains the same as it is. But the MP also found that most of these leasing houses are owned by banks. And on the other hand, if he's holding this obvious that we're only helping banks, then this isn't going together. This way, on the one hand, we help banks too much on the one hand, and on the other hand, we want to help banks even through leasing. So I'm not quite sure what this is really about. However, the Association of Banks has even published on the website information that the issue of leasings is being addressed well. I've been informed of that. There is this information that leasings are being rescued in an accelerated way to be rescued by banks and so on. Now, here's the question, whether it's for every leasing customer to solve this or not, that's another question now. But there's definitely some civil relations here. On the other hand, we're talking about rent. It is also necessary to look at the structure of the lessors who these lessors are. Because we're also going to save the tenants with rents at the end of the day. I have already stressed that I know some companies and individuals that have agreed to resolve the rent issue. That means they just made a deal. On Saturday or Friday, the committee asked how they save their rents in Austria. And, yeah, I like the idea of how they solve it. Borrowers do not charge rents during times of crisis, during epidemics and any other extraordinary event. This is already a very old provision in Austrian bond law. And we will examine this solution in the third proposal. Since it's perfectly logical, everyone has a share of these costs. Some renter, some country that doesn't get taxes from these rents. So here this issue is certainly in connection with rent and leasing also very much linked to banking. Why? In view of the fact that banks have acquired, on the basis of contested claims, poor claims and so on, these properties, which they may bear at certain times, are likely to be acquired at certain times not. At certain times, they prefer to have these properties on their own, either as a subsidiary or as any other company, not at certain times, depending on how their balance sheet matches and what is good for them. So that's not the way it is now, I'll say, completely independent questions about these leasings, rents and so on. But we're going to explore the Austrian version of how all of this actually works there. I'd like to say the following here. Some of you have also said that this law will increase unemployment. This law will not increase unemployment. This law will further ease the increase in unemployment. Whether it will reduce, it is difficult to say whether it will reduce potential unemployment. So we can look at less vision, more vision, but the purpose of this law, by a perfectly sound logic, is to reduce unemployment, because it will increase liquidity, because increased liquidity will start to operate, production will start and so on. I understand that the opposition Members must present the whole issue in black, but the purely logical fact is that this will reduce the unemployment trend, or that there will be no more unemployment. Comparison with GDP in 2019. See, there is no comparison with GDP in 2019. Not for Europe, not for Slovenia, not for anyone without taking into account the decline in GDP due to the coronavirus. It's not. For the first time because gross social product has fallen and for the second time because public debt has increased everywhere, so has we. Of course, you can make comparisons for 2019, but in disregard of these two facts which are, those data are actually uncomparable.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Member Elena Zavadlav Usaj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished minister, very well greeted! In the proposal for a law, it is essential to save businesses that have done well until the outbreak of the epidemic. In their primary activity, the epidemic has either stopped or even stopped them completely and measures to ensure the liquidity of companies are essential. The guarantee that the Republic of Slovenia will provide to businesses will not only guarantee liquidity, but will also preserve jobs, which is essential. Therefore, citizens and citizens will also be provided with a level of satisfaction that they will continue to have a job, as this will not jeopardise their provision of basic living conditions – payment of bills, purchase of food and basic necessities of life. Unfortunately, however, the measures of the law cannot interfere with civil law relations as some would like. Therefore, it was also not possible to write down those rentals which were regulated by private contracts, as this would result in a loss of income on the part of the undertakings which granted the real estate. As the Minister has said, there will be further solutions to how this area can also be addressed by amending legislation. However, we cannot impose on companies the obligation to maintain jobs if aid is used, as this would risk the existence of a variety of companies, because a company does not know to what extent it will be able to continue its activities, but it certainly knows that it is not in the same time as before the crisis caused by the coronavirus. Once again, the coronavirus and not the government. That is why we cannot and must not interfere with employment in companies. I would also like to point out higher averages for municipalities, as this rise is essential to address the current collapse of certain income groups in municipal budgets. In doing so, I must point out that some municipalities will have some income losses for a long time or even permanently to a reduced extent. Here I am referring in particular to those municipalities that are damaged by the lack of concession fees and tourist tax revenues. Therefore, the specific cases of municipalities will certainly have to be addressed in the third package, and I am sure that the government and the consultative group will also consider this. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, we are primarily responsible for supporting this bill today, as companies will be able to get help as soon as possible to address liquidity problems which unfortunately could not be anticipated. Finally, I would like to say thank you to the government that this package of measures is very fast too – I stress very quickly – and has prepared quality. Of course, we will always have those who criticize each solution, even though it is good. However, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are proud of the government's work and we consider the proposal to be very good. As I myself have received calls from entrepreneurs that we need such a law as soon as possible, I am even more confident that the proposal for an additional liquidity law will support the economy to mitigate the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic for the benefit of businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The text is by the Member of the Commission. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u88	Yes, thank you very much for your word. Firstly, I must repeat what I have said several times that the government is not just the government of the SDS, it is the government of all citizens and citizens, and the task of Members is of course a critical opinion. And the law is a long way from being good. Secondly, if we listen to what the SDS Member has said before me, it will be clear to us that these measures, which are a little bit like this, where the Sava is pouring into the Danube, would be called the Grandma Sware, some measures that will only partially postpone unemployment. No one has said today that we will regret this crisis by showing that we have a mildly said not exactly happy structure of the economy. That's what Franczek Drenovac was talking about. That the other Janša government preferred to deal with what we call Taiwan's privatisation, but Cerar's government was doing some kind of expensive model instead of dealing with what I've been alerting the minister for the entire mandate, which says that he is doing a great job – with a smart specialisation strategy. It's gonna blow up in our heads. And now say that you will stimulate the banks, because colleague Verbič said nicely that the banks are no longer in our possession, they are mostly foreign institutions and will only be able to save what can be largely solved by itself. The question is liquidity. The question is the cash flow that stopped. We'd need quick solutions, we'd need to think about what the differences between sectors are. In this direction, we would also need to think not only about the investments that have started, but what would be appropriate new investments, because we currently have an economy that is too much based on the fact that a man, a worker is a sausage, as I say, and is too much of a cost. We'd need non-biocratic solutions. Consideration should also be given to reducing costs, including rents and stimulating consumption. Yeah, now we have to be Keynesians. And, of course, we would also need the appropriate skills of the means, as Meira and Mark and others said. As it is written, to a large extent they want to destroy medium-sized and small businesses, even though they represent most of the businesses in our country, so that – I don't know what – someone has flown in if I put it that way. As far as the EU is concerned, the minister says the EU has not reacted. Yes, a baptized mother, who is the EU? Germany and a few countries are holding us fast because they want to further weaken and destroy, in particular, the French, Italian and Spanish economies, as well as some small economies. Let's stop fucking around. I'll tell you what. If Janša is sitting in front of a monitor, let her open her mouth properly, if she does. Talk only about re-globalisation. Globalization is a complete system. We will not get rid of it, but there will be some reflection on what strategic raw materials are, what are the strategic parts of the economy that work at home. I know one of the leaders, and he's also an entrepreneur, a German Social Democrats who's working on it. Legislation is also being drawn up, according to domestic information, what will not be sold to the Chinese. And now, in the end, if I touch these averages with which you boast so madly. Comrade Ferjan, if you were a mayor, you know very well that there are a number of municipalities that have the scope of mandatory tasks far beyond how much money they get in redistribution. I come from a congregation that draws shortest. Maribor municipality has obligations of more than 20 million more than it actually has a municipal budget. The other macro region in the country is always disadvantaged, literally having its development eggs cut off for some time. And there's a law on the bench from the Sharchev government that would save $30 million. Maribor is not the only congregation. There are 47 such municipalities in Slovenia. Almost a quarter, 22%. For the past six years, I have been saying that after a quarter of a century, we need a reform of local self-government so that we cannot have a congregation balance because, of course, it is illogical. And I'm not the same football team. Some societies, even in times of crisis, which provide a measure of welfare for all, not just golfers, are companies that are also involved in times of crisis. But we have a government that is essentially exclusive. I've been listening for five and a half years, you SDS guys are geniuses, Vojko Starović is here now, he said, and we're all assholes. My colleague Verbic was talking about legitimacy. Ladies and gentlemen, at 9 a.m. and 10 minutes from Thursday onwards, this government no longer has legitimacy and credibility. Except for that minimal part of the blind believers who will examine and overlook. And that's the problem. And now you're going to be mixing things up and putting your people and RTV and the SID bank, and I don't know where. The important thing is that they're yours. In a client where only the boss thinks. Enoumje is a very quick shortcut to stupidity. And that's what you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Member Boris Doblekar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Yes, interesting discussions, mainly motivated politically, mainly by the Left or former members of the Left, who then go to other parties [[advertising from the hall]] . That's it. That's kind of hard to listen to. It should be noted that this proposal for an intervention measure to provide additional liquidity to the economy to mitigate the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic on the Finance Committee, at the meeting of the working body in the National Assembly, did not vote against. Things have been set up well, the ministry, the Minister of Shirtzelj has worked very hard, including the government itself. It has worked with various institutions, umbrella organisations, and there have been many proposals on all sides. Many have also been taken into account. Of course, no proposal can ever be taken into account, but in most cases these proposals have also been covered. The measures are ready; it is essential to help the economy to ensure additional liquidity in order to enable businesses to take credit if necessary. Little was surprising to me the last time I listened from some banks, and there were some problems in public that banks were not too inclined to lend. Just before this crisis, we've heard that we're going to have to start paying the deck chair so we can have the money at the bank. In short, I'm not getting along here. But I believe the banks will work hard and go to the companies to make it easier to overcome all these problems. Solutions are also offered as regards the rents themselves, as Minister Šircelj has already said. There have been many of these mutual arrangements, as far as rents are concerned, so that these rents are not charged at the time of crisis. I believe that most of the restaurants, salons and so forth have made such arrangements. At least that's what it sounds like on the ground. It is very welcome that people cooperate, listen to each other, help employers as well as tenants or owners of these areas or spaces that are essential for the economy to function. It must be said that despite the crisis, money has been found, the government has listened and has also taken into account our proposals for raising averages. In the previous government, the municipalities and mayors did not find that the averages would be raised for these necessary funds for investments in municipalities, and it is also very important that the municipalities can then apply for tenders. This increase in averages will be very useful for all municipalities, whether small or large, every euro would still come well, especially at this time when investments should also move quickly. If I only mention my municipality, Lithium, which will acquire some more than half a million funds this year, and the neighbouring congregation of Šmartno near Lithuania, which will receive close to EUR 200 000. These are actually very welcome funds that the mayors, but not only the mayors, including citizens and citizens, are already very happy. So this measure should be welcomed. If I look again at how the country itself has been prepared for such a crisis as this Coronavirus crisis, and if we look at other countries across Europe, especially those more developed, with pre-prepared scenarios, many scenarios, including established different funds and reserve measures, which are then activated, we have been terribly disadvantaged here because we did not have similar measures. Of course, there is still a lot of work to be done in our country, and such things would also be very welcome, so it will probably be a major school for the future. So I welcome the Government's extraordinary efforts to address all the problems arising from this epidemic. I also welcome all the comments and proposals made by citizens and citizens, by the various institutions and also by the opposition. It is true that this law, or that these measures are already so ready, is hard to add, but any proposal is still very welcome. However, we also know that the government is in favour of all initiatives and proposals and that if a matter is not fully taken up at this time, as the government has imagined, then things can be corrected in return. I must say, given the responses of the economy, entrepreneurs and citizens themselves, that I am pleased that such good measures are being prepared. Slovenia is one of the best, most advanced countries in Europe, or even on a global scale, which is actually good, it has been very successful in dealing with this coronary crisis. I hope that the government will continue with such intensity and seriousness. However, I certainly do not want to see as little stumbling as possible, especially those who are miserable, those who are infertile, who do nothing at all, help to make the government easier and better prepare such measures, which then help all of us citizens and citizens, and especially the economy that we need to keep in shape. The economy has to work, people have to work, wages have to be, and the taxes that then flow into budgets have to be. I support all these proposals, and I can only wish that the government would continue to do so well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Replica, Ambassador Dr. Trcek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. I'd say in Fujina, "You can't believe it." The MP says "this is the most brilliant law", but at the same time he says "if it is accepted, it will be accepted if it is not accepted, but we will come with a third or a fourth package". You know, if you're going into artificial fertilization, you want it to be taken as soon as possible. But I wanted to say something else, Comrade Doblekar. It's me, and I'll still be left-handed. They didn't throw me out of any party like your big little boss. And I'm not asking any customers to take me back to her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The last one reported is a Magi Member. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u94	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! I am convinced that the Government is taking action in accordance with the laws and with the measures proposed. The fact is that all the measures taken by the government or the government propose to do so go primarily to one objective, namely, to curb the spread of covid-19. If Slovenia compares itself with the other countries of the European Union, Europe or the world, we can find that we have one of the lowest infections in Slovenia and probably one of the smallest deaths in the case of the other countries, both in the European Union, Europe and the world. This leads us to conclude that the measures proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are successful. They are also successful because citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia respect these measures. The fact is that Slovenia has recently adopted significantly less drastic measures than comparable neighbouring countries in both Europe and the European Union. The fact is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is gradually easing all these measures, and is weakening them mainly with great caution and in particular with the aim of maintaining the trend of the virus, which we have successfully plagued so far, in the future. The fact is that neither the Slovenian government nor the other governments have some magic sticks to save citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenian companies with one measure. However, I am convinced that all these packages, which have been adopted in Parliament so far, I am also convinced that these two laws that we have on the table today will also be adopted, in particular, towards one goal, namely to limit the consequences of covid-19 for both citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and for the economy and to preserve jobs. The law we have before us is about ensuring additional liquidity for the economy. The government is aware of these problems and has taken action to ensure that the Republic of Slovenia assumes the guarantees of loans that will be leased by companies to banks or savings banks. The fact is that the government thus assumes this guarantee risk, the risk that credits will not be repaid, thus allowing companies to provide liquidity. I cannot agree with some of the debates that some opposition Members have had so far to work for the greater, less for the smaller. In fact, it does not hold, it does not hold on to the adoption of this law. The government is aware of this and therefore proposes significantly higher guarantees for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises compared to large companies. All previous laws have also gone in the direction of priority resolution of more vulnerable groups in Slovenia, not least in the case of a single pensioner allowance, a one-time supplement for other vulnerable groups. First of all, the need to help those most vulnerable groups or smaller ones is seen here. The fact is that this proposed law will also be of great help to all Slovene municipalities. The fact is that this law raises the averages of Slovenian municipalities by about 6%. This means that instead of €589 per capita they will receive €623, which is an important step forward so that Slovenian municipalities can implement all the legal provisions in a qualitative manner. At the very least, what is surprising here is the fact that it is mainly by Members of Parliament and Members of the Social Democrats. It must be said that you rejected a proposal from the Slovenian Democratic Party in this Chamber some five months ago, which had already anticipated an increase in the average. At the same time, it should be pointed out that five months ago there were significantly different times than they are today. We were at a time of conjunction, we were at a time of economic growth, and yet you rejected this proposal. Today, however, you probably do not advocate this proposal more in the light of the opposition party than some party to the reality or say that these funds are too low. It is also a fact that the proposed law will ensure that all tenants owned by local communities and countries do not have to pay rent during this epidemic, which is, of course, the right measure, a measure that will burden a large number of tenants. The fact is that the State in the civil sphere cannot directly address the bond situation, which is why I am already calling on the Finance Committee on the Ministry of Finance or on the Government to ensure that, on the basis of Austria's example, it enters into the bond law that, in the event of emergency situations such as epidemics, war situations, it is recorded in the bond law that the lessee assumes the burden of renting himself in such a case. The fact is that with such a measure we can relieve a lot of people, but the fact is that legislation must also be prepared for the future and the state we are witnessing to today, we can be again in the near future. I am convinced that these measures are appropriate, that measures are being taken gradually and that all these measures will be able to ensure, above all, that businesses can continue their work and that businesses keep their jobs. There was also some debate and controversy about the dismissal in Gorenje. Two ministers of this government are already visiting this factory. The fact is that forgives in the Gorenje factory are probably not due to covid-19, but mainly due to all business decisions made in the past. I am pleased that the Committee on Finance has adopted this law without a vote. Today, I am surprised by some attacks by opposition Members and Members on how bad this marriage is. The fact is also that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has sent all opposition parties to review this law and, in my opinion, there has been no response from opposition parties. When the marriage comes to Parliament, the opposition attacks with all the guns. I think this case is incorrect. My dear opposition, if you are convinced that the law is as bad as you say it is, then I expect you to vote against it today, but not that without a vote against it on the Committee on Finance then this law is passed. I am convinced that this law was passed on the Committee on Finance without a vote against it because the opposition would be friendly to the coalition, but mainly because the opposition is aware that this law is appropriate, that the measures listed in the law are appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since I can see there's still interest, I'm going to set up an application procedure. Two of them have been reported. First of all, Member Jani Ivanuša has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u96	I'll be very short, because time is gold. I'm calling from this town again. We may have heard everything today, but we only have two marriages today. He's one who's fixing the first mega coronation bill, and the other he's talking about the liquidity of the economy and the easing of that. We have also proposed three amendments to the Committee on Finance, and no one has gone through. However, we will support the law, as we have announced. My predecessors from the opposition parties said that no amendment had gone through what they suggested. I'm not surprised. And the previous government, if you remember, five months ago, the amendments were falling, so there's nothing new. When someone comes to power, just forget what it was like in the past when they were in another position. I would point out once again that we will support the laws, one and the other, which we also announce in our positions, so this is nothing new. However, as regards the Committee on Finance, we also asked some additional questions on Saturday, but we did not get any answers. That way, we will use the weapons of the question of dispatch. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The last one is Ambassador Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u98	Thank you very much, and good day to all. This debate takes place as it has been debated for the past month. On the one hand, we listen to praises, and on the other, we call for a reasonable or at least a more reasonable approach. I wouldn't call that throwing pollen under wheels. The virus suddenly became an excuse for everyone. There is a need to separate, some measures to curb the spread of the virus, which are mainly of a health nature, and today we are discussing financial measures to start the economy when the virus is no longer. If we could discuss whether any measures were effective, then we should actually freeze everything now and not be able to come forward until six months later. Why? The leading economists have been speaking for some time, and we can monitor the need for a different approach to dealing with the consequences of coronaryism. It'll never be the way it was before. Here we are monitoring the measures that we have been trained to address the previous 2008 crisis, namely the resolution of some financial segment, although we know that the crisis that will arise after only a month of non-business days will be much more difficult and far worse than the one in 2008. The whole economy is before it collapses, not just in Slovenia, globally. Now I'm wondering where all those profits are, all the capital that's accumulated in an excellent conjuncture when the financial crisis is over. Without ideology, we can all figure out where that profit went. In those 5% of the people who manage the global economy. Well, that's not ideologically meant. So those who control our lives. Who's losing? Those who don't have enough. Therefore, it is essential to look beyond the balance sheet statements of the company’s retained capital gains. All of this exists only on paper. Liquidity is either accumulated in the largest banks or exists only on some electronic level. The only currency we have now is the potential for change, but we don't do it in homogeneous normal times, let alone in crisis. So, with the utmost respect for both the coalition and the government, I cannot be optimistic when I read these things and these proposals. It is obvious that they will no longer be important or oil, not industry, will remain important what we actually have at home, that is labour potential, water and maybe gold. But you can't even eat gold. You can only give it away. And today we are talking about putting out a large number of mini fires that speak with so much intensity that they light up or try to light up the whole world. But we are still closing our eyes before we need changes mainly in mentality and the rescue approach. Apparently now we're putting these little fires out by opening the scrotum, and everyone gets too little. Are we going to do something about it? I don't know. I sincerely hope so, but I don't believe so. What do I see? An increase in expenditure, an increase in debt, a part of Parliament, but not in the majority, is wondered whether this will actually have any effect or not. Again, it's not throwing pollen under your feet, but it's calling for a little bit more rational. We're facing enormous unemployment. Some also predict 250,000 unemployed in Slovenia. This is going to be a collapse not only of state systems, but of the whole economy. And the concentration of power remains, and that's the one that's the only one that's important, that's power. And once again, I'm asking you, like I did on the boards, like I did in the previous law review: do you have any idea what tomorrow would be? That's what people want to hear. What's tomorrow? To calm them down, to see that they have at least one year of future, not to seal our eyes. Then I hear it even: marriage is good. No, the law, at least the ones we're going to deal with at the next point, is bad. If you were good, you wouldn't have fixed it for the third time. And we're fixing it for the third time today. And why are we fixing it? Because for the first time, we had to go with our eyes closed over everything we proposed. We've proposed constructively. All one hundred of our proposals were not so bad that they should be abolished, and this is completely without arguments. Only with the push of a button did it all fly away. We were at least that honest in the coalition, and we said why not. But this from you, besides not hearing what will happen tomorrow, that we may be calm, I have not experienced this from you. As far as committee voting is concerned, I am also a member in finance, not against just one reason: because it seems to me that something is better than nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Is there anyone else besides the Commissioner of Corazia? Yeah. Then we'll start the application. Only Bosniak Koražija has been reported. Hey, buddy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u100	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your word. In fact, when we're talking here today, it's basically the problem that this government and coalition parties have us in fact. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u101	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u102	For hostages and idiots here in this House. [[…]] He thinks of us as idiots because when we propose something, we are critical of that proposal or their proposals, then they return immediately if we know nothing that we do not know anything, that we do not know things. Most of all, I keep remembering that I've been listening on this side for the last two years, one and the same. Even if we suggest something good is wrong, it sucks, you don't know anything, all the time. And that, apparently, also entrenched the government to the point. And I also don't understand clearly, like the SMC Party, they obviously have some serious problem because each one of you is saying some things in your own way, I don't know, one against the government, one for the government. Are you in government or are you not in government? Make up your mind once. As we are essentially the hostages of all these proposals you have proposed today, and unfortunately, the whole of Slovenia. Mr Šircelj, I don't blame him unwittingly, explained earlier that public transport had been abolished because the other countries also had this. That's not true. Austria and Germany have public transport at the time of the coronation throughout the country's borders open or ongoing. But I don't blame him. But the other thing is that we are hostages, too. Look, every day we listen to TV experts, even heads of certain professional groups, and they don't even know about basic data, about some 50 numbers. And this is basically also the basic problem that I see in you as a government or also in coalition parties to support essentially a non-professional decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Besides my colleague Sonibo Knezak, anyone else? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u104	Thank you, Chairman. At first, I did not intend to discuss it, but my colleague Pogačnik gave me a little encouragement mainly with this second part when he claims that in the SD we were opposed to raising the averages for the municipalities. The difference between what you are doing in the last month and a half is that the previous government has acted economically despite good financial revenues and favourable economic conditions. Economically and responsibly to this country. I myself have been a great opponent, and I have also written to the Minister of Finance that instead of reducing the public debt that we have really reduced and we have treated it responsibly to the next generation, we would spend more money on investment. Unfortunately, my voice has not been heard and we have just continued this policy, which is, in the long run, good for the country. That comparison between the previous government, I myself was extremely angry with Prime Minister Sarca, because he thus gave up without consulting the coalition partners, but it must be acknowledged that the difference between what you are doing today, that part of the packages that are necessary, which are nothing special, is not a specific premise of this government, but a copy-paste measure with a 14-day delay that they are working in neighbouring Austria and Germany, except for some of our assumptions that I do not know, are crazy if I only mention the discrimination of pensioners and all that you are doing with them now, from trade to all of this, but that this government will entrust generations to young people not only for the next term, but for several generations, with the measures that are necessary or not necessary. If I already understand the package of measures for the economy, however, you have involved in this package of measures, which are necessary, one set of some sweets with some money for groups that don't even know why they're going to get the money now. And you are doing this irresponsibly to the government, which will be next and perhaps even more so, because everything you are doing today will have to be part of the unnecessary measures that this country will also have to pay back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If he doesn't want to, then I'm closing the debate. We turn to the amendments to Article 9, and to Articles 9, 15 and 17. Since the amendments to Article 9 and Articles 9, 15 and 17 are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. I therefore give the title of Articles 9, 9, 15 and 17 and the four amendments of the LMŠ Group of Ambassadors to the debate and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? He does. Then I'll open the application procedure. The text is by Ambassador Andre Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. By Article 9, the LMŠ had already put this amendment on the Finance Committee and had already been rejected. We're reinvesting it today. In the first paragraph of Article 9, the words ‘the creditor must accept the offer to buy his claim’ shall be added at the end of the first paragraph. This means that the amendment provides that where the borrower regularly repays its obligations and the bank and the SID of the Bank agree to purchase the claim to the borrower, the consent of the borrower is also required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u107	Thank you very much. He's also a magician. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, Vice-President of the National Assembly. As for the amendment tabled by the Marjan Sarca Group, I must admit that I do not understand the meaning of this amendment, the return of money – whether you return the money to the lender or the marriage. Either way, you have to come back. I guess they didn't expect debt write-offs here. As far as the left-wing group is concerned. In Article 9, they propose a supplement and my fundamental question is whether we would like to re-establish a bank owned by the State, that we have not learned five billion recapitalisations in the Republic of Slovenia. And as far as the business banks are concerned, this is a simple political deceiving, because the fact is that the borrower is justified [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Time's up. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since there is no further interest in the debate, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the Law on Intervention Measures for the Control of the Epidemic of the Commodity-19 and the Militation of Their Consequences for the State and the Economy within the framework of the current procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Andrea Shirtzle, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! The bill that we are discussing today primarily includes an additional group of vulnerable persons who were found to have fallen out or not to have been included in the law in the preparation of the basic law. Certain solutions relate to the uncertainties identified in the preparation for the implementation of the basic law. Certain solutions relate to comments from the professional and other public, or comments from the professional and other public are taken into account. The main objectives of the proposed measures remain the same, namely the preservation of jobs and the functioning of businesses, the improvement of the social situation of people, and especially those most at risk due to the covid-19 epidemic. The bill thus provides a new single solidarity allowance of 150 euros for additional vulnerable groups, such as parents of children with special needs, parents entitled to a child or parental allowance, family assistants, disabled persons, war veterans, disabled persons, farm members, foster parents and others. I don't want to list everyone here. A temporary exemption from value added tax from supplies of protective and medical equipment, temporary release of surplus waste packaging and construction procedures with a view to speeding up this construction and actually getting out of the crisis and to act as soon as possible in areas where this is possible today or in the near future. The amendments or additions to the basic law also relate to the simplification or more favourable setting of conditions for checking the eligibility of employers to pay salaries to workers on hold or leave work due to higher force and conditions for verifying the eligibility of self-employed and others to monthly basic income or exemption from contributions. The latter shall also extend the range of persons eligible for basic monthly income or exemption from payments of contributions. Above all, we stress here the parents who benefit from certain parental protection rights. In doing so, I would like to point out that these rights will be recognised back, i.e. from 13 March onward. I also stress that we have adapted those provisions of the law which lay down the requirements for reimbursement of the funds received by certain beneficiaries. This is where I think about employers. In this case or with this solution, employers will not pay the contributions for which they have been forgiven for pension and disability insurance if they pay the salaries, the rewards to the workers. This is said to be a return in case they pay the profits or pay the awards to the management. In this case, all these unpaid contributions will have to be repaid. If they're gonna reward the workers, they won't have to. The amendments also concern the scope of deferred payments of credit and other liabilities, workers' rights, public sector operations during the epidemic. The provisions also relate to the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorism, the provision of public services, and the introduction of values in the field of tourism. We have also foreseen certain solutions that are needed because of other problems in certain areas of the economy. Your Honor! The government considers the proposal to be an urgent further step towards dealing with the covid-19 epidemic, so the government proposes to support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Finance. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. There is no fellow Member. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Italian and Hungarian national groups and Ferenc Horváth. He's not here either. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Mag. Marco Pogačnik. He's not here either. The position of the member of the Marjan Sarca Group will be presented by Andre Zabret, who is not. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u112	Thank you very much, once again, Madam Vice President. The Honourable Minister. A sudden halt to public life and a global economic deadlock due to a new viral epidemic, of course, requires a swift, coordinated and sufficient response from the country. Restrictive measures meant a complete cessation of activities for some sectors, but at least with the promise that in a few months' time life and business will return to some normal routes. In other activities, they are also faced with complete uncertainty, as they know that even after the end of the epidemic, the return to the old reality will not be. Third, however, is faced with much more work, less money, or higher costs. Few have higher incomes than usual at this time, many of them regret that market conditions are being abused for their own profit. The government has decided to resolve the situation through a package approach. First, in March, it adopted a set of laws that allowed it to wait for work and postpone credit obligations, and it also took on exceptional public financial powers that virtually annulled the budget adopted and completely cut off the budget planning from the National Assembly. Only then did the so-called first antikron package, which we are considering today. The adopted law has introduced a new partially uniform scheme of subsidised waiting for work, introduced a basic income for certain categories of self-employed persons and a solidarity allowance for vulnerable groups. In addition to these economic and social measures, the law has also intervened in a number of other laws and has enacted other solutions, many of which, in our opinion, do not have a real connection with eliminating the consequences of the epidemic, particularly articles that allow additional repression on the part of the people who are conscientiously following the prescribed measures, and have also, of course, been criticized by our side and the opposition. In dealing with the original bill, the government coalition voted all amendments, voted in some way or heard all the concerns and suggestions for improving the opposition parties, however, to include all of them in the next package, which is before us today. Nor does this package, which is before us today, receive support in such a way that any amendment or our view, the Social Democrats, will somehow be taken into account. But we will not be sad about it, but we will point to those who did not want to listen. We're wondering what happened to the rent. Rents that our tenants can't pay due to the collapse of traffic. These rents aren't in this marriage either. We also need to point out some positive things – that we have included public institutions, that we have reimbursed the municipalities so that they can pay the costs for kindergartens and so on, we have also helped the disabled. And I could count a few more things, but in general I think we can see if these measures will work, only a few months from now when we come out of this health crisis. As far as this law is concerned, we will give a few more of our amendments in the process of adopting the law, and we will draw attention to the problems that we see, which also make them turn to us. If none of our amendments and any of our thoughts are adopted and incorporated into this legislation, we cannot support such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Ms Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members of the Government! Perhaps today is the question of why we are considering the amendment to the law that we have recently adopted. And it's true, we took him in haste, but with the aim of helping everyone affected by the epidemic as soon as possible. At the same time, however, we were aware that whoever was working unintentionally also made a mistake, and at the same time a promise was made that we would examine, evaluate, and take all meaningful solutions into account in the form of corrections and introduce them into the new law that is before us today. With the first so-called anti-korona law, there have been so-called aid kits for citizens and the economy, and today we are introducing urgent corrections to this law to provide solutions and assistance for all those who have fallen off unexpectedly in the first version. We have actively participated in the SMC in the preparation of this novel, and we are pleased that some of our key proposals have also been taken into account. Let me put it down. This will also be the case for smaller employers carrying out insurance activities and for all partially self-employed, which is particularly important for young parents who, due to parental protection, carried out their activities only for a short period of time. In addition to the solidarity allowance of 150 euros, all exceptional students who are not in a regular working relationship and partially disabled persons will be eligible. In view of the more favourable criteria and a more transparent way of identifying revenue reductions for businesses and self-employed people, we are also expanding the range of beneficiaries of measures and financial assistance. Finally, due to the cancellation of travel, adequate consumer protection for already paid tourist arrangements has also been regulated. Still, according to our assessment, some problems remain unaddressed. In doing so, we have in mind, in particular, the commercial rentals and leasings. We will endeavour to set up similar mechanisms for leasings and business rentals, following the model of the Moratorium for the repayment of credits, as this would limit the negative consequences, especially for those activities which may not operate during the epidemic or are extremely limited in their operations. Here we have in mind transport and trade in particular. We estimate that these solutions should be found in the so-called third set of anti-koron law, the main focus of which should also be the assistance of tourism activities and further measures to revive economic activities. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we welcome all the measures that are already being and will be and will be needed to respond to the shock that the epidemic poses for the economy and for wider social life. The epidemic and consequently the economic recession are facts, and all the negative consequences can be overcome sooner if we accept them as a challenge and an opportunity for unity and positive change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u116	Thank you very much. We have tried since the beginning of the adoption of the first corona package to approach the karsed constructively and with the proposals of the amendments, then we have prepared them over 30 pages, to correct the law as far as we can, to remove the holes. At that time, the government did not respect any of our amendments. She asked us for repairs, we rewritten them, over 30 pages of repairs, but only a handful of them were taken into account. Some have been given to foster parents, some will be given to self-employed parents, some will be given to disabled people who work in disabled companies, and some of these very lottery criteria have been eliminated for self-employed people who have asked for help. And that's about it. In fact, I find it difficult to understand this government because it has been led by parties who have been persistently opposed to bureaucratism for years to talk about administrative burdens, but now they have drawn up an extremely bureaucratic law that makes it difficult for many people to access assistance, and from this bureaucratic network it leaves out even a number of people, groups that might come or might need it, but they will not be able to. There are also some disproportionates that we mentioned in the previous position. So, first of all, the government has banks and businesses. For example, banks will freeze loans, but interest runs, which means they will raise more interest on individual loans in the long run. Companies can receive subsidies and workers can be fired when we reach the residents and residents, and we can see that, say, people can get unemployment compensation, but the institution can send them, against their will, to work on the farm. But if I go to the main problem now, that's how many groups are still abandoned and the government doesn't want to eliminate it, and I'd like to take a quick walk through our main comments. First, they're self-employed here. The aid will still have to be recovered and the conditions are quite restrictive. At the same time, the issue is partly self-employed. It is said that those who are not fully self-employed but, in part, are not entitled to the aid. Then there are students who have two problems. The first is rent. There is no aid for private tenants. The other is the supplement they get. They will receive 150 euros, and those who live in Slovenia will not be able to make any special compensation for students who have taken up their jobs and who cannot do this work, as will not be the case for students who do not currently reside in Slovenia, either foreign students with us or Slovenian students abroad. If I give you one case here. I know some people who, like, work in Berlin as freelancers. They received state aid there, whether they are not German citizens or they do not have a permanent residence there. Then we have students, mostly from poor families. Then we have older ones in homes whose country does not provide hospital treatment, but they are still mostly in nursing homes. Then we have private sector workers who, contrary to those in the public sector, will receive a flat-rate amount of 200 euro in addition, irrespective of the exposure to the virus in their work. If I caricose, someone in a private home for older citizens will get only 200 euros, even if there is an epidemic. Then we've got holiday workers who've been released from aid. Public sector workers will be able to perform 80 overtime per month at the request of the chairman, which is 100 % more than the ceiling. Then we have beneficiaries of all kinds of aid from public funds here. In fact, the compensation provided for in this law will be deemed to be censored. Then we have unemployed people who, if they lost their right to unemployment benefits, are in trouble because this law does not prolong them, but jobs will be difficult to obtain in these times. In short, we still have a whole bunch of holes we've been trying to fix on the board, and as long as the law remains open, we're re-investing the amendments this time. But under the line, I have to say that the second is a disappointment. Last but not least, the government has promised to fix all the things we've warned about this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Ambassador Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Let me reiterate that the Government has been very careful in the preparation of legislation, assistance packages for citizens and the economy. And what is particularly commendable is that she has included practically all possible stakeholders, both employers’ organisations, chambers and trade unions, and has appointed, for help, a consultative group led and led by Dr. Matej Lahovnik. Also included or invited was the entire opposition, which strongly engaged, which is highly commendable, with amendments. What is not commendable is that the opposition had until Monday until 3 p.m. to prepare its proposals, i.e. before accepting these packages, the new PKP1 and PKP2 which talk about liquidity, and practically, according to me, there were no answers from the opposition. But anyway. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – has also become strongly involved in the amendment of the CAP1, i.e. the Law on Intervention Measures for the Control of the COVID-19 Epidemic and the Mitigation of its Consequences for Citizens and the Economy. We've listened to many of the individuals, the organizations that wrote us. Some asked us why you're so engaged because you're a government party. Well, that's the wrong understanding. A proper understanding is that we must engage all, and decision-makers in general, and thus with joint proposals, with common ideas, to come up with the best solutions. Since the adoption of the first package of PKP1 assistance, represented by the extensive Law on Intervention Measures to combat the COVID-19 epidemic and to mitigate its consequences for citizens and the economy, as we have said, many citizens have been addressing us with their proposals, good suggestions for how to improve the package further. Since we are a party close to people, we have taken them into account as much as possible in the preparation of the amendments to the CAP1 – which we are currently considering. We have achieved that a number of our proposals are included in the proposed amended law, which I thank first the coalition partners and, of course, the government that has listened to us. One such measure is a change in the employee's duty during the period of temporary waiting for work. At the employer's request, he returns to work up to seven days in the current month. It is a more life-sustaining measure or a more life-sustaining arrangement. The following is a reduction in the terms of the fall in revenue for the benefit of the aid from 20 % to 10 %. The measure is therefore justified by those employers and self-employed who, according to their estimates of income in 2020, will fall by more than 10% as a result of the epidemic. The comparison between February and March 2020 is no longer taken into account as a reference period for determining the reduction of the income of self-employed persons. If the self-employed person has not operated throughout the year, the average shall be used. So it's a broader period of observation, which we think is more objective and fair. Employees with disabilities also receive a monthly crisis allowance of 200 euros. All partially self-employed persons shall be added to the beneficiaries of the monthly basic income and the exemption of contributions. A single solidarity allowance of 150 euros is also paid to exceptional students. A single solidarity allowance of 150 euros is also granted to disabled persons, family assistants, foster parents, parental beneficiaries of parental allowance, child care allowance, material or parental compensation, beneficiaries of partial payment for lost income due to the care and protection of the child and war veterans and disabled persons and so on and so on. Of course, we will support this amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Gradually, Luca Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u120	Thank you. It is not customary to make procedural proposals between the views of the members of the groups, but please, the President, to warn Mr Horvath that it is not Christian to lie, even if it is the position of the Group of Members. You say the opposition did not send proposals before the hearing. We have, despite the fact that the marriage, despite a different arrangement, received again at the weekend, that the Minister did not come to present the law and that on Saturday day the deadline was on Monday at three, we had an expert team at work all weekend, so that we proposed these proposals, as I said before, more than 30 pages. It is simply not right, it is not fair, but it is not Christian for you to speak now about how the opposition did not send proposals. We did, and I beg you, Vice President, to warn him.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group are those of the Group of Members. I hope that in a discussion that will follow up on this in a few minutes, you will also clear these things up. I suggest we move on. Ambassador Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u122	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal of the novel eliminates the errors that we have been alerting both in the SAB and in the entire opposition. On behalf of the population and the economy, we regret that no representative of the ruling coalition has responded to our warnings. Not all errors have been remedied, in particular the intervention in the Law on Infectious Diseases and the granting of specific powers to the police. Instead of deleting the constitutionally contested provisions in the amendment, the decision was left to the Constitutional Court. The whole law is subject to the European Commission rules on granting State aid to economic operators and therefore additional stricter conditions are imposed on recipients. The government has changed conditions for the third time. In the SAB, we stand for a social state. In the first anti-korona package, quite a few groups were released who needed help due to the consequences of the epidemic. The SAB group has given special attention to self-employed persons who are insured on two different bases. These were initially not entitled to exemption from contributions and not to monthly basic income. And who specifically represents this category of employees? Self - employed parents who work part - time, parents who benefit from maternity leave, family helpers, and many others who have unjustifiably refused to help them. Let us recall that the privileged representatives of the Government increased their salaries by 8% immediately after the crisis was announced. Under the plaza of criticism, they are then reduced by 30% by the first antikron law, but the law allows them to pay a crisis allowance of 100%. At the time of the adoption of the first anti-Korron Act, the SAB Group has tabled an amendment preventing officials, top representatives of the Government and the Ministry from raising salaries under the pretext of paying the crisis allowance. And we had some good instincts, given that the government had raised its wages by 35% before the second anti-korona law was discussed as a crisis supplement. We have tried to prevent this completely insolvent work for the second time. But neither the government nor any coalition representative listened. In the SAB, we have proposed a reduction in salaries for leaders in state-owned companies. We firmly believe that they must also be an example to the population in respect of measures to mitigate the negative consequences and solidarity. In the SAB, we know that any major financial transaction raises doubts about fair sharing and, above all, the use of funds. The events related to the security equipment affair still confirm these doubts. That is why we have again proposed special parliamentary supervision over the allocation and use of crisis funds. This is a large sum of money, so we want to know clearly where the funds will go, and that the assessment of eligibility to spend a large public financial package will be very clearly monitored to help liquidate our economy. In any event, the covida-19 epidemic will have serious consequences for the economy in the long term if we do not take action now and immediately monitor the allocation, eligibility and consumption of the Republic of Slovenia. After the outbreak of the new Coronavirus, there is also a deep economic crisis, and we are more concerned than rightly in the SAB that the situation in 2012 will happen again when the crisis was the reason for the attempt to dismantle the social state. In the SAB Group, we believe that it is right that the State is helping the population and the economy in the spirit of solidarity and the social state, which is why we will not oppose the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Ambassador Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! What to do is the biggest challenge currently faced by political decision makers. There will be an increasing number of proposals, in line with the deepening and spreading of the dimensions of the crisis. However, the solution is becoming clearer not only with us, but also with other countries. And to make it sound so incredible, this is a return to a state of prosperity that will provide basic life services to citizens, limit the spread of public money, organise rational public administration and introduce progressive taxes on income and property, to a country that will be able to reduce the destructive flow of the free market without any restrictions. With a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on intervention measures to combat the epidemic, the National Assembly will upgrade the more than 3 billion marriage packages it has already adopted. Corrections to the law will increase budget expenditure by just under €37 million, the value of all measures will be 3 billion and 128 million. By means of a legal novelty, we are extending state aid measures to around 190,000 people, and the entire anti-Korona law will provide assistance due to the consequences of the epidemic crisis for a little less than a million and 200 thousand people. The value of all budgetary measures - and in the Desus Group we are convinced that this is precisely what this is about - is comparatively one of the major countries of the European Union. Comparisons with the share of gross domestic product are only in the domain of statistical curiosity and are also useless because debts will have to be repaid in money rather than in the proportion of GDP. It should be emphasized that this is our reality. In a fiscal sense, we do what is possible, not what is produced daily in overheated heads of tailors. The provisions relate to the equalization of the status of all different forms of employees, the entitlement to a single solidarity allowance extends to users of occupational pensions, exceptional students and other vulnerable groups. The law has been modified in such a way that the entitlement of employers and independent entrepreneurs to legal aid measures is linked to an annual decline and no longer to a semi-annual decline in income. These measures are thus justified by those employers and independent entrepreneurs who, according to their estimates of income in 2020, will fall by more than 10% in relation to the previous year. If their income does not fall to such an extent, they will have to repay the aid. Some new tax solutions are foreseen, a new additional relief is being introduced to encourage donations to the Republic of Slovenia for the purpose of remedying the consequences of the epidemic. The mitigation of the impact of the tourism epidemic is foreseen by the introduction of valuations. In this way, travel organisers will issue to the consumer a value of the amount paid which they may pay within 24 months of its issuance and pay the same or different tourist package. Or perhaps it is to pass it on to another consumer. One of the key measures in this law is to speed up and remove bureaucratic barriers to building permits. This will encourage investment by the state, municipalities and private companies. The situation we are in will not be overcome by a miracle, but by the best possible engagement of the productive capacities of the entire economy. The effects on the employment rate, the standard of living of the population, the fiscal state of the country and the whole macroeconomic environment are multiplied in such cases. The aim is to direct measures financed from the State budget, with the State budget being a fiscal organisational entity which, like any other entity, is similar to its legality and its limitations. In particular, restrictions should be taken into account if our objective is to be the functionality of the budget in the coming years. We hope that, at least with regard to achieving this objective, it is possible to unify views. The Desus Group will support the amendment of the law, because this allows the country's greatest intervention in its history to help the economic sector and individual citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Ambassador Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Have a nice hello to you all again! The name of the law consists of two parts, the first part refers to measures to contain the epidemic. Our general assessment is that the Government has taken relatively effective measures to combat the epidemic, but these measures cannot be long-term, as they are financially unsustainable. These measures cost us too much. When we talk about measures to contain the epidemic, we would like to see in the Slovenian National Party the budget earmarked primarily for the development of the vaccine. Slovenia should develop the vaccine itself, not wait for the Chinese and others to sell us the vaccine at chopping prices and through a number of intermediaries. This is how we like to talk about investing in research and development – now we have the opportunity to invest in our pharmaceuticals. We have excellent researchers both at the university, at the Faculty of Pharmacy and at the economy, not to mention all pharmaceutical companies. If we develop the vaccine ourselves, we can sell it to others and not vice versa. At least what we can do is that the state provides the means and pharmacists can at least try to develop the vaccine. In order to do much, representatives of the Slovenian Respirator initiative have proven themselves to be doing four prototypes of respirators. Slovenia could develop all the necessary medical equipment on its own, not to mention masks. We could do anything on our own. The government should allocate funds to the economy to buy protective equipment and to adapt jobs so that workers can work as safely as possible. We will not solve the epidemic with billions of euros. With quarantine that causes extreme economic damage, we have been able to save some lives, and this is certainly not a long-term solution. I don't understand why no one thinks any further. If we provided safe jobs with budgetary resources today, we would be much easier and much cheaper in a possible second wave of epidemics. The country should also build new accommodation facilities today. We're not Chinese to be able to build a hospital in 14 days, but by autumn, when the second wave of the epidemic is expected, we could be ready by now. As more and more inequitable protective masks are emerging on the market and disinfected, I call on the Market Inspectorate to increase control in this area. We need to protect the health of our people. The second part of the law refers to the mitigation of its consequences for citizens and the economy. After a good month of declaring the epidemic, the first catastrophic consequences for the economy and the population are already showing. Companies shut down and forgive workers, those who still operate and do not forgive, lower wages. We've got some tough times ahead of us. In the Slovenian National Party, we are skeptical of government measures in the field of economy. People expected more. When the government mentioned €3 billion, people made calculations. If we divided them into 2 million citizens, everyone would get a thousand 500 euros. This would be a simple and transparent measure — anyone would get something. This makes it difficult for the government to make difficult laws that do not even cover all groups of the population. Unfortunately, companies are closing down and workers are forgiving themselves despite the country's billions of aid. So obviously the measures are not enough, they don't work enough. It is entirely legitimate to ask whether the budget billions are, therefore, economically spent. It does not seem reasonable to us that budgetary resources are being made available to people and the economy. Budget resources will be run out once. We need to teach our people and the economy how to adapt at the time of the epidemic to keep the work going. People have credits, people have to pay bills, people have to work. The government has banned people from their jobs. We're losing jobs because of the government's actions, not because of the epidemic. We gave people the wrong message. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. Before opening the application for discussion to Article 3, the representative of the Government, Mr Vinko Gorenak, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u128	Thank you very much. To clarify how the coordination took place, because some of you have really produced data that are not accurate. 13. 4. 2020 and 14. 4. 2020, this is Monday and Tuesday, I have visited all the parliamentary groups and asked you for comments or suggestions on what the law should contain. I told you that the law would be adopted in the form of a draft in the Government 17. 4. 2020, this is Friday. 17. 4. That's when you sent some, some you didn't. Then the situation went this way that we were 17. The 4th draft law was adopted by the Government and sent to all opposition parties on Friday at 22.09 asking for an answer by Monday by 3 p.m. The answers were as follows. SAB: we will not send amendments, but we will submit them to a plenary session or to a committee. Correct. The SNS has sent something, and it has achieved a great deal. I haven't seen anything since LMŠ, nothing SD and nothing left. By the time I'm 15 hours, nothing. During the meeting of the Government, which lasted from 5 p.m. to 5 p.m., you sent from Left, LMŠ and SD nothing. But the Left essentially sent a text with those general comments: we want you to cover all the groups, and so on and so forth. I was surprised by the position of Left and SD, where you failed to send anything by Monday, but you were able to tell on POP TV on Sunday what was wrong with the marriage. So much for the correctness of this cooperation. Although the LMSH did not emphasize something in particular, it was disturbed by tourist agencies that were really not there on Friday, but on Monday they were. Representative SD – I heard you, I think, on the board when you waved some paper you sent. You couldn't comment on something that didn't exist. You're the one who got mixed up, but you sent out those comments that we took into account. So that's not a problem story. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Let's go to the debate on Article 3. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the two amendments of the LMŠ Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Ambassadors. I'm opening the application procedure. The first one gets the word of Mr Luka Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u130	Thank you. I think this is a good illustration of how the discussions with the government are going. Vinko Gorenak came to tell his story, but in the moment that I signed up for the word to answer him, he leaves the hall. So dialogue with the government is in short a government monologue, which is a key problem. As for our cooperation or our response that weekend. True, Vinko Gorenak sent an official e-mail on Friday at 22.09. I noticed it, I think that at 1:00 a.m. on Friday, and I immediately forwarded it to our professional colleagues, who examined it thoroughly on Saturday and Sunday, we also participated in this and made proposals. These were sent to the coalition on Monday, and at the same time the coalition had 30 pages of our amendments on hand for a month, as these were tabled in the National Assembly and it knew exactly what articles our comments were on and what our alternative proposals were. So it's really hard to say that we were too general. For each article that we have criticised, we have submitted everything in the form of an amendment, i.e. a new text of that article, by explanation. And that's what the government had all month. So much for that story. Now if I go back to my marriage. As I said before, marriage still causes injustice to many groups of people. On Friday, when he was on board, we tried to largely amend him, unfortunately again failing because the Government rejected all our proposals. Today, however, we will try again with those articles that are still open. And if I could just briefly present our key issues. The first is that we will try to bind aid to ensure that workers in companies benefiting from subsidies cannot be forgiven. We have a nice example of Gorenje. He can benefit from the subsidy, but he has already announced that he will forgive as many as a thousand employees. As it is said, these subsidies should not be intended to subsidise profits or should not be intended for the huge conservation of ownership, but should be intended to preserve jobs. And the Government should, if companies are in breach of such contracts, distribute the aid in a retroactive way or by obtaining equity in companies that are in breach of the contract. Finally, in a year or two, as the current situation in Europe shows, we will have to put the aid we are now distributing into our sovereign debt and pay it back. Second. We propose that the aid can also be obtained by institutions and other legal persons who receive more than 70% of their finances from public funds. The state has restricted or the government is restricting this, thus causing the following. One institution, which is, say, 70% funded from public funds and 30% from marketable resources, may be at risk of being quarantined by this market share and jobs in the market. So the government, with this protector put in the budget, is in fact the biggest threat to the market parts of these institutions, businesses, other legal persons. We see no point in this, although we agree with the principle of the Minister, that he who receives public funds should not receive them again in order to pay these same wages. But we should make it possible for those who have to close their jobs because they are financed exclusively by private funds or by market funds to maintain these jobs even through the crisis. The third amendment we are going to make is about the remuneration of employees in the private sector. In the public sector, employees can be rewarded until the basic salary is doubled, so they can get a 100 % raise to the basic salary, while in the private sector they will all receive only 200 euros, no matter how risky the job they work on. At the very least, this means that employees will also be employed in public DSOs, where epidemics, where the situation is critical, can receive only 200 euro in additions. We propose to introduce the same regulation for the private sector as for the public, so that the wages can be doubled for the most risky groups. And there's not a lot of them, we have a bunch of people who are constantly in contact, from suppliers, dealers, security guards to employees in custody, and so on. Other colleagues will present other amendments, but we will try to achieve that the government will extend this internship to the unemployed who are under quarantine. You know that we are currently in crisis and that this crisis will take some time, so that the unemployed will find it difficult to obtain jobs, but today we can decide to extend their possibility of obtaining unemployment compensation and thus save their existence. Many of them are also those who do not meet the criteria for obtaining monetary social assistance because they have any assets, and these people can remain in this intermediation completely without income. Last but not least, there are vulnerable groups that I mentioned earlier, from disabled people, foreign workers, poor, poor families with less than three children, students who have lost their jobs, to students and students who come from poor families and even to them in the current marriage. That is why, as previously said, we have proposed amendments that have now been tabled in relation to the articles that are still open, and we will try to convince the Government, for the last time, to help these people. Before I conclude, I would also like to say that this package adoption of these omnibus laws is problematic, as they are called, which interfere with many other laws, because they are substantively very diverse. In this coronapacket we have from helping citizens to helping businesses, to helping banks, to things that practically have no connection to coronaryism. In this second round, the government finally added a clause that practically suspends environmental standards not for the next month, obviously, but could even for the next two years, and excluded NGOs from participating in construction procedures. This has nothing to do with coronaryism, but it shows what can be found in these packages or what the Government is pushing into these packages. We are no longer able to amend this, we have tried to achieve this on Friday, but we are currently in a situation where this law, even if these amendments that we are now adopting, were adopted and the threatened social groups were taken care of, were so indisputable that we could not support it already. Which is a shame, of course, because it is in everyone's interest to try to bring these times of crisis together as calmly as possible, to provide people with as comprehensive assistance as possible and, of course, to lose as few people as possible their jobs, their jobs and that they will be able to live as normal as possible. But the government obviously has a much broader purpose than this, which is clearly illustrated by this other coronapack. I'll stop here and my colleagues will continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish has the next word, Mr Primož Siter is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The government has set the framework for current measures at around €6 billion. To this end, she has done a great deal of work. That wouldn't be wrong. It would be smart not to follow a questionable list of priorities. This €6 billion is preferred by the Government: the highest level of protection and assistance is enjoyed by financial capital, the banks, then the big business, and also the bulk of the cake, and then, of course, the friendly supplier companies, who are peeling commissions at the Department of Commerce Reserves, are somewhere else, but only then, if there is anything left, can people count on help and support. You can imagine that this aid and support is after the banks take theirs, when they take theirs away big business, and when they take theirs away, a small fraction. For example, such double standards favouring business to the detriment of people are that solidarity allowance for people in distress is paid on a one-off basis, not monthly for the duration of the epidemic, but that measures intended for business, such as exemptions for companies, compensation for workers on hold and so on, are paid monthly. Where's the logic, and where's the justice? One of the amendments that we have tabled to this law in Levica is regulated. All solidarity allowances must be paid monthly for the duration of the epidemic, for all those eligible for these allowances. Because the epidemic did not create an extra cost for people, and they did not get into trouble in just one month, and the whole situation for them is one great tribulation, and throughout the epidemic they need to be helped. Among the recipients of the solidarity allowance, several recipients of financial social assistance and beneficiaries of the protection allowance were found to be in government frameworks, and the unemployed were forgotten, and students studying abroad were forgotten, students were forgotten and so on. When I forget, I'm actually saying too little, because after all the warnings we've given in the last month in Levica to various vulnerable groups, it doesn't mean that the government has deliberately left them behind for the second time. We're also doing this in Levica with our amendments. The solidarity allowance should also be given to the unemployed and also to students abroad, including students. And the Black Government, in addition to these solidarity supplements, allows the use of other social transfers under the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, has cut vulnerable groups off from exceptional financial social assistance. So, if you ask for an extraordinary amount of cash social assistance and at the same time receive some solidarity allowance, this solidarity allowance will be paid to you in the amount of exceptional cash social assistance or even the possibility that your application for exceptional financial social assistance will be treated positively. And this is at the very point of those who are in the worst of situations, because only those who are going to ask for extraordinary financial social assistance. Here the government pretends to help people — as little as they can — because it gives them with one hand and takes them with the other hand or, more precisely, slaps them. We say in Levica that this is wrong. This also saves our amendment to Article 15. Thus, exceptional financial social assistance is paid without taking the solidarity allowances into account in the prices and all these calculations. Another antisocial move that I really cannot rationally explain to myself is that someone who receives social transfers, who is poor and lives in the same household as a poor pensioner who will be entitled to a solidarity allowance, such a person will receive his financial social assistance, even though there cares for his elderly, for his parents, will not receive a solidarity allowance. And then let's do what? Practically, this entire household, which is already poor not only after one member, but after two, perhaps after three members, survives with the addition of the thief. With an attic supplement, which will be paid once, let them come through the entire epidemic. Student workers – a category of workers who have lost their income completely because students work in services, work in tourism, do these heavy, hard-earned meals. In Levica, we allow students to be compensated for their income out of their student work. There's a very clear classroom here, too. The 150 euros that students will receive – a few students don't need these 150 euros, and those who need them need more than 150 euros. And these are the students' workers. The ones that work most during the study. And what students work most during college? The ones that come from the poorest families. And it's a shame that after a month of warning the government has taken them out of aid measures again. Students working on incomes need to be helped. Pika. We're saving this in Levica, and we're asking him to take care of it. Of course, all the other workers who work in the profession, the honoraries, the authors' contracts, must receive the same aid as the self-employed. For the record, I'm only going to stop at the unemployed. It is not clear why the Government places unemployment benefits on those who lose their jobs in the middle of the epidemic at a lower level than the unemployment benefit. EUR 530 gross is at least as much as these people should have. And we're also doing this in Levica, and we're saying that all the unemployed should be paid their compensation, but of course, that the time of receiving the compensation should be carried out through the epidemic, not that the people who are already in the middle of the epidemic, the unemployed, should be left without compensation, then – what? Where are they supposed to get a job if everything closes? For May 1st, burning is fired by thousands and more workers. These are just some of the problematic provisions of the corona law and only some of the good solutions that we propose in Levica to put people first, not the profits of banks and the big business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter has the floor and Mrs Andreja Zabret is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. What we have on the table is another reincarnation of this anti-Korona legislation, which is supposed to help offset some of the social nuisances that come with the crisis at the time and after the epidemic. We have presented our criticism long and wide at the first package, mainly in the light that it covers too few isolated groups, that too many groups of people simply, in their own words, stand up. The government coalition then smelled passion with a dictatorship: “Wait for the second package, we will fix it, which we cannot fix now.” But the other package is here and these people are still in the air. This second version of the law also releases too many groups of weak. I will focus on just one — workers who are on hold because of the consequences or the current situation. The purpose of helping the economy in the light of social rescue is to help and save those who create the economy. It's the first stage of the worker, the workers, the people who contribute to it. The previous law, as discussed in the preceding paragraph, was full of incomprehensible vats to help businesses as well. Here we also have to draw attention to one that goes a little over the edge. These workers I am talking about, who are now on hold, do not know whether their company will receive State aid at all, because the vats in this area are unclear, but if they are lucky they are in a company that will receive state aid, they do not know now whether they will be able to stay at work during the crisis or after the crisis. This is the new problem that this law is opening. Because, after the current proposal, we have companies here who, if they already fall over that sieve and get state aid, have no vat to prevent them from holding or firing the people they have waiting for. In other words, they can get some good state-owned, cheap credit and they do not answer to anyone or anyone for social security. If economic and financial and social forecasts are already coming in the direction of the crisis and the deepening of the crisis, as we have not yet had, we must not allow the repetition of the Gorenje scenario to happen. We've mentioned it a few times. Gorenje is now fired, or with May 1st, thousands of people will be fired, and by the new year, they are forecasting so much again. Regardless of the fact that the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Mr Cantarutti, in the same breath or perhaps the same day in the National Assembly, praised Hisense for a long and wide way and how it contributes to the local community, to economic development and so on, it is a scenario that is actually taking place. In order to prevent this kind of nonsense, the social bomb, we have once again proposed in the Left Group, a second time, an amendment that imposes on employers the role or declaration that commits them to retaining the jobs of the workers they have now put on hold. If I finish where I started. The purpose of helping the economy is to help those who create the economy. It's not banks, it's not politics, it's not management, it's people at first stage, it's workers and workers who, with their time, knowledge, energy, they create prosperity, they create progress. It is pointless to take measures that do not serve this purpose and call them social. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Andreja Zabret, and Mr Jani Prednik is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u136	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. The purpose of today's law is certainly good, it contains some solutions that we have also proposed in the LMŠ, but there are still quite a few things open. If the Government were willing to listen and accept the proposals of the professional public and the opposition from the very beginning of the adoption of intervention legislation, as far as the subject of covida-19 is concerned, the matter would be easier, but at each time the coalition has smoothly rejected all amendments. Today there's a mega-repair law. I think that what we accept is more important than the urgency, is what we accept, the content itself, because it is and will be all the laws that are actually applicable back there. As a result of these mega-corrections, we are late for action. They have long since taken certain measures abroad and have helped the economy and people with concrete financial injections. Through the adoption of all the intervention laws, I have wondered, or I have always wondered, how we will finance all these measures, where we will get the resources, because the financial assessment of this law with the novel is good 3 billion. It is likely for all of us that we will have to pay once what the state gives today, so it is very important not to overindebt the country and thus burden the economy, citizens and citizens. The answers were that financial measures have been taken so that the economic life and life of people will not die, businesses and people will receive financial incentives and resources to finance exist, are real and reliable. All of this has changed over the last few days, which concerns me, and it is said that the EU helicopter money is gone and that no one will help us either. As I have already said, this concerns me a little bit, and it is probably clear to everyone that the budget is not a self-service trade. This year we have already committed to a good 3 billion, today we have received a proposal in the National Assembly to amend the budget of the state sector, which proposes to raise the target balance of the state budget from 10 billion 450 to 12 billion 525, which means additional debt for good 2 billion. A quick calculation could be that by the end of the year public debt will be over 82% of the gross social product, so, Minister, I am again asking a question to which committee I have not received an answer: do you plan to save as we have done so far, about 3.35 billion, and all the prior duties you have planned to save as Zujf has done? Can the Government ensure that, after the end of the epidemic, citizens will not receive cuts, belt tightening or possible tax hikes? Dear Government, you have publicly ensured that the amendments to the law will provide assistance to all groups of people. All of them. Young job seekers, students whose student work is the only source of income, have remained overlooked. Also employed under copyright and business contracts. Is this help for all of you? Post-intervention workers will not be provided with jobs. Why don't you help your employees and provide them with job security? You will not be helping the health depository despite the Director's public warnings about the possible collapse of a basket of rights if the healthcare state does not come to the rescue. The novel still does not provide for the retention of employment with the employer receiving state aid, so we have also prepared an amendment in the List of Marjan Šarcs. We welcome that the novel has now taken into account exceptional students when receiving a single supplement, but the beneficiaries are no longer students who have permanent residence in Slovenia and are studying at foreign higher education institutions. This, according to experts, is an illegal and retroactive infringement of the right to which students were entitled under the first intervention law. We are skeptical about the new 62.b Article on temporary exemption from VAT, as we are of the opinion that it does not comply with the Directive on the calculation of value added tax, for which we have also tabled an amendment. If this amendment is not adopted, I think that the Government can shortly receive the European Commission's call that companies cannot settle or settle VAT in this way, as is the case now. Finally, articles that permanently interfere with certain other laws did not form part of this amendment, and their provisions are also substantively questionable. In addition to all of this, the issue of the constitutional dispute arises. Therefore, together with most opposition parties, we have already submitted a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the two articles of the law. Indeed, in the List of Marjan Šarc, we will take advantage of all the options we have to prevent disproportionate interference with the rights of individuals protected by the Constitution. The epidemic is not and must not become a reason to intervene in any way in human rights and freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The Minister has made a statement. Mr. Shircel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. However, I would now like to answer again – once again on Friday or Saturday about borrowing – because I would like these numbers to be accurate and to be interpreted in fact as they are. This year's debt amounted to 5 billion 123 million 301 thousand 435. In January and February of this year. There was no government at the time, there was another government, and that government was then in charge of a billion 542 million. In March and April, the government owed a total of 3 billion 581 million 301 thousand 435. That's a total of 5 billion 100. In 2020, in the first quarter, January, February and March, we paid the principals in the amount of €737 million 498 000 612. In 2020, however, we have to pay together the principals of €2 billion 46 million 834 thousand 779. So that's data and that's actually what needs to be taken into account. We can talk about interest. Interest on the approved budget is expected to pay 751 million, according to a new estimate of 775 million this year. And of course – this 5 billion 100, as much as we owe ourselves this year, or even a little more, is laid down in the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This is now accurate information and I would like to request that we operate with them in advance. What you got today, and what the Government adopted yesterday, is a maximum expenditure decree, where they are increased by about €2 billion, does not mean a direct debt that we will now be in debt by another 2 billion. Because this decree was precisely why it was relatively late to come to the National Assembly, because we had to take some of the measures that we are taking today and which we have already taken into account in the past, even in this decree. So to draw some parallels between this decree, where it increases by about 2 billion expenditure, and the debt here does not have to be – I mean, it is not in place to say now, and that still means 2 billion more. That's not true. From this point of view, I would like to ask that we are accurate here, because, of course, we are also talking to each other, I respect this obedience, and probably someone else, so that I would ask for accuracy in this data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u139	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Jani Prednik has the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u140	Vice President, thank you. Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, a nice greeting! I agree with the Minister, so many words have already been said around this law that he is probably known in almost detail by all citizens and citizens. I'll probably repeat what I said on the board. Still, I don't want to teach anything here, but I already told the board that the government is a separate branch of power from the legislature. The government is an executive branch of power, and on us, parliamentarians elected to the National Assembly, it is that when the Government sends a certain law to the National Assembly, we change it in parts where it is bad. We have listened to this by the SDS throughout the year and a half of the coalition led by Marjan Sarec and in which we also participated by the Social Democrats. You did not listen to the opposition, the GZS, the OZS and other professional services in this law at any given point. Three weeks ago, we proposed about 100 amendments, and here you can admit that if you accepted a tenth of these 100 amendments, you probably wouldn't even have to talk about this law today. Even today, this law is not optimal, since every law also has shortcomings, but if, to some extent, I had already said that there is no need for opposition, we could have listened to the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, then the dissatisfaction of certain parts of people would not be as great as it is today. And I take it that the government has brought the amendment of this law to the National Assembly as some admission that you have not actually cooperated with anyone. You didn't cooperate with the GZS or the OZS, even though you claim to be. Perhaps you are to some extent, but why are you not fully listening to these associations? I understand that you are not listening to the opposition, for example, logically from this political prestige, but when we talk about vulnerable groups, this political prestige should not be in the first place either. But as we can see, it's in the first place. Cooperation is always a two-way street. Not today, but three weeks ago, for everything we proposed, we heard from the coalition that we were not constructive. Let one SDS representative tell me what a constructive opposition would be like. That the opposition is quiet? If so, you do not live in the right system, perhaps you should move to another country. The constructive opposition means that the opposition is making constructive proposals. And all the proposals three weeks ago, and even today, prepared by colleagues in Levica, LMŠ and SD, are constructive and do not in any way break or substantially change the law. That's probably it, Minister, you can admit it. You have included some vulnerable groups in this amendment, more than then. We had already, in fact, the entire opposition, pointed out that you had missed outstanding students, and instead of adopting our amendment three weeks ago, you have now included extraordinary students in this law. Which is commendable, but it only points to your non-cooperation and not cooperation, as you point out. But you have also released students who are Slovenian citizens and are studying in another country in this novel. I come from Koroška, which is on the border with Austria. A bunch of Korean students are studying in Austria and are not eligible for this solidarity allowance. Somebody explain it to them. The coalition's already been on the committee quietly, and it's still quiet today. Minister, at least you can explain why they're not justified. Why are these exceptional students who are Slovenian citizens studying in Celovac, most of them students who study music are not entitled to this solidarity allowance? You've added foster parents, which is commendable. Once again, I will point out some illogicality, which, by the way – an addition to the real sector of 200 euros, is commendable, is okay, but I have warned three weeks ago, I have warned the committee and I will also point out today: not everyone working in the real sector is entitled to the same amount of 200 euros, in my opinion. Levels in Koroška, where I come from, there's a heavy industry, a blacksmith, a heating plant, and the industry isn't stopping there. Many Ravencans, Korosts in general, walk during the crisis, these epidemics to work and will be eligible for as much as 200 euros as those who have been working from home for a month and a half or the last month. The families of whose workers are potentially more exposed to the virus? Yeah, probably those who just go to work every day. And we should evaluate, probably with the euro that those who work from home are entitled to EUR 200, if you have determined that, and those who go to work and are potentially more exposed, up to EUR 400. I'm not saying, because it's also okay to get all 200, but the treatment just isn't the same. Despite the fact that three weeks ago the opposition MPs were transported to all the amendments – we tried for 70 hours to convince you with these ones, “give them consideration, at least one of them to vote”, you went as a bulldozer, as a roller boy, and you hit everything – we have also prepared amendments today. Not as much as three weeks ago. We have them here, some of them are the same as the colleagues of the Left. We will probably discuss the amendments in more detail then, but one article or one amendment is such that I see no reason to reject it today. This is an article referring to the right to a financial compensation for unemployed persons who are entitled to an expiry of that right in March or in those months when the epidemic is taking place. These people are not to blame for the time of the epidemic now, and when their replacement is over, they will simply lose everything. All we want with this amendment is to extend them by one month and then by one month, and by one month for the duration of the epidemic. I guess that makes sense. And this is not a destructive proposal, this is a completely constructive proposal that we are trying to solve those who might lose any income at this time. And he does? And why won't you support such an amendment? Give me someone here to explain logically that I will understand. I don't understand. Just because of political prestige, leaving a bunch of people on the road with no income – yes, that probably isn't working. And it's no wonder that then the citizens don't really trust anyone anymore. It's not ideological, it's purely social. So let me see you vote on the amendment to Article 17, whether you support it or not. But you can explain yourself and give reasons why you won't support it. I'd like to hear your reasons, too, so that I can tell these people, look, the right-wing majority in the National Assembly just made that decision. It's also a legitimate right, but let me tell you, come on. In the end, Dr. Gorenak is gone, and earlier, he shaved on my debate on the committee, regarding his comments. I have the same paper I had on the board again. I don't know whether it's Friday or Saturday. After this first corona package was adopted, you wanted comments by the Social Democrats on the law. Here. And we sent this on 10 April 2020. After that, some material was sent back — and I say later — where paragraphs 41 and 42 were added, but we were not able to say earlier that these two articles were not part of this law. And then we listen to the obvious that we don't send or that we don't send out the right time to comment. In the end, you know, when nothing is taken into account, yes, we have no choice but to say that when the media asks us or we sign up for the debate in the National Assembly, and we say that out loud. There's a lot of good in this law, and we can't say no to that in the opposition either, but you've let go of what you know, a bunch of vulnerable groups that could be given those, whatever they're called, supplements or solidarity supplements. Because in the 3 billion you spend in the first crown, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 or 20 million euros is a statistical error. It's not even a statistical error. But it does? The minister's laughing, but we both know he's holding it. Because it's not even clear in this law whether we're going to spend 2 billion and a half or we're going to spend 4 billion. So come on, come on. After we get to the amendments, I'm going to come back and I'm going to reexplain the amendment and I'm going to ask you again to explain why you won't support it, so at least those who watch the meeting will know it because I don't understand it. However, I am by nature an optimist, until the vote is no more than five hours, and I hope you will at least change your mind by then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Since I see that there is still an interest in the debate, I am opening a new circle. Please sign in. We have 10 interviewees reported. The first one gets the word mag. Marko Pogačnik, prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u142	Madam President, thank you for the floor. We have before us the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Intervention Measures to combat the COVID-19 epidemic and to mitigate its consequences for citizens and the economy. The proposed law corrects the ambiguities set out in the first law and lays down additional measures to contain the epidemic and mitigate its consequences. The new law introduces a reduction in the conditions for the remuneration of salaries pending work, which was one of the most important requirements of the economy. After the new aid, companies will be entitled to the aid, which, following their assessment this year, will fall by a tenth or more compared to last year. If they did not operate throughout last year, employers are entitled to the aid, which will be reduced by more than a tenth this year by the average monthly income of last year. The new beneficiaries of the aid are also insurance employers with up to 10 employees, mainly smaller insurance intermediaries and humanitarian and disability organisations. An important change brought about by the amendment of the law is that, despite the use of the aid, companies will be able to pay their employees the Business Performance Prizes if, of course, the companies are in a successful business situation. I'm sure that's a strong motivation for all employees. The negative effects of the epidemic on the Slovenian economy can be mitigated considerably by accelerating investment from both the state and the municipalities and from private companies. The proposal for this amendment also provides for measures to accelerate the issuance of building permits and to simplify and shorten administrative procedures under the Construction Law and environmental protection and conservation regulations. This measure will certainly allow for an additional start-up of activities, which is even more than added value in the given situation, and I am sure that on the basis of this measure we will be able to talk about additional revenue in the budget and also about job conservation. This amendment also extends the range of beneficiaries provided by the State to individual groups. There is a wide range of beneficiaries for exceptional students, disabled persons, family assistants, foster parents, parental allowance, child care allowance, maternity or parental allowance, beneficiaries of partial payment for lost income due to the care and protection of children, as well as war veterans and disabled persons with the sole benefit of a veteran or family allowance. The beneficiary of a single solidarity allowance of EUR 30 for a child will also be one of the parents or another person for each child entitled to a child allowance in the 1st to 6th grade. I am convinced that these amendments and novelties brought by these intervention measures, which extend the range of beneficiaries of State aid, simplify the procedures for obtaining aid and will, in particular, ensure better liquidity for businesses, as well as the possibility of continuing to operate and maintaining jobs. I certainly cannot agree with some of the debates of Members and Members of the opposition that all these laws are directed primarily at larger companies. Many times the banks were mentioned. It is certainly necessary to say that all these aid measures are excluded for banks and insurance undertakings. The fact is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia listened to the opposition's proposals, listened to the economic chamber's proposals, listened to the proposals of the Chamber of Commerce and other institutions, as reflected in this amendment to the law. This amendment extends the range of beneficiaries who are eligible for State aid, would not list them again, they have been listed and, in fact, a slight number of restrictions that were in force in the initial start-up and were mainly affected by economies. It must be said that the Committee on Finance adopted this law without a vote against it. The acceptance without objection certainly shows that the opposition agrees that this law is appropriate. The measures provided for in this Act will be directed primarily to those targeted at them, namely, the most vulnerable groups of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, businesses.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Violeta Tomić, Mr Aleksander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister! That's what I'm gonna say. When the Government of the Third Janša government took over, the pandemic nearly struck at the same time, and then we decided in Levica that we would constructively work together to solve this problem together, and then we could move on to any other ideological or political struggles. But with the first corona package, all our hope fell into the water, because because of the Government's ignorance of all opposition parties, to unions, to NGOs and even the Law and Law Service of the National Assembly, the first law was passed in the form of an incoherent splinter with a multitude of injustices, legal loopholes and even constitutionally disputed provisions. Although they promised to help citizens, they left a whole bunch of citizens and groups behind. I'm not going to say that they've forgotten them, because now that we're taking on the other Coronapacket, we can see that they've deliberately forgotten them. Indebted households and businesses, as the Government continues to allow banks to account for interest at deferred credits, self-employed persons, despite some cosmetic adjustments, will be excluded from aid, self-employed parents for a certain period of time, partially self-employed, students, those studying abroad, as mentioned earlier, pupils, especially from poor families who are not entitled to any assistance, tenants of homes and business premises who will not receive any assistance, even though, for example, companies cannot even operate, workers on hold, pensioners, to whom the Government retains a problematic way of providing assistance, elderly people in homes where the State does not provide them with hospital treatment, beneficiaries of disability insurance, private sector workers, then in the public sector. In short, that's a lot. Holiday workers, poor families and families with less than three children, because you encourage those with more, children from poor families, people without health insurance and so on and so on. All of this was in our amendments, and I therefore strongly reject that the opposition did not participate constructively, both in the first crown of the package and in the second. Now the government has had enough time and could at least take some action. On the other hand, it seems alarming to us that under the cover of emergency measures, the Government also includes in the proposal for an intervention law very controversial articles, which are environmentally and socially dangerous. In fact, it limits the competence of NGOs in the field of environment and space and allows human rights violations, and its adoption would also violate the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Aarhus Convention and the European Directive. In short, it is an abuse of the urgent procedure for emergency measures, the Construction Law, the Environmental Protection Act, they go around here, the Law on Administrative Procedure, which is explained by the silence. There are too many restrictions on public participation. At least now we know it's Plečnik's stadium, and his new owner Joc Pečečnik first got quite a bit of the budget money to intervene in masks, now he's going to go around all the legislation, right through an article that actually doesn't solve anything about the social situation of citizens. And there's, you know, a big danger. It is also an intervention measure without a period of time. I'm telling you about chapter 23, Construction of buildings, from which the civil initiative will be completely excluded. I would like to draw your attention to Article 20, which allows employers to extend their work and thereby violate their basic rights to rest. This means that even for several months without adequate compensation or protection of workers' rights to weekly or daily rest. The human resources poverty of certain key sectors, such as health and social protection, must not be tackled by overloading already overburdened workers who have already been completely burned in the regular working relationship. This is a risk to the safety and health of workers and, consequently, to the users of these services. Because I'm running out of time, I'm gonna finish here. I would like to point out that this second corona law introduces many highly ecological and constitutionally controversial categories under the cover of measures to solve the problems of the crown and pandemic. We warned about this in Levica, but unfortunately we haven't been heard. Let us hope that at least today you will listen to one of the initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Reberšek is next, and Mr Jože Lenart is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u146	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. At this time, I receive many messages, and allow me to read one, and I ask the distinguished minister for an answer. “Honored! I'm the mother of a two-and-a-half-year-old daughter, I've been self-employed for 10 years. Last year and a half, I've been taking advantage of half my working time for parenting, which the state legally allows me to do. This means that half my contributions are paid by the CSD and the other half by the age of three. I am insured for 40 hours, i.e. full-time, 20 hours on an insurance basis under Article 15 of the ZPIZ-2 and 20 hours on an insurance basis under Article 19(2) second paragraph. The parents we use this option are huge. Espe is our only source of income. I repeat, the only source of income. We don't get anything from any other address or source. We've been out of revenue for a month and a half. Income is just as nothing. In the first aid package we were forgotten, in the second aid package you included us, for which we are grateful. However, after reading we found that we are only half involved in the aid, it is said that we have a proportional share of the monthly base income of EUR 175 for the month of March, EUR 350 for the month of April and EUR 350 for the month of May. We ask you how to pay rents and the cost of business premises, the cost of credit or renting apartments, and in particular how to buy food and other emergency supplies for children, diapers, food, medicines, hygiene supplies. Our costs are not half, but we must pay them in full. What do we want? All we want is for you to compare us to full-time espies when it comes to basic monthly income, because it is only that we have small children and the state allows us to take advantage of half-time work due to parenthood. When our children are three years old or in the case of two children another six years old, we will continue to pay our contributions in full, just as we have done before. Only this is the difference that we are now taking advantage of the opportunity given by the State to work part-time for the sake of parenthood, and we are insured during this period when we use half-time for the sake of parenthood for full-time work. Our contributions are paid in full, the same as full-time espies paid. We ask you to accept in the second aid package the supplement that even for those of us who benefit from part-time work due to parenthood, the whole monthly basic income and not only half-time, since this espie, as we have already mentioned, is our only resource with which we serve. We will not get rich with these 700 euros, but we will be able to pay at least a few of the costs that we have and have accumulated in the month and a half of our non-business. This will only make it easier for us to start the business of our espionage after the crisis has ended." I ask you, Mr. Secretary, whether half-time parents will receive the full monthly basic income. Paying them 50% is a matter of family policy. I believe that espies with prohibited activities should receive the full monthly basic income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Does the minister want to answer? Not right now, obviously. Mr Jože Lenart is next in line to prepare Mr Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Government, Minister, how many times have you heard comments in the last days, which groups have fallen out of this basic income that every Slovenian, every citizen, from a baby to a century old, should have been assured to survive? The Sharcha government declared a pandemic on March 13th, and your government imposed strict quarantine measures. This is a situation in which certain groups have no possibility of income unless they have other social assistance or other incomes because they cannot work. We are all here today or in the last days trying to catch these groups and help them survive, but, in part, you have heard us and you still do not want to hear about certain groups. There is no way I can avoid the feeling that you have acted or are still acting disproportionately. I'm sure in the future, these weeks, months, you'll have to fix this mistake, fix it, otherwise it's not going to work. Finally, I highlighted a letter from a reader who pointed out that some groups, including pensioners, had received it. We have nothing against pensioners, but I am sure that these grandparents, grandmothers, mothers, fathers who receive pensions and receive this allowance will now help those groups of students who do not have income today, those first job seekers who are without all income. That's the only solution if the government doesn't listen to us. And this is also the goal of our amendments to Article 15, these two groups, students studying at home and abroad who are today without income, and the first job seekers. The last time I read to you at the meeting, they gave us accurate information on how many of these people there are. There's 20 grand on the 31st. 3. all those who are completely without income, and in these months this number will double, triple. That's all we're warning you about. That's all we want. That's all we want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Pavšić is next, and Mr Željko Cigler is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u150	Thanks again. In view of the silence I will answer Mr Prednik why the amendments are not accepted – because he can. A number of debaters have already been involved, and not a single answer. And apparently with the content of the law something is so bad that the new coalition cannot agree with it in its entirety and completely cohesive species. Another fix. It's not another reincarnation. It's the third reincarnation of this law. With such a brain trust as we are monitoring today, I would first like to ask two questions. Is there a contingency plan? Do we have a plan for every little thing in this country, or do we at least have an existence? I'd like you to confirm. We took 5 billion, that's 5,000 million, Euros of credit. At least let me know if we know what we're going to do with them, except now we're going to distribute them to the people they actually need. But you also have to see what happens next if it doesn't make absolutely no sense. We are now following a slight forecast. People are supposed to come back or slowly start going back to work, those who have not been able to work so far, kind of after May 4. Today, we learned again that on May 11th, perhaps even kindergartens could be opened and schools could be opened. What about public transport? I don't know. And then there are calls from the opposition to let you cooperate – but you obviously know all by yourself. On 17 March, the last National Security Council was convened, from 17 March to today, you yourself discussed how to deal with this crisis and how to proceed. No opposition. Second question. You expect us to support a law that we have always claimed is full of holes and yet you have not reported on the first amendment or the second amendment, even though I think the deadline has expired and should have already received in the National Assembly a report on transfers within the budget, how the first coronation was implemented. Then we received in our views the recognition that errors are being made in haste — of course, that is what we have been alerting — and that there are some excuses and that there are urgent adjustments for those who have failed. I personally wrote to you at the first reading of this law the appeals of the institutions and individuals that I received only that day and called for them to be included in this law. Despite the appeal, you have forgotten about children with special needs or parents with special needs, and only now are there so - called family helpers. You are reluctant to forget about tourist workers, 110 000 employees are in tourism, representing more than 12% of all employees in Slovenia. Tourism is the sector that will be much more affected than the other industries, because there is no way to make up for the backlog. What's once been delayed is gone, it never comes back. But you did not forget those who took the loans, but only for — how much? For 14 days, then we had to quickly change the law and accept that the moratorium does not mean a delay without interest, but a delay with interest. Everyone will get something, only those who lost the most will lose the extra. And then what we keep reminding ourselves of is not only us, but also the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly – non-interventional content is quickly hidden in every such bill. Article 103, exchange of data between the NIJ and the MNZ. You probably forgot last time we were supposed to go both ways, and now we're fixing it again. And that's also, if you ask me, a dispute. Then there are two major right-wing politicians, not exactly the same political option, and they are talking about how in just hundreds of hours, you have prepared a great law, even though we are fixing it for the third time today, and that the opposition has either been insidious or non-responsible in both procedures. And we're just going to the last case to make it clear to everyone. We got a draft on Saturday. On Monday, you expected us to give you the amendments. How do we get you amendments to the draft? I mean, we're not talking about the North Korean missile program. That's where he tries, if he goes, if he doesn't, someone's going to get pissed. I'm responsible, I'm sorry, I don't want to, and I won't take it. Either we're talking about some final version or it doesn't even make sense to talk. And that. We discussed this on Friday at the Committee on Finance. On the table we had all the additions, completed all the proposals by the opposition, but we did not have, I must stress, complemented the coalition. So, at least you were holding on to your hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Željko Cigler has the following word, and Mrs Lidija Ivanuša is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Left has also drafted an amendment to Article 15, which touches on a socially vulnerable group, namely the nutrition of primary schoolchildren and students during schooling. Now that we're under the virus, primary and secondary schools are closed. Many children in primary and secondary schools received free lunches and lunches during school. These are children for whom humanitarian organisations, and especially social work centres, warn that for many of them, the only warm meal they received was the food they received at school. The primary school or students are in school by 2 p.m. or 3 p.m. For example, the average school in Celje has 45% at free lunch and 6% at free lunch in 4 thousand 500 primary schools. It is therefore proposed in Levica that an amendment be granted to beneficiaries under Article 25 or 26 of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds to benefit from a subsidy for lunch and lunch and that it be paid as a one-month solidarity allowance at the rate of three times the grant granted. Similarly, our thought, and the amendment, has also been supported by Nova Slovenija in its public statement. I hope that her Members will vote as well. It is not an ideology, it is a matter of providing food for the socially weaker children in Slovenia today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Lidija Ivanuša, Mr Jani Ivanuša is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I've been hearing dissatisfaction since 9:00 a.m. Ladies and gentlemen, if we could just start with yours, what we are not and what we should include in these two packages, I would like to ask you first why you did not take immediate action in Slovenia in the decision-making position when we warned the opposition about them. And speaking of why and therefore, I would mention the stocks of masks and empty warehouses on this subject. Why didn't you think it was worth taking care of? Why did millions of masks go to China? Because maybe you thought that God would say that our will would happen, we'd go to the polls and the business would go on. Your scribblings would fill up so far and everything would be fine. What's going on in the background, nobody would know. Also because no one would report it. I'm sure of that now, after everything that's going on. Because at this point, when our government is successfully solving the covida-19 issues, you're spitting on the action. Complain of the hard work that has been put into this area by people who care about Slovenia and have been working night and day to save all sectors, as far as possible, in order to make Slovenia feel as little about the consequences of this unfortunate disease as possible, which no one knows. There's help for everyone in these two packages. And who are you now to despise the work you have rejected? With this crucifixion on the cross of our government, successful governments, which they also recognize abroad, I feel sorry that you have left power out of hand and underestimated the possibility of finally meeting people's minds and finding that the policies of integration, effort and work can achieve and do much. Why would I say you're sorry? Because of all the overindulgence of appetites, and because you've been reprimanded by your superiors, it would be called that. Those of you who should come along with us in these times of crisis, as it is a matter of helping people, and working in a transparent manner, and engaging in good proposals, as regards the assistance and harassment of covida-19, should help your own people, not by beating on ministers, throughout the government, punching on your own people and contesting the effectiveness of all the measures taken by our government. You protect people that these measures are too harsh and unnecessary and that no one gets anything or gets anything. It is very interesting, however, that all other countries congratulate us for all these measures, for the success of the infestation. Despite your media power and all the vile actions against the ministers and the government and all the obstacles the government is doing well, doing good for the people. Your preservation, however, leads to some people’s disregard for measures to make them dissatisfied and so on. And what's most dangerous is that closing down congregations makes no sense to you. Is this really so terrible for the cost of one life, maybe your moms, your kids, your dad? We are not all equally susceptible to this disease, but here are those who serve this disease in their lives. And again, why are you doing this? So that you can finally say how incompetent this government of ours is, and put yourself at the forefront, if this were to be done much better on your part. But it wasn't because you blew it. What did your government really do for people? Destructive laws for businesses that are shameful to workers have been evaluated by work, farming. However, they were excellent laws for those who hung on social assistance, healthy and able to work, and instead of importing workers, it could be those recipients of social assistance working on the farm and elsewhere where there is currently a shortage of labour, to themselves and their families that could provide a better future. This tells us common sense, and so most people who work and fight for bread see it. Finally, I would say that it will be time for you to attack our President hopelessly and throw your prey under his feet, at this time and in such a situation that threatens lives, and that is neither ethical nor moral nor in the place of some professional policy that you play in this temple of democracy. You had the chance to save Slovenia from the disease, but you closed your eyes and blew it like a Hooker from a beast at a crucial moment. Those who are not afraid of responsibility and work are left behind, and let them work without false news. The government is doing well, the first and second package measures are good and are intended for all people, and people will feel it regardless of your deceptions.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša has the following word, and Mrs Nataša Sukič is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Once again a nice greeting to all present! If we looked at the epidemic a little bit wider, I'd point out the following. We got another earring from Europe. A good decade ago, when the economic crisis hit us, they turned their backs on us when the migration crisis hit, this year when we had an epidemic, we were alone again. The European Union is not prepared for any problem that arises, so once again individual calls by individual members of the European Union to withdraw from the European Union have emerged. So, nothing good from the European Union. As far as security is concerned, we can reconsider the protection of the state border. This must become impenetrable for all illegal migrants. If the Government can limit movement only within its municipality for Slovenian citizens, it should monitor even more effectively the prohibition of entry into the country for illegal migrants. In these times, the government has even stronger arguments, because I do not want the spread of the virus across our country. Slovenia has every right to close borders because of the epidemic or to open them whenever it wants to. This means that Slovenia could have a decisive impact on the performance of the Croatian tourist season, which represents an important share of the Croatian budget. Italians will certainly not want to drive to Croatia via Austria and Hungary. Croatian Minister of Tourism Gari Cappelli said about the tourist season and the opening of the border that perhaps the best solution with Slovenia would be discussed bilaterally. Whenever Croatia wants bilateral talks – even forced to do so in the event of an epidemic – Slovenia should take advantage of this as a negotiating advantage in the final resolution of the border issue. I will continue with a partial replica to Mr Vink Gorenak, who was present here earlier and mentioned the Slovenian National Party in explaining the comments and even mentioning that we have achieved a great deal. I'll call it that we haven't achieved anything as a client. So I'm very sorry, but at the previous point, I mentioned that we had tabled amendments and that they were rejected. Gentlemen from today's opposition, I'll say again, I think that the SD gentleman was talking about how we're going, politics is a bulldozer. Well, that's right. Five months ago, she was no better. She was also a bulldozer in the game. As far as marriage is concerned, I would like to refer to Luca Mesca because he himself said that the marriage was extremely complicated in a bureaucratic sense — I am joining him. I am pleased, personally, that in this law, 30 euros for every minor is allocated to children by the age of 18.30. And even though you're counting this, 200,000 children, it's a measure that costs 15 million euros, but we know who we're working for. I'd like a little more agriculture, a little more tourism. These values, which are also in play so that they can be used within 24 months in the event of a holiday payment, are commendable. But with agriculture, that's the way it is. The minister calls for seasonal work to be joined as much as possible, but we encounter the problem of paying the hourly item, which of course is not – although we know that under the law at least 5.16 gross, 4 euros net, unfortunately it is not regulated how this should be applied in practice. Farmers point to the buying-in price of live animals, according to questionable cattle – currently prices per kilogram are live weight between 20 and 30 cents lower, but if we look in butchers, prices have risen by almost a third. There's just nothing going on here. Then I'd talk about food being abnormally irrigated, silently, but it's irritated. Although we understand the emergency situation, food is on the increase. Just a little bit, but it's going up. Guesthouses, the inn's closed. All these business entities are closed, they just don't work. Behind them are the winemakers, the wine industry, we are talking about the economic sector within agriculture. This is one big disaster. No one – I haven't found them in the marriage, they're obviously left out somewhere, just like in all the laws that are meant for agriculture. I'm afraid they have a dark future ahead of them. Even these state subsidies, this is a directive of Europe, have broken down, have totally ruined healthy agriculture, because they are not written on the skin of everyone, but only individuals, I would say, elites or whatever. So, Minister of Agriculture, please, things are very messy here and we're still going to have to do or fix things. The only good thing about this story is that it is possible to determine or see around self-sustainment – somewhere on average between 38 and 42 points of Slovenian self-sustainment – that at least the Slovenian food began to be valued and took into account what is domestically produced in Slovenia. That it is appreciated that even a few cents more may be possible, although I mentioned earlier that food is being auctioned, but that it is Slovenian food, that it is not all this klump, because we know the questionable quality that we import. It is true that there are three sectors, cattle, poultry and dairy, which are more than 100 per cent of self-sustainment, although we aim to ensure that in Slovenia the most domestically produced, that Slovenian consciousness can be strengthened, the Slovenian food can be used and will be good both for producers and for those who use it. That would be everything on my side for now. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Natasa Sukić, to prepare Mr Jure Ferjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u158	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor! This Coronapack is by its great disappointment. Not because I wouldn't include a lot of good solutions, but because he ruled out a lot of people, especially the opposition. During such a major health crisis, which has affected all of us, we are all sitting in the same boat and should actually act as a government of national unity. That is to say, it would be necessary to take into account the constructive proposals of the opposition, which were huge, but they were practically nothing. You crossed us like you crossed many. For example, the government has never really justified why some vulnerable groups are eligible only for a single solidarity allowance, while other groups are eligible for measures and assistance until the end of the epidemic. Moreover, the coalition introduces an amendment that will even deprive those who live together with the beneficiary of the solidarity allowance for pensioners, so those who care for the elderly in the common household will be unduly deprived of the allowance. But let us take a closer look at what is even worse — the instigation. Let us recall Article 103 of the First Coroner’s Article 103 in this package, some of them in this package, such as paragraphs 42 and 49. These are articles, measures that do not really contribute to the fight against the epidemic, but are aimed at completely different matters. For example, Article 42 significantly reduces spatial and environmental standards, while preventing NGOs from participating in legal procedures relating to the issuance of building permits, thereby opening the door wide to dirty capital whose projects threaten the environment and nature. And when is that? In a time of global environmental crisis, in a time of climate change that threatens a planet with collapse. Who says that this virus is not, after all, the result of climate change? Or do we know he didn't? Do we know that there will be no more and more health crises of this type? And what do we do? At such a sensitive moment, we play with matters such as environmental standards. This Article should simply be deleted. As is necessary to delete Article 49, which also does not constitute an intervention measure to remedy the consequences of the epidemic, but is a permanent intervention in the Local Self-Government Act, in a way that significantly changes the functioning of municipal councils and creates opportunities for non-democratic practices and exclusion of public control. As a matter of fact, it's a permanent procedure. I understand it says that in the case of crises, but it also says "other circumstances" and these other circumstances are not really defined, and when something is not defined, we have a crazy space for manipulation, interpretation and so on and so on. In short, it is not an intervention measure in the case of Article 49, and even in the case of Article 42, for within three months, excuse me, matters are not due to administrative procedures, because we are in crisis because some of the works have temporarily stopped. And you're cheating and deceiving the public if you're going to speed up some projects, and you're not going to really tell which ones. And apparently, as far as Article 49 is concerned, which also contains elements [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. I'm sorry your time is up, so you can't be heard anymore. Thank you. The next one has the word, Mr Jura Ferrjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u160	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Your Honor! Let me share a personal story with you. Maybe a story from the field and a family story for me. Father and wife are both professional drivers, truck drivers, and in these days, they work normally, just as they did before the outbreak was declared. In the past days, they received a supplement which we have already confirmed by Members and Members with the approval of Anti-Coronapack number one, and the reaction is inspiring to me, because they were extremely happy, and in particular grateful to the Government and not least to the Members and Members who confirmed this supplement. My wife’s father even said that during all the years of work, and this number moves around 40, he did not receive any supplement from the country. It is inspiring, however, because if they are grateful, we must be so much more grateful after all, not only to them, but to all drivers, drivers who risk their health daily and thus their lives, that trade is also at the time of the epidemic, even during the pandemic as it was before, and that no one is missing. The original anti-koronapack number one has involved a million citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and with the amendment and supplementation law we add an additional 200,000 inhabitants of our country to this package. The allowance will also be granted to the beneficiaries of the parental allowance, the beneficiaries of the child-care allowance, the foster parents, the family assistants, and, last but not least, the exceptional students. It is also important to stress that the so-called unemployment compensation will also be granted to those who do not meet the conditions under current legislation to obtain this compensation. The solidarity allowance is received, or after the approval of this law or amendments and additions, by persons with disabilities and by war veterans, and we have not forgotten farmers over 65 years of age. And this is where I could list it. In short, a whole series of groups that need a supplement and deserve a supplement. It is not possible to overlook the fact that the solidarity allowance will also be received by the parents of one or two children, the recipients of the child supplement belonging to the 1st to 6th income class. I am pleased that the anti-koronapack number one or its additions and amendments to the Committee on Finance were adopted without a vote – 10 votes in favour and none against. I believe that a great deal of support, broad support, will also be given to today's plenary session, but I wish that Members and members of the opposition would not only abstain or not vote, but that the law which brings further assistance to the Slovenian population and to the Slovenian economy will be supported. Respected and respected, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not prepared these measures for each other, for ours or yours, on the basis of the political orientation of citizens and citizens, but has prepared measures for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And, honored and respected, if not today, if not now, then when is it time for Members and Members to come together and take measures that are good for people who are good for the country? I'm sure we know and we can, and I wish this day was already today.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u161	Thank you very much. We have concluded this round of discussions. I'm asking if anyone else has an interest in the debate. [[Yeah.]] Because I see that, yes, I'm opening a new cycle of applications. Please sign in. We've got five reported discussers. The first gets the word, Mr Vojko Starović, is preparing for Mr Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good-bye, everybody! I'll be brief. When we said – SAB, just to be clear – that we would be constructive opposition, we did so all the time. We made proposals, we drafted amendments, but things weren't adopted. But our marriage, to say the least, is not that we don't support it, we're not for, like you said, but we're not against it. So we leave the government and the position of responsibility to adopt these laws. If our comments are not taken into account, it is therefore only your responsibility as to how the matter will proceed. But we had a wish that I would like to say again, and think again in advance – to monitor this package, which is in three and a half billion, it is huge, through one item, through a special fund, so that we can monitor it, and all the revenue and all the expenditure that comes from where things come from and where they go. This does not mean that this can be monitored if it is distributed by different ministries, otherwise at covida-19 items. So, our wish was, and also for your sake, that the matter is to be monitored and monitored and that we also set up a special committee or subcommittee to monitor it. Again, it's big money, it's important things, and I think we should follow this idea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Marko Bandelli, prepare Ms Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u164	Thank you, Madam President. I can't help but answer what I heard earlier from my colleague Lydia Ivanus. I'll tell you some facts here about this law and these things that are happening here. Dear, look, there was a place with masks, there was a place with gloves, there was a fence that was set up so many years ago, there was a place, no one knew what it was. For the last ones on the border, we don't even know who, where, where, how they were placed and what happened. You describe and repressively treat people, to protestors, not to speak. Police militarisation is constant, in the phase, the police state is becoming. You have ideologically replaced the entire peak of important functions, which is here in Slovenia. You're attacking honest media. You write disgraceful dispatches. You accuse us all of being communists and all journalists of being communists. You have people on top of the state's functions who are in the process. You put us in jail, homes. Some are limited to congregations that do not even have stores, but open churches, I have heard today. And the churches will be open. You pass laws that only seem to plague the issue. I can't believe it. These aren't smart laws that would do anything. But we will support them — because what else do we have? At least something. Whatever we suggest is always rejected, dear colleague. Everything! How can you say how we behave?Oh, my God! You see how you treat citizens, to the state itself! You lower wages for all and then take such conclusions to raise wages for only some – not yet, they will be any time. We're not fools, are we? We're going to have a good time with the next two generations. A hundred percent! We will not, I repeat, oppose this law, just take a hand to heart, not speak in that way, because we only make good suggestions. 270 amendments last time and now, I think even more, even more than 270. Only one was accepted. One. I'm one! I mean, constructively, constructively, if that's constructively, we're already doing a third version of this law and it's certainly not going to end because it's already predicted that there's going to be another option. [[…]] We're probably going to be doing variants after this epidemic is over. But then we'll ask ourselves what we really did. So I apologize, but it's not right, what you said before. Such insults to us — because we only want the good of our country! We don't sound stupid. We agree only on constructively doing this matter together. However, consider something about this. Negative all, you just have used that minus button that's right here in front of us. It's already been used. That's all you can squeeze. So don't say things like that. If we need to work constructively, as the opposition has said, my colleague Starović, we are in favour of doing and also confirming certain things that need to be done. We'll be happy to confirm. Not to speak so insultingly to us, to the opposition. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ivanusha has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u166	Dear Mr Bandelli, we are not insulting to you, but I would remind you and ask perhaps you, your President, how much she has trusted us for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u167	Member of the Commission, this was not a replica because you did not explain your part of the debate to which the replica is intended, so please do not take the floor now, because I did not give it to you. [[…]] This should be a warning for the next replica when you replicate one of the Members. Ms Monika Gregorčič is next, Mr Boris Doblekar is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u168	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Now, my predecessor, Comrade Bandelli, has given me a lot of points to answer his allegations and insults, even though he for insults has admitted that they are being received by the opposition, but he has spent quite a lot of them, lies, manipulations, deceptions. However, I would like to start a little more calmly, a little more constructively, as was the debate on the Finance Committee on this proposal last week. Yes, it was a constructive debate, including the outcome of the end, confirming this amendment of the law without a vote against it was a good sign, but today's debate at the plenary session – the opposition obviously cannot take advantage of such critical, difficult conditions at the time of the epidemic to raise its own political points, political prestige and political struggle. The LMŠ Member's observations regarding the non-exclusion of the SNAV were quite out of place, after the SNAV's reference at the time when they led the government was not uncertain how many months and they did not hope to call on it, because they should have invited the opposition. With regard to the obvious that there was no time for them to prepare the amendments and submit them to the coalition – yes, that is the situation, the hectic, the time pressure. But I believe they weren't used to working at this pace. I really can't imagine, look at you, looking into your own eyes at your constituents because you're challenging, criticising the solutions to this marriage proposal, which essentially gives people help, financial resources, helping the economy to restart. You are looking for the hair in the egg to get as much dirt as possible on all the proposals that come to the table by the Government, but in fact we can thank you for this situation, because you have completely screwed up not only the response to the epidemic – let me remind you, the former Prime Minister has resigned himself, you have not been demolished by the biggest opposition party of the time, we have not demolished you in the Modern Centre Party in Desus or in the NSa. So somehow you can celebrate your defeats with the rhetoric we've heard. As far as my colleague Bandell's concerned. Eyewitnesses regarding the acquisition of protective equipment that this place is – respected colleague Bandelli, I must remind you of the constitutionally protected rule on the presumption of innocence. Read this article of the Constitution. Then it is apparent that Slovenia has become a police state – you obviously do not know the situation in other countries of the European Union, what measures are being taken there. And the evidence of the sinking of democracy – please. The greatest diversion is to listen to these eyewitnesses on the left side of the political spectrum, and I am speaking in general now, because we know who ruled us and what ruled us for the good half of the century. We had a proletariat dictatorship, if I recall correctly. However, 30 years have passed since the first democratic multilateral elections, and in these elections the right political spectrum with democratic processes has in fact only gained the possibility of political participation, so it is at odds with any logic that now these parties, who have only been given the right to enter and act politically, would break this democracy. When you say that we are in prison because of the epidemic we are imprisoned in the congregation – I will only summarize the official statement by the Government of Kacin that if this epidemic is to be carried out, this life-threatening condition at home on the couch is probably not the worst thing that can happen to us in life. But when you talk about constructiveness – so do we in the coalition want it very much on your part. For the time being, constructiveness has remained only at the level of words, with little action. But today you can prove that by pressing the key for when we accept this and all the other anti-Corron laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u169	Thank you very much. We have two replicas and one procedural. She has the advantage of procedure, so Mrs. Natasa Sukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u170	Thank you, Madam President. I'm proceding to suggest that you give your colleagues a reminder, because this went beyond all decency. Depressed statements about how the opposition is not used to doing and things like that, which is a big deal. Large, after all the amendments we've drafted in the opposition in the first and second packages. And then this transfer around the police state and so on. Dear colleague, read only today's or yesterday's Twitter of the interior minister and you'll know what a police state is if you don't know it yet. So I ask you to remind your colleague that he will cease such denigrating insults against the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. As you know, as President, I cannot interfere substantively with the debates of Members, so that your procedural proposal for a reminder is not in place. Next replica, Mr. Jani Prednik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u172	Thank you. Since I am the opposition, I too have recognized myself in this exercise of a Member, over whom I must say I am disappointed, I am not used to such an act. But I kind of understand that, too, because you coalition MPs are under pressure. Ms Monika Gregorčič, SMC you forget that you were also part of the government that was supposed to be late for action, and your President Zdravko Restoršek was probably not only a minister, but also a vice-president of this government, so this criticism then flies on your own. I have been quite a good part of the debate both on the Committee on Finance and today, and I have not heard them say that the measures are bad. But we talk through the fact that the measures are flawed. That's an essential difference. But no one said the measures were bad. That is why we were also on the committee, and when we confirmed this first package, we were not in favour, but we were abstaining and no one was breaking the law. Nobody's tearing it down today, either. But it does? Well, to propose certain additions, that is to say in those parts where we think the law is flawed, this is the task of the opposition. [[…]] This is also the task of coalition Members, and you do not do so. Do you really agree with all the articles? I don't think you agree. Who are you afraid of? But it is the essence of parliamentaryism that democracy develops here and that we improve the articles that are weak. Let's stop fucking around. And then you attack the opposition. I'm sorry, I can't accept this as an opposition Member for the very reason that we never broke the law in the process of adopting the first corona package or during this amendment. Let me fix it if I'm wrong, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Bandelli has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u174	Thank you, Madam President. I had to replicate it because she quoted me. But I just said exactly what the facts were. Nothing but facts. What about what I said, right? One of you tell me what's not true. I'll just give you an example. For the last time here, the debate of Secretary of State of Cantarutti is completely contradictory to what the Minister has been saying. It's completely different. About certified masks, about theft, clean places. Do you know how much it is? Ten cents costs a mask sold for 80 cents, and one million euros will be put in the pocket of some, which we have already read a lot about in the newspapers. And we didn't say that, because we're reading this thing from the Catengs here. What are you making up? If it isn't fraud and encroachment, what's more than stealing? [[…]] Don't tell me that, come on. If you've seen now with gloves, what's going on! €97 package of gloves, which costs €6. Where are we gonna go like this? Don't protect it, put it on the table and see exactly what it's about. That you've changed in a moment – because that's also right, because that's important too. You were saying, "You leftists" – where were you until yesterday? Where were you until yesterday?Oh, my God! Just please, don't talk about it, about supplies and stuff. It was you, the same ministers, the same people who had to watch the state reserves, the same and different. So don't talk. All I did was tell the facts, and I thought I was pretty good at what the truth is, that's all. And we are not against the law, I never said that we are against certain measures that have been taken here, but never, there are certain things that bother me. They bother me, they bother me like I'm Slovenian, and they bother all of Slovenia. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Gradually, Mrs. Gregorčič wants it. Don't make it a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u176	No, in fact, she asks you, Vice-President, to warn Ambassador Bandell that the judgments on what is the place, what is fraud, end up being handed down only by a legal judgment. That's it. That he can't wrap up such statements in the temple of democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u177	Madam Members, two minutes ago I gave a similar warning to Mrs Sukič. As President, I cannot comment on the content of the debate. Given that you have heard my previous warning, it was probably on your part to abuse a procedural proposal, so please refrain from such behaviour in the future. We have another replica. Mrs. Andre Zabret has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. I don't have much time, and I'll be quick. Mrs. Gregorčič, you obviously have a memory of a goldfish. Indeed, you were also members of this government and your party's vice-president was the Vice-President of the Government and the current Minister of Economy Mr. Restovalšek was also in our government [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u179	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Your time has really run out. We continue the debate if we can. Members of the SDS Party and Members of the SDS Party, please, if you are respectful of your colleagues and do not come out on the average. Her time ran out and she stopped talking. Her microphone's off. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] The mask – Madam Member, yes, put it up so there won't be any [[…]] Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, a colleague sits more than 30 metres away from you, so you don't have to be afraid. We continue with the debate, Mr Boris Doblekar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u180	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, the distinguished Minister of Finance, who brought us these first package corrections today, a nice welcome to all of you! When I listen to this debate, especially by the Left, not just the Left, but by all the opposition parties, more or less, it seems to me that, I would say, you generally do not support these measures, which the Government is preparing to help people and the economy. In most cases, you say that you support them, that you have made only certain proposals, certain additions, which, of course, is welcome and also democratic, but there are some debates that are quite receptive and have such debates that I can say that God has mercy on them. We are listening, but I will not specifically appoint which Members, what is not being said here in this house, when all Members of Parliament are fighting together with the Government and we are trying to make it better for people to be better for the economy, to fight the crisis, to beat it, to move on with our lives. What we're listening to, what we're all talking about, how we're talking about here, who's gonna get cocky, where he's gonna get puffed up -- the devil, because you've always been on government. And we were hoping — for where, for what, for where did the money go? To the banks. These were the places, the real ones, the media didn't report like that, and the targets, and so on, that they don't touch. I think, Mark, we agree. We've missed the devil quite a bit by the media research journalists on these matters. And we made out, the money went away, and nobody got hurt. You were also on the government, not long ago, because it was a few months ago, a month, two, and you had all the opportunity and opportunity to rule ahead and today you would be taking action. I am often told by a variety of people, especially those who are a lot more together, when they are behind the keyboard, behind the computer, than when they are in public or when we talk to them, that we say many times, yes, and the previous government has not done so and has done so. They say: “Yes, why do you say that? Why do you keep stressing, and that is not what the previous government has done? Now give it to you." Okay, now we're doing this, we're trying, we're fixing, but since you're throwing lots of pollen under our feet and you're reading different things, of course, it's right to tell the story back. Those who do not know the good news of history cannot continue to work, for that is clear to everyone. So, you had the option, you could press the plus or minus keys, you pressed the minus key many times, or always, whenever the Slovenian Democratic Party or the opposition proposed anything, you also had well-tortured minus keys – which you tell us is that we are pushing them now. I'm not talking about the police state. If you look a little bit at your beloved country, which some of you celebrate, a little bit lower than Slovenia, where the curfews, the people imprisoned in their homes, the houses where they can't go out and so on, and the different countries with the left socialist governments from Spain forward and so forth, where only yesterday after two months did the children first see the light of the world, they came out yesterday if you saw it, noticed it, respected socialists, and then we will continue to talk about who the police state and which government has prepared such measures as you are talking about. With regard to this movement limit, we know that we could not have done it differently than we did. According to a public opinion survey, more than 80% of the people, Slovenes and Slovenians, agree with the government's actions. That's a fact. Various international institutions, universities and so on, other governments, our ambassadors around the world and thus continue to welcome Slovenia's actions, welcome the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, welcome the people we stick to it. And we know that we are highly quoted for these measures, and we can boast a great deal. And what is essential is that we have plagued the pandemic with us to open up the economy and so on, and above all, that when normal life begins in Europe or the world, our country too, given that more tourists are among the first to achieve good results. What is essential is that we strengthen tourism and hospitality, which currently do virtually nothing. Therefore, you need to know that these results will still be important for the future. Let me put it this way, because it's been obvious how many corrections, when corrections, why corrections. Look, for example, it's been a month since the adopted law, and the corrections will be prepared for your injustices or for any other categories that have not been sufficiently taken into account so far – if that's not fast enough, then I don't know. And also retroactive things apply, so I really don't see any problem. We have injustices that are 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 70, 80 years old and not fixed. Let's ask each other over there a little bit and get a little round. The blames are not corrected, but despite the warning that it is known. Now we are correcting in such a short time, taking into account, of course, your proposals, the well-respected opposition, including your proposals, your additions, your good opinions. Look what's good isn't bad. The government has also taken your suggestions into account and this goes in, let's say hello, let's be happy, as 85% of people are happy with it. And if I just mention one wrong to go back. Once upon a time, SCT, your friend, my uncle was still missing eight, nine years of work today because SCT didn't pay him. Who fixed his guilt to have such a small pension? Let's just take a little bit of a stand and let the injustices be rectified. Mr Šircelj, Minister of Finance, is correcting these things as soon as possible, and this needs to be welcomed because it is good. Probably a lot of people, if not even the entire left-hand spectrum, are in a lot of pain that the government is doing good or too good or too good or anything. I can't imagine your discussions if the government didn't take such good measures if it didn't work so well. And this is the government, which is made up of right-centre and left- centred parties. The party that decided to take Slovenia forward is on a better path, which is what some have screwed up and left Slovenians and Slovenians stranded when your Prime Minister resigned because he was afraid of himself or anyone else. This government is doing great, and I believe that many people don't like it. It hurts a lot of people, and I can't imagine a debate if we didn't do well if we didn't make any mistakes and so on. You probably don't like the money being distributed between people, vulnerable groups and the economy. You probably don't like that. But don't worry, people like it. People live in difficult times, in times of crisis, in times of pandemic. The economy is on its knees and there is a need to help both the economy and the people. So don't worry. Help as you can with good suggestions. If the government assesses that they are welcome, it will also include them, but of course all of us. Even these varied summaries of various media horrors, because the media have slept fairly well in the sleep of a righteous one. Not long ago, however, he was awakened — and attacked with all his might. What happens in the media and when it blows up, it sells well, at least the ads are marketed – of course all people are waiting for such information, varied. Let the tiny wait first to get things through, that the authorities, that we, that the President of the Government, who received the reports and so on, will deal with everything as necessary, and then happily turn on the microphones and loudly, as far as possible, get in here. Before that, I would like to ask, as my colleague has protested before me, that you abstain from such and other judgments because we are not judges. We're not judges. And also to summarize some of the media pumps from the yellow press is, in my opinion, very much premature. Neither I nor my fellow Member before me – no one attacked anyone, a respected opposition. I never attack anyone, I respect you all, every single one of you, just like all the other people, but she was just defending herself from the attacks. Let me understand that. It's the same thing when you mentioned that dispatch or whatever it was, that reaction to the attack. Look, this is the exact same thing. You mention this in the anti-Korona law, which is even more sad, but nevertheless – the Slovenian Government has sent only a response to the attack to Europe. First they attack, then they attack, and then they have to respond somehow. And if you can attack, even if it's unjustifiable, let the attackers respond. Allow me, there's no problem. I respect, once again, all Members of Parliament and Members, let us do well with our hands in hand, help the Government, which is working immeasurably. I believe that with good work, with good measures, and with all citizens and citizens being consistently respected and respected, we will achieve the best results, both for human health and for the preservation of the economy, which will all come to our senses when it starts to function normally. Let us support these proposals proposed today by the Government on behalf of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u181	Thank you very much. My colleague, Dusan Shisko, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u182	President, thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! In the Slovenian National Party, we have tabled three amendments to those articles in which we assessed that they should be supplemented. Many more amendments have been tabled in the other articles. We supported them regardless of the investor or the client. With the amendment to Article 9, we also wanted to cover the afternoon espies, because some of them also suffered a traffic downturn and we did nothing to help them. Be aware that the afternoon esperies also pay taxes and contributions to public cash registers, but they have none of this. And there aren't enough of these espions. Even all those working solely on copyright or business contracts have not yet received any action. Unfortunately, our amendment to help them was rejected. With the amendment to Article 15, we wanted to prevent 150 euros in allowance for recipients of monetary social assistance. I mean not those who have now lost their jobs, but those who regularly receive financial social assistance. They have been exploiting this country for many years and have contributed nothing to this society. People work, work Saturdays, weeks, holidays, nights and only receive 200 Euros of supplement. In Posavia, only 850 euros are paid for hard work, and those lazy people who do nothing will get 150 euros. Now you see why it's not worth it to people. They prefer to be at home, and they're social and social. According to my information, they get a circus of 200 euros a weekend, of course cash on hand, so they don't accidentally get suspended by social services. And if we do a little math, three, four weekends of 200 euros, that's 800 euros, they get 402 euros from social services and an extra 150 euros, and we get a net amount of 352 euros. It's really funny. I really believe that people are home and they don't want a job. We agreed with the coalition parties on a reduction in the RTV contribution. The Slovenian national party has proposed a 50% reduction of the RTV subscription and you will not believe, citizen and citizen, no parliamentary party has supported this proposal. We voted in favour only of the Slovenian National Party, all other parliamentary parties voted against. I'm surprised, even the coalition was against it. That's the kind of thing I can't believe. On the Internet and social networks there are polls and even petitions that the RTV subscription is no longer paid. Among them, believe me, among them are your constituents who publish these polls and petitions. In order not only to criticize, I would like to commend you for taking into account the initiative of the Slovenian National Party, which I have highlighted in the first intervention law. Slovenian families are not just those with three or more children; they already have a large family allowance. In Slovenia we have families with one or two children. These families will also receive €30 per child at the initiative of the Slovenian National Party. I'm really glad you listened to our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Anyone else in this article? No, no, no. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Left Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the three amendments of the Group of Ambassadors, the amendment of the LMŠ Group and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. My friend Winning Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u184	Thank you very much. We have already opened the social issue, which is essential. Social needs to be looked at in a different way, not so flat-rate and pushed into the same basket. It should be known that in the social field, people who actually need it for different reasons are receiving money, about half or more of them are not members of it, but are on social grounds for speculative purposes. He's already explained this to his colleague, Shisko, and he's told us how this is happening. Most of this money actually goes to those who are speculative about such matters. They are deliberately employed, because it is planned that they do not work and that they are making all possible social contributions, both of them. And know that they know marriages very well so that they can always bring out a good result for themselves. We have an example of a person who has been receiving social support for 28 years and I am interested in what this person has contributed to society. Nothing at all. And this man will now receive a supplement — why? In order for him to be able to retire well for so many years and get a state pension for no work, for no contribution to all those who are working hard and living themselves, their families and ultimately this country. I think the law is generally fine. You could be better, but there are no ideal laws. There is one flaw – the money is shared too easily. Money does not grow in trees, as some politicians think, at least those who have been hacked into certain jobs practically since their birth. But you have to work for money and you have to make money. If we don't earn it, where are we gonna take it from, how are we gonna get it back?Oh, my God! If we look at this money, how do some people mess with it, then we come up with a question of various employees, say, in banks, and in public services, and if we look at some director of the Ljubljana Bank having more than half a million annual net salaries – please. And what will this person contribute? Nothing. If we look at it, the officials will take 30% of the salary and put it in the state basket. What about the judges? Nothing. Prosecutors? Nothing. And yet they don't work. They work here and there, the kind of judge he works for, but most of them don't. They're home, and if they're working, they're working, as they say, from home, for which they'll get special awards from the legal profession. I'd say it's the wrong world. In this marriage, however, I expected a little more restrictive interference in this sphere, not the sharing of money in length and thread. If anyone thinks that people will be grateful for the money they receive — no, they will not be grateful. They'll be making fun of each other all the time saying, "It's nothing, it's too little." If you don't believe it – when was it when they flew there in front of parliament and walked on bicycles, I don't know what? And when I went to look at what kind of people these are, I'd say they belong more in the sphere of those who are social for their own benefit than if they were people who need money. I didn't notice any of them that would fit into the context of people who needed money. They're grateful they'll get something. But they're already doing it anyway. But I saw a whole bunch of some, I'd say, NGOs that I thought were paid to jump in front of the National Assembly and chimphate long and hard. Based on the latest data that came into the media, who's all in the back, I'm not even surprised about it anymore. Perhaps I should skip a bit — a social event that will really hit, but it is also with farmers. The buying-in prices of agricultural products are falling, and trades are serving very well on this account. Here I expected the government to cut strong profits to some stores, especially since mainly these are from foreign logos – either French or German or Austrian, Slovenian trades are very small. Mercator, who used to be our store, is actually Croatian now. One more thing. In Slovenia we have excellent pharmacology experts and these experts are working, working intensively on the study of this coronary virus, and yet they do not have the money. I would expect – because Novartis, Swiss Novartis, bought Lek for cheap money from Drnovška and Dragonje and I think he paid it in one year with a profit, but this Novartis does not want to give 80 boxes of medicine to the Faculty of Pharmacy, which would be used for research from which the Slovenian state and Slovenian citizens would have much. Here I expected that some interventions would be more strict, more rigorous, but probably another law would come that would correct any such mistakes. And that's what I expect for that marriage. But this marriage, I say, is not the best, but it is good, and at this point it must be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 17 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors, the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] I'm opening applications. Applications are under way. The first one has the word of his colleague, Andrej Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Today’s debate in the National Assembly is quite boisterous, wide, and also goes back to history and says that history is a teacher of life. We are particularly aware of that in the SAB. The crisis experiences we have from the time we were threatened by the troika fill us with awareness that every crisis must be taken seriously. Here I would respond to Mr Doblekar and Mrs Ivanus. We realize what it's like to pay for a drink from previous governments, and, of course, our heads hurt, not because we would drink and eat, but because we paid for that drink. That is why we are particularly aware of the need for control and independent control over the use of funds when the crisis arises. Remember, in these circumstances, we will have to help our economy, our people, in a very short time. That is why, in the SAB Group, we have also repeatedly called on Member groups in this National Assembly to adopt our proposal to set up a specific budget line where all the expenditure spent on dealing with the coronavirus, which is now scattered across ministries, will be combined. This would ensure transparency and transparency over the funds spent. We have also proposed the establishment of a specific supervisory commission to control this. Let's just remember the recent masked affair and the delivery of medical equipment. This is additional evidence that the resources that are being used well and devoted to our citizens, our economy, need to be controlled. We all know that in a situation where money needs to be shared quickly, there is an irregularity and that not all people have well - meaning desires. That is why we certainly call on our fellow Members here to reconsider this proposal. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u187	Thank you. My colleague Jani Prednik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u188	President, thank you for your word. Article 17, on this article, which refers to those who will lose the right to a financial compensation for unemployment during the duration of this epidemic, I spoke earlier in my debate. As we know, services are currently difficult to reach, and these people are not alone to blame for not being able to go to work. There's a lot of cases. One such case is a colleague who, following the bankruptcy of Adria, had already signed contracts for certain companies to fly, but when the crisis came, when the air traffic stopped, the contracts fell into the water and are now six months on this compensation and are now running out. Such a man is essentially going to lose all his income. I have previously debated this amendment, and I have asked both the Government, Minister Shirtzl, and the right coalition why you do not support this amendment. Otherwise, no one has answered me whether you support or do not support it, but after several hours of ongoing debates and vote on the amendments, I expect that the majority right coalition will also reject this amendment and you will leave these people, who are few, behind, without any income. Earlier in the debate, I said there were several hours left before the vote. I hope that you will reconsider, as I said before, this is not a lot of money given the whole package that we accept, and if you have at least a little social sense, I hope you will support this amendment. This amendment refers to the fact that people who are running out of money within the time of the epidemic would be extended this cash refund for one month to the end of their lives, because we do not know how long the epidemic will last. It could take six months. Given that you have no intention of releasing measures, I suppose this will take quite some time, and these people will be a long time without any income. Please, please, the ruling coalition, Members of the ruling coalition, reconsider and give at least one of these amendments, at least one of the more than 200 amendments that we have tabled in this bill, to support and help these people, because that is the least we can do. In fact, not at least what we can do is our job, the task of politics is primarily to protect people. And why does politics lose credibility and reputation? Just because he doesn't take care of people in the first place. That's our job. Of course, the Social Democrats will support this amendment and hope that you will also support it in the ruling New Slovenia, SDS, SMC and Desus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague of Tadej Shuštar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u190	President, thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! As promised in the debate on the first anti-Korona law, this time we also included those vulnerable groups that were released from the first law. Many complaints were made by citizens and citizens at the expense of large families who received an additional €150 and €200 in the first marriage, depending on the number of children. Families with one or two children complained that they did not feel accepted in Slovenia because they do not get an allowance for large families. But these families are not inferior, but they belong in the family category, not in the big family category. Therefore, all families with children entitled to the parental allowance for the month of April and for the same month also benefit from the allowance for the care of the child, family assistants, foster parents, parents or other persons who receive the child allowance and are in the 1st to 6th grade. Another important thing that serves people who lose their jobs at that time is to compensate for their loss of employment of 513.64 euros. I am aware that coronaryism will have major consequences in the economy and some companies will solve their problems with the dismissal of workers for business reasons. I wish there were as few people as possible, but we certainly will not be able to avoid this altogether. It replaced only a temporary solution for a man when he lost his job. However, I also have one question for the finance minister who was presented to me by the local communities: is there any chance that the financial burden of the mortuary service and the contribution to the health insurance of the unemployed would be taken over by the state and thus burdened by the municipality? Although the average that the previous coalition was unable to do will rise for the municipalities, this cost represents a very large financial burden for the congregations. This transfer of costs is also supported by the Court of Auditors, so please listen to the local communities. I am pleased that the anti-Korona Act also takes into account my proposal, which I highlighted in the coordination in the previous adoption of the law – that the comparison between February and March 2020 is no longer taken into account as a reference period for determining the reduction of the income of self-employed persons, but rather a comparison of revenues between 2019 and 2020 is used. This seems particularly important to me because of seasonal workers, innkeepers, tourist workers, beekeepers, taxi drivers and others, who have a major part of transport linked to the spring and summer months. The month of February is a dead month, a month with the lowest share of income, and it would be unfair to compare the month of March with the month, which, together with January, has been the least profitable. If the self-employed person did not operate throughout the year in order to use the comparison for the same month of the previous year, the average for 2019 and 2020 and for February 2020, depending on the start of his business, shall apply. The same applies to employers who did not operate throughout the year. Of course, I support the law because it is good and is made for people to get through the crisis that we all want to be as short as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Anyone else at Article 17? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 18 and the two amendments of the SD Group of Members and the amendments of the LMŠ Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 20 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 50 and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in 15 minutes in the framework of the vote. I hereby interrupt this point and the 35th extraordinary session, which will be resumed by the vote at 5 p.m. and 40 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 17.23 and resumed at 17.40.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u192	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. I inform you that we will vote in accordance with the following order: paragraphs 2, 1, 3 and 12. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Interim Measures concerning Judicial, Administrative and Other Public Legal Matters for the Control of the Dissemination of Infectious Disease SARS-COV-2 (COVID-19) in the context of an urgent procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I'm informing you that I have not been informed that the bill would be inconsistent. What explanation? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 86 Members and Members present, 86 votes against none. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. That concludes this point. We continue with the end of item 1 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the provision of additional liquidity to the economy to mitigate the consequences of the COVID-19 epidemic in the context of the urgent procedure. We continue to decide on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 28 April 2020, published on the e-club. First, we move on to the decision on the amendment of the LMŠ Group Ambassador to Article 5 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendments under numbers 2 and 3 will become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 5 under Article 2. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 3 becomes irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u193	Thank you. We've been given two substantive sets of amendments to this law, and allow me to introduce both of you under this amendment. It's very simple. With the first set of amendments, we propose to increase the credit limit that can be obtained by a state-guaranteed undertaking from 10% of annual turnover to 25% of annual turnover and from a one-time-only last year's labour cost to a two-fold last year's labour cost. Why are we suggesting this? Because these are the ceilings laid down by the European Commission, because such criteria are also laid down in Germany, Austria and I think that France as well, and because there is no reason for them to be more papal than the pope. In fact, if we want to keep jobs, if we want this money to actually come to businesses, and if we do not want to repeat the 2009 Guarantee Scheme story, when it remains practically unused, it does not make sense to set ourselves too strict criteria, and we propose that these thresholds be raised accordingly. In this way we will provide more money for businesses, in this way more jobs will be maintained and in this way we will reduce the depth of the coming recession. The second set of amendments we are proposing, however, speaks of the fact that the bad loans created by the default of these State guarantees would not go to the SID Bank, as provided for by law, because we are opposed to creating a new bad bank, some new DUTB, to accumulate bad loans there and thus divide losses, but we propose that if an undertaking is no longer able to repay the loan for which the bank received the State guarantee, the capital share of the State in that bank should be changed to an appropriate proportion. In this way, losses will not be split, and in this way the country will be able to make this money – out of the 2 billion of the Ministry of Finance's accounts, to cost about half a billion euros, not only will it be donated, but it will be at least partially recoverable. Indeed, money is likely, given the situation in the European Union, where it shows that there will be no helicopter money, there will be no Eurobonds, no serious resolution mechanism either, we have to return and it would make sense to continue all the aids so that they are as returnable as possible. In short, we want to fix the law in a way that will be better for businesses and, on the other hand, better for the country or for everyone who pays taxes. These are the contents of our amendments, of course we will support them in the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u194	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 5 under Article 3. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 45. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 9 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 3 becomes irrelevant. If this amendment is not adopted, it shall become an irrelevant amendment to this Article under number 2 and an amendment to Articles 15 and 17. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the Left Group to Article 9 of Article 1 has not been adopted, it has therefore become a meaningless amendment to Article 9 of the same proposal and the amendment to Articles 15 and 17. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 9(3). We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill, which is the decision on the bill. I am informing you that I have not been informed that the bill would be uncoordinated, so we are moving to a vote. Explanation on behalf of the Left Group, Comrade Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u195	Thank you. Our amendments were once again rejected, leaving the law as it is. As I said before, we are concerned that the 2009 story will repeat itself, which has remained virtually untapped, that we are more papal than the pope and that we will, in fact, miss out on such undecided measures when the European Union allows for a more decisive response to the crisis. However, this climate can turn very quickly in Europe, as we have seen 10 years ago, and it would make sense now to take advantage of the manoeuvre that they have, which this law does not do. Second. There are things in this law that have nothing to do with solving the crisis. If I put two together. One way is to appoint SID supervisors of the bank, where the main word will now be Minister of Finance. The second is the way to appoint directors of public funds. Neither has any direct connection with the resolution of coronaryism, and it is not appropriate for the Government to include this in this law. These are the reasons why we cannot support this marriage. However, I think that in the debates and in the hearing we have made enough constructive criticism that we can expect the Government to take at least some of this into account in the third kroner package, in particular in terms of longer-term measures, where only ensuring liquidity will not be sufficient, but it will be necessary to take care of companies that are now unable to operate and have problems not only with liquidity, but also with fixed costs, with falling obligations to suppliers and so on, on the other hand, with the economy as a whole which will have to be restructured. We will have to give more emphasis to self-sustainment, self-sustainment, self-sustainment with medical equipment and material. We have seen that we have a country that, in fact, does not have the ability to produce elastic goods, and we have literally fought with others for who will steal masks somewhere, as Joc Pečečnik said. I think that this should teach us a lesson in changing the way we manage things. Finally, as far as financial work is concerned, it will be necessary to start thinking about restoring the financial sovereignty of this country. These are the things that this marriage could save, and they don't. However, I think that the extensions we have presented in this reading are good for the third corona package, where we expect at least a part of this to come true.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u196	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 86 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. That concludes this point. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Intervention Measures for the Control of the COVID-19 Epidemic and the Mitigation of its Consequences for Citizens and the Economy in the framework of the urgent procedure. We continue to decide on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 28 April 2020, published on the e-club. First, we move on to the decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 3 under number 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this Article shall become irrelevant under number 2. Mr Siter, on behalf of the left-wing group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u197	Thank you very much. We are particularly critical of this law in the work that does not refer to the group of abandoned citizens and citizens, the weakest who will feel the consequences of this epidemic. Despite the fact that we have warned these groups in the Left Group that these groups have warned all Members and Members themselves, they remain abandoned. One of these groups, for which we also propose a solution with amendments to this Article, is employees on hold at the time of the epidemic. This law is quite loose for them on two levels. First of all, it is full, to determine which company is credible or which can enforce aid for overcoming the consequences of the epidemic. On the other hand, their problem is uncertainty, since they do not know for themselves whether, after waiting for them to return to work, they will even be able to get jobs. One scenario, which is very important, is Gorenje, which has surprised us in the last days with thousands of workers and workers' cancellations. They are forecasting so much again by the end of the year, and no region, no company and no employees can really afford such a scenario. Our amendment to Article 3 to the employers who are recipients of the aid under this heading requires that they protect their workers and do not forgive them during the post-crisis period, thus providing some basic social security both to them and to the region in which they operate. In fact, it will serve its purpose to help people, not politicians, not managers, not banks, but directly workers and workers who create the economy in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u198	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 46. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Levica Group to Article 3(2). We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 46. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 3(3). We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 7 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this Article shall become irrelevant under number 2. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 7(2). We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 86 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 46. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Levica Group of Ambassadors to Article 15 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, amendments under numbers 2, 3, 4 and 5 will become irrelevant. On behalf of the Left Group, colleague Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u199	Thank you for your word, chairman. We have tabled three amendments to this article, in which we try to correct fundamental injustice, into the law. While the Government devotes large sums of unconditional aid to businesses and capital, it lays down conditions for people in distress. The first such thing is that all aid goes to capital for the duration of the entire epidemic, while people receive the solidarity supplement once and only once. It's like they've only been affected by the epidemic for one month, not that they've been hurt all the time. The second thing we do is to extend the range of beneficiaries of the solidarity allowance from socially disadvantaged recipients of the DSP and recipients of the protective allowance to the unemployed, including students abroad, including students. We also open up the possibility for the recipients of the solidarity allowance to apply for monetary social assistance, an option which the Government has effectively denied to them, when the benefits from solidarity allowances are included in the price of applications for exceptional financial social assistance. We also delete the provision that a poor person, a recipient of financial social assistance living in the same household with a pensioner who will receive the solidarity allowance, is drawn from the beneficiaries of the solidarity allowance on their own. We simply can't wave our hand and say that att's solidarity allowance will survive the household. This is unfair and discriminatory. In addition, we also introduce income-discoupling benefits for all students. We know that it is those students who come from socially endangered environments who work in tourism, work in the restaurant, in short, in sectors that are now completely shut down, and these people have nothing to survive with. 150 euros is not enough and will not help them. Here we apply the provision to cover these students' income from student work. In addition, let us also take care of the group of nicknames that the Government has pushed aside, namely, the so-called fees, the people who are living with the copyright contracts, the business contracts and so on, we introduce the same protection and the same provision as the self-employed ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u200	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 46. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 15 under Article 2. If this amendment is adopted, amendments under numbers 3, 4 and 5 will become irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 87 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 15 under Article 3. If this amendment is adopted, the amendments under numbers 4 and 5 will become irrelevant. Voice explanation, Comrade Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u201	Thank you very much. In my own name. On 13 March, the government announced the pandemic, and the current government issued a quarantine order in which people who do not have permission cannot work and are without any income. In this amendment, the List of Marjan Šarca warned — in addition to these students, as Levica had explained before — about the group of first job seekers who had lost all their income. Since the government has not decided on a basic income to help or capture all citizens, from the baby to the centenary, we are now looking for a number of groups that have been lost and the government has not helped them. In doing so, we would like to point out that we are voting for these groups today and that we are taking them in. The Employment Office notes that as of 31 March, there are 78 thousand job seekers who have been registered in the office, as many as 20 thousand 500 without any income, and this number is rising dramatically. These groups need help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u202	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 15 under Article 4. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 5 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 15 under Article 5. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 46. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Levica Group of Ambassadors to Article 17 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendments under number 2 and 3 shall become irrelevant. My colleague Kordesh on behalf of the Left Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u203	Thank you for your word, chairman. The death of the economy during the epidemic will cause many people to lose their jobs. The first example is already on the radar, a terrible example of Gorenje, where work will lose at least a thousand people. The government of these lost jobs for those who do not meet the conditions for receiving unemployment compensation will not solve them in such a way as to give them the same compensation as it already does, but introduces a lower remuneration. Why such discrimination, why it's treated like this, even though people don't blame themselves for losing their job, I don't know. I don't know, but in Levica we're trying to fix this in a way that sets the standard amount of unemployment compensation, as already in law, for everyone at €530. This is our first step to Article 17. The second measure we are proposing is that the unemployment compensation also applies to foreign workers. These people work here, they pay contributions here, and a lot of them have been robbed because they work in the kitchen, they work in some bakery, in the service sector, and so on. And they're obviously good enough to work here, to produce goods, to provide us with services, they're good enough to pay into our cash registers, and when they get into trouble, they're obviously not good enough to pay them the unemployment compensation they paid for. It's guilt, unfair guilt. The restrictions on these foreigners, who are registered in the law, are deleted in Levica. Thus, foreign workers who worked here must also be entitled to unemployment benefits. However, the third measure, which we are entering in Article 17, is that those who will have a period of compensation for unemployment in the epidemic will be extended to the end of the epidemic. If the economy is already shutting down, if we are already losing jobs, of course, we cannot simply condemn those who are currently receiving unemployment benefits to lose that compensation on a day, two months, to lose their income. The period of their unemployment compensation should be extended beyond the end of the epidemic. In this way, of course, we also release the system of social transfers, which will soon be under a major blow in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u204	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 17 under Article 2. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 17 under Article 3. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 46. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group of Members to Article 18 under Article 1. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group of Members to Article 18 under Article 2. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 3 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 18. 3. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 46. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 20. Colleague Violeta Tomić on behalf of the parliamentary group, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. The current Article provides that an employer, without the consent of an employee, a union or even a council of workers, may unilaterally order a public servant up to 80 hours of additional work per month. This means that for several months without adequate compensation or protection of workers' rights to weekly or daily rest. The human resources poverty of certain key sectors, such as health and social protection, must not be tackled by overloading already overburdened workers who have often been burned and exhausted during their regular working hours prior to the outbreak. The solution is to hire more workers. The sectors concerned must be staffed and materially trained to operate in a way that is safe both for their suppliers and for their operators. Therefore, in line with the call from the representative trade union centres, we have proposed certain restrictions and safeguards in determining overtime for public servants at the time of the epidemic. The derogations from the general restrictions proposed by the Government are too large and pose risks to the safety and health of workers and consequently to the users of the services they work with. The amendment in the third paragraph therefore proposes a slightly lower value or hours for which, without adequate rest, it is possible to extend the working time of a public official according to the provision in the first paragraph. The Government has proposed that the total number of hours over full-time work at annual level may exceed 480, which is in fact more than 100 %, as is the upper limit under the ZDR. We therefore propose that the joint work over full-time work of a public servant should not exceed the annual time limit laid down by the law governing working relations. This is 230 hours a year and nothing more. In addition, an additional 50 % of the basic salary is proposed for full-time work that exceeds the full-time labour limits of the Labour Relations Act for these workers. These amendments are also proposed on the basis of a call from trade unions, which was made at the time of the examination of the applicable law, but it is obvious that the Government does not, even then, take into account the reasoned comments made by workers' representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u206	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 47. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 50. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill, which is the decision on the bill. I am not informed that the proposal would be inconsistent. What explanation for the voice? [[Yeah.]] Mr Luka Moon on behalf of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u207	Thank you. In this law the Government has taken into account some of the comments that we have made, and has corrected the situation in certain areas. For example, in self-employed people, there are no longer those criteria that we referred to as the entry lottery into basic income. The foster parents got something, the invalids got something, and so on. But for many others, things remain the same as they were. This already says that if we look at the figures, only 36 million will be added to the 3 billion distributed aid from the first package. On the same as they were, however, despite the criticisms and calls of students who have lost their jobs in catering, tourism, renting apartments and so on. The government did not come to their aid, except they will receive this 150 euro charity for the entire epidemic period. Then there are tenants of business premises, which are again often in the most affected sectors, and they only get help from the state if they rent business premises from the municipalities or from the state, but there is no news for those who rent from the private sector. Here the minister himself mentioned an Austrian case where rents freeze in the event of an epidemic. In particular, this should apply in the event of a cessation of business. Then we have private sector workers who will receive a 200-euro flat-rate prize, no matter how exposed they are, even if they work in a private DSO, this prize will not be any greater. Then they are unemployed, who can be compensated for unemployment, they cannot obtain new services, but they are not entitled to financial social assistance and can be deprived of everything. Then there are groups that we have previously highlighted, such as foreign workers in our country, who could also be shown solidarity by the country in these times of crisis, and so on. At the same time, we must say that some of the promises made by government parties themselves – for example, NSI has published these posters on social networks, where it has promised to subsidise children's families' school meals during closed schools – has increased their children's allowance by the amount of subsidies. This is not included in the law, despite the amendment. In short, this law is a disappointment. The things you have warned yourself about have not been taken into account, but even less what we have called for in the opposition. Unfortunately, we can't support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u208	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LMŠ Group, colleague Andrei Zabret.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u209	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Although the novel under consideration today contains some of the solutions that we have proposed in the List of Marjan Šarc, unfortunately too many things remain open. As a result, in the letter of Marjana Šarc, we have again prepared supplements to improve the law, which unfortunately the coalition rejected. In addition, the novel contains certain articles which permanently interfere with other laws and are therefore not part of this amendment. Their provisions are also substantively questionable. Last but not least, perhaps even the most important – let us not forget that the first antichrist law is currently in the Constitutional Court. In the LMŠ, we, together with most opposition parties, submitted a request for a constitutional assessment. We believe that there is a need for a constitutional assessment of two articles setting out measures which are time-consuming in the intervention law. In addition, we consider that the measures are also excessive, which is why the issue of constitutionality, of the contention of the law is raised, and as I have already mentioned in the debate, we have zero tolerance in the LMŠ for any disproportionate interference with the rights of individuals protected by the Constitution. Because of everything mentioned in the LMŠ, we cannot support this amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? [[Yeah.]] My colleague Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u211	Thank you, Madam President. In the SAB Group, we have tried to implement the so-called special parliamentary supervision since the first law started, even this time and finally in this last law on economic liquidity. From the outset, it is recalled that the situation of the epidemic and the large amount of money that will be distributed between the economy and citizens for the first time in history is so large that it requires special parliamentary supervision. Such supervision, the establishment of a special working body, also allows the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Unfortunately, our proposals were not already adopted in the first law, so we have now upgraded them with a proposal for a specific budget fund. The Special Budget Fund would allow all expenditure related to the Coronavirus epidemic to be managed in a specific budget fund. Now there will be only special items in individual ministries, which of course makes the review difficult. Our proposal would allow Members and the Government to have at any time an overview of exactly how much money has been spent and for what. In such a simple examination, we could avoid the affairs we are witnessing now. All involved, the Government and, in a certain way, Members, of course, in accordance with the parliamentary supervision that they would choose, could look at how much money and what it is being spent on and carry out opposite controls to prevent abuses. The various political responsibilities that we will enforce later will not be able to repair the damage done. All we can do is look for the culprit and put him on the cross — what some know best. So we regret that you were not prepared to listen to this well-intentioned proposal, which is still in place under such circumstances. In certain parts, the law is good, not to say, it brings many good things, but what we have proposed would bring one additional quality in terms of transparency in the use of public money, which unfortunately is not. We will abstain from this law in the SAB Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han on behalf of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u213	Thank you very much, President. Now we are almost two months after the state is standing in some way, and the economy is having problems. As a result, because the economy is standing and has problems, jobs are closed or jobs are standing and it is clear that the State had to intervene with such and other measures. We're talking about 6 billion. With today's pressure on these two laws, we will somehow burden the next generation for 6 billion. There is nothing wrong with having these 6 billion actually work in some way, and we will be able to come out of this crisis relatively less damaged. I'm afraid we won't keep a lot of jobs with these two laws, so I'll tell you why. In these two laws we are not talking about maintaining jobs in the catering and tourism segment, which not only did you get in these two months, I will say, a portion, but you will get a portion, a pardon, next year. We are not talking about these two laws, but we have made amendments about tenants, about saving entrepreneurs who have their own businesses, who have shops, they have their own restaurants, and they pay expensive rents in the centres. We can't solve that either. Okay, we'll probably solve this in the next law. When we started with one group, which we gave her in some way social resources, we let a lot of groups out of our minds in the opposition. And it's normal for them to feel in some way, I'll say they don't participate in this marriage. Because of all the above, we cannot support this law. However, we hold ourselves as an opposition who does not break the laws that work, cooperate, help, help with what the opposition can do — with amendments, with warning. But that one amendment couldn't be adopted in all those days, and I don't think it's right. Especially the signal's not right. I believe that we may be able to correct this task in the next legislation when it is necessary for it to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? I can see there's more of you. I'll open the list. The application shall be made. First of all, my friend Franz Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u215	Thank you so much for saying that. A colleague is always left-handed, not a sold-out soul like some. I am observing this story last time, and this session, Members and Members of the Coalition, you obviously have a salary to click on your cell phones, not to listen to what the opposition would say to you. This legislation is somehow going in the wrong direction, mixing a bit of socialism, mixing a little reckless economy in the way you showed it on Tarcha on Thursday, and mixing how you will set up your own – it is important that they are obedient, even if they are incompetent people. This is not the way it is done in quiet times, let alone in crisis. That's why I can't support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u216	Thank you. The word is from a colleague named Natasha Sukić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u217	Thank you for your word, chairman. It's a big disappointment. Disappointment because the coalition had completely crossed the opposition, completely ignored 200 proposals to improve this law, took into account only one single one. It's a complete disappointment that she's crossed out a lot of citizens and citizens. You have never justified why some vulnerable groups are entitled only to a single solidarity supplement and others to the end of the epidemic. Worse still, as in the first crown package, you planted two cowardly eggs — paragraphs 42 and 49. In the first kroner, this was Article 103. Here, in Article 42, you are greatly reducing environmental standards, at a time of climate change, at a time when it is not said that this virus is not already due to climate change, when it does not matter what world we leave to our explorers. However, the government of Janez Janša, which does not recognise climate change, is, of course, reducing environmental standards and thus excluding NGOs from control procedures. Article 49 permanently interferes with the Law on Local Self-Government and strongly attacks democratic practices and potentially excludes the control of an article to be deleted from the article to be placed under constitutional review. I will vote against, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u218	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Violet Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u219	I too will express my great disappointment, especially at how the government imagines cooperation and governance. I think all citizens see that. In particular, I will highlight Article 42, where you have completely overrun a letter from an independent group of experts in the field of biology, environmental and nature protection and their thinkers of scientists, doctors, professors who have asked this article to withdraw, as it interferes with the protection of the environment and nature and presents a risk of irreparable environmental and nature impacts. Let me remind you that we are on Sunday, 26. 4. already exceeded the capabilities of our planet Earth. 26. 4. it is less than half a year, despite the fact that the economy and industry are standing. That information should be your alarm, and apparently it's not. Under the cover of emergency measures to overcome the epidemic, you limit the competence of NGOs in the field of environment and space and allow human rights violations. This adoption violates not only the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but also the Aarhus Convention, the European Directive, in short a whole bunch of laws and we will obviously have to give a constitutional opinion. Not to mention New Slovenia in article 15, where Facebook boasts that it will provide subsidised school meals to families of children during closed schools, the children’s allowance will be increased by the amount of the subsidy. When we proposed this amendment, the respected coalition party Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats who have a full mouth of children and goes for children, you pressed a button against! You pushed the minus. Unheard of and disgraceful! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u220	Thank you. How many of you are interested in your own name? My friend Winning Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The government or coalition has listened to a number of our proposals and implemented them within its legal framework. It is true that we have tabled a single amendment, which is to reduce the contribution to RTV, but which was not accepted, which surprised us a little. After all, the coalition, at least part of the coalition, lobbyed very intensively to simply delete this contribution. But after all, we will support this law. The fact is, we have to do something, but not just growl and look everywhere for something to be done. I think we could cut off a lot of money that went out too much. I am pleased, however, that various NGOs, those who do not need a country and who are blocking the country in development do not provide the means by which it will harm itself. Such funds are about half a billion euros a year. That's not much. The planet won't die. The planet is being revitalized and the planet is being restored. Everything is a cycle that the earth has in its history, and this cycle will not be interrupted, be assured. There's something. People have to live, and if five fishes of half of Slovenia do not have electricity, I think it is wiser to cut off such a non-governmental organization from funding by the state and people to ensure normal life. Once again, we'll back it up.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u222	Thank you very much. We are voting on the law as a whole. There are 85 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 7. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. That concludes this point. We continue with the end of the 12th item of the agenda, this is with the Mandate- voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for Appointment to the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court of Slovenia. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of mags. Matej Čujovič is a judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Matthew Chujovich. Explanation of the vote in her own name, colleague Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u223	Thank you, Chairman. I won't be long at this point, but I'll say I can handle it. Not because I would have anything against the candidate to Judge Mateo Čujovič, but because I have already repeatedly, lastly also on the Mandate-Election Commission, alerted Members to an interesting phenomenon that I have seen in recent years. Indeed, in the courts, as you know, as in some other professions and in some other areas, women are strongly dominated. There are more of them, more of them applying to places and so on. It's interesting, though, at least since I've been paying attention, the Supreme Court has been greatly promoted by men. This does not mean, I repeat, that the candidate we are talking about today is not an exceptional candidate with outstanding legal and judicial skills, but I find it difficult to believe that in a large number of women operating in our court, women do not have such high-quality judicial and legal capacity. That is why I will abstain this time, and I will also pay attention in advance to whether the Supreme Court and the Council of Justice, in fact, will continue this tradition to have a man's advantage in advancing to the highest courts. Our client is for full equality, for equality of women in all areas of life, even in the achievement of the so-called glass ceiling. I am interested to see how this has been exactly as I said for some time now — even in the judiciary, it is easier for men to come to the highest positions, even though there are many fewer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u224	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the proposals for election to judicial office in the District Court of Justice at the District Court in Ljubljana. The Council of Justice presented to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Mark Justin and Bernard Tynsk in judicial capacity at the district judges' court in the District Court in Ljubljana. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. First of all, we move to a decision on a proposal for a decision that elects Marko Justin as a judge of the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that elects Bernard Tynšek as judge of the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposals for election in the judicial function of the District Court in the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly proposals for the election of Vasilija Lacković and Barbara Holc as a judge in the District Court of Justice at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. First of all, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision that elects Vasili Lacković as judge of the District Court of Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that elects Barbara Holc as judge of the District Court in the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing seven members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council – on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. My friend Brana Golubovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let's start with a short theory – deliberately, even though I'm not blind to any help. RTV Slovenia is a public service of special cultural and national interest. I stress, public – because some still see RTV as state television, government television, some would have client TV. I'll tell you something else. What does the law say? As the founder of a public institution, the State is obliged to ensure institutional autonomy and editorial independence, in short, non-interference. And how do you understand the public service in a coalition controlled by SDS? Simple as something that you can win and then control or subjugate. This was the feeling that it remained after the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, at which it was clear from the debate that the parties to the coalition shared their membership in the RTV programme world, which is certainly strange, given that representatives of viewers and listeners, not representatives of political parties, should sit in the programme world. The exact same momentum, this is to conquer and subjugate, shows the coalition also in the supervisory council. Before long, you've solved three supervisors, named your own, and two are waiting for relief in the National Assembly. In our view, this is not in accordance with Article 26, paragraph 7, of the RTV Act. Perhaps the goal of all these human resources exchanges is to suspend the institution slowly, even after the Tarč broadcast, which we saw on Thursday, and some other reports. I don't know. Perhaps the aim is to weaken the impact of public television on the private television Nova24TV. There is certainly a number of conflicts of interest in the Chamber today, as it co-owners this private media house and sets up its own people on the program or control board of other televisions. This, in my opinion and in my opinion, is the wrong world. If I return to today's vote. It is bizarre that members of the Programme Council are determined by the policy to decide on this in the National Assembly. Politics should not have a word, even the least decisive. But we know who politicized both organs years ago — John Janša’s first government. Why? That's more than a rhetorical question. It is clear why — because of the influence. It must be acknowledged that in all subsequent years this political influence, this possibility has been exploited by every single ruling coalition, which is wrong, and this is very wrong. A mature policy should first change the law in the work that provides for the composition of both the Programme and the Supervisory Board and takes over the powers of appointment. It's self-involved. This would only show that we actually support the independence of the public service and its autonomy and that we understand what public service is in essence. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the List of Marjan Šarc, we are still prepared to support amendments to the law that will remove policy from decision-making on members of the Programme and Supervisory Council, but we are not prepared to support today by a coalition of proposed members of the RTV Programme Council, who should represent all the viewers and listeners, not the interests of individual political parties. At the end of the day, let me risk the forecast. It is no longer the day when the coalition will try to replace the director of Radiotelevision Slovenia through the programme council, and it is no longer the day that the same coalition will equally actively engage the Slovenian Press Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u226	Thank you. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a colleague of mags. Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u227	President, thank you so much for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! RTV Slovenia has been the target of serious policy critics since the start of the Janša government, mainly by the SDS and their media, funded by Hungary. We're talking about New24TV, of course. At the turn of this government, President Janez Janša named RTV Slovenia as one of the main culprits, in his opinion, as a late response to the coronavirus. At the same time, he accused him of falsely reporting on the government, and he was already referring to the change of management of this public institution. Exchange by SDS, of course. Not to mention the numerous insulting tweets of the President of the Government and other senior government officials who have literally threatened employees, especially journalists on RTV Slovenia. This, of course, does not affect the President of a democratic state. Recently, the president of the non-parliamentary SLS party, who uses boots and equips himself with a tool to clean the manure, as the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia apparently calls himself. Social Democrats are proposing to clean up their yard first, especially after Thursday's disclosures of their unacceptable behaviour and pressure on the Department of Trade Reserves in purchasing protective masks, and I think he will have a lot of work to do. It is clear, therefore, that RTV Slovenia, especially after Thursday's Trenja broadcast, which revealed many of the oddities of the ruling suit and some influential individuals of the political right, will receive further pressure, threats and discredits. Let us not forget, the attacks on all media in the country, which are not at the discretion of the SDS party, on their part have been greatly strengthened by the appointment of this government. The already mentioned pressures on RTV Slovenia and the sarcastic response of the President of the Government to interfere with the editorial policy of the Dnevnik officer, as well as the harmful and malicious official position of the Republic of Slovenia, which through the official dispatch of Minister Logar in the international public mud various media, journalists, individuals and our country in general, are just a few well-planned moves of this authority to create a new media image in Slovenia. Such media images, which will obey the current authorities, will not doubt the correctness of their decisions and will not reveal the details of non-profit transactions, either in the procurement of medical equipment or in other harmful practices. The fact that the Ministry of Culture, including the preparation of media legislation and the functioning of the media in general, under the auspices of the SDS, is even more worrying in the light of this development. Today's appointment of seven members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, which will be apparently confirmed by the government majority in the National Assembly, unfortunately represents only one piece of the entire episode that we have been accompanying in the last month and a half. The government has recently appointed three new representatives to the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Council, one of which has been named in contravention of the RTV Act, since it is a non-professional public official of the SDS species, of course. This wasn't the first time. During the second Janša government, we already had the same case from the same party and the same violation of the law, the RTV Slovenia Act, which, as is publicly known, was prepared by SDS Member Branko Grims. So it's a conscious violation of your own rules, your own laws. However, as there is clearly a great deal of haste with the replacements in the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Council, the SDS Group has proposed the early release of two other members of the Supervisory Board, who are apparently on the SDS list for replacement. Four years ago, when the National Assembly decided on eight new members of the RTV Programme Council, MPs and SDS members very carefully dissected the names of candidates and candidates and they were biased by candidates on other political parties' lists in previous elections. It is therefore right to say that today we have at least four candidates and candidates of seven who are members or sympathizers of the SDS, also repeatedly made public by [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u228	Time's up. The word is given by the Left Party, a colleague of Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u229	Thank you for your word. As my predecessors have already said, RTV is a public institution, it is not a state, even less governmental or party, and its purpose, as set out in the RTV Act, is to ensure that citizens and citizens are informed. It is a fact that you – and here I am looking at a rather broad range of old clients – have managed to politicize this institution. Of course, a key role in this was played by the party currently leading the government, with the famous Grims Act of a decade and a half ago, which looks fine on paper. There the representatives of political parties from the National Assembly should have five of the 29 members of the Programme Council. In fact, members of political parties from the National Assembly have a hand of over 21 out of 29 members [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u230	I ask a little silence to make it easier for my colleague to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u231	And this time it's no different. This time we have here a list of seven candidates, you chose them from list 60, where scientists, media critics were. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u232	Can I ask you again a little quiet there, fellows in the corner?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u233	In short, you chose a list of seven candidates on list 60, where there were scientists, media critics, former journalists, but none of them came through. For all seven, we can tell exactly whose party book they have in their pocket, from the quota of which the customers are coming, and they are called entirely political. Among them are people who have publicly called for the non-payment of RTV subscriptions, including people who are directly disposed against this institution. The problem is that this political power is now taking over this institution. The political current led by a man who himself calls for the non-payment of a subscription and who yesterday – I am speaking of course about Prime Minister Janez Janša – has shown again on Twitter how he understands the independence of the media, how he understands news and reports. In fact, when RTV reported the protests that took place in front of parliament yesterday — this was in the evening reports — it noted, together with other prominent members of this party on Twitter, that RTV actively promoted these protests by including a contribution to the protest in the evening reports. It is said that it does not distinguish between news and agitation, between reporting and propaganda. Well, it's all propaganda for him. That's why I'm saying this, especially to the representatives of coalition parties, the problem is that if you leave RTV to such a mental world, because it's not going to be a public institution, it's not going to be an independent institution, it's going to be an institution that deals mainly with the good looks of a party. Of course, they're disrupting things like we saw on Thursday at the Target. And if I express myself with the words of a great friend of this Prime Minister of the State of Borut Pahor – he regretted the disclosure of masks because they cast a bad light on the otherwise excellent work of the Government. Thus, we must remain silent about such things so that the government or its work will not be underestimated. I think this is a completely wrong understanding of what the media is supposed to do. The media are the fourth branch of government and are here to oversee us all in this room, criticise our work and that the public has enough information to make informed decisions about who is trustworthy and who is not. If you are to politicize this and submit it, because you simply see the black and white as propaganda of one or the other party that we have not set up, someone who is not ours has set it up against us who are not ours, we need to put it down – with such logic we will not come too far. But this logic gets flesh and blood here at this vote. Today, with seven members of the Programme Council, in the short term, when we continue to deal with the members of the Supervisory Board on the Mandate-Election Commission, and probably also with the members of the Supervisory Board. There, the current coalition has seven of the nine members called politics, then there are only two other members who are called employees, but I would also like the last two current opposition members to throw nine of the 11 members of the Supervisory Board, among the employees you will also find some loyalist and will all be yours. I think it's necessary to say bob and beans here, and like all my colleagues, like everyone who's spoken before me, of course I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u234	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. First of all, my colleague Violeta Tomić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u235	Thank you for your word. Politics takes all the country, budget, media like war prey, this winning party, the biggest. And that's the problem. Now we've seen what's bothering them. It bothers them that Targets would reveal their odd business with our money, and that they were busy doing business with their mothers, their daughters, their friends, well, if we could at least deliver the goods with dignity, but despite the huge overpayments we saw that we didn't get what we needed. [[…]] Then the SDS Member who will return to the House of Representatives, Franz Breznik – what did he say? “I did so much good, and the media destroyed me.” The media are guilty of being drunk, the media are guilty, maybe even Murgle, that he was driving around with a car and visiting the king of cocobanan.In short, that's how you imagine democracy – we're silent about everything you don't like. I know RTV from when Janša's first government was gone, and I must say that it was a house of expertise, culture and good relations. Then we have never been able to win this marriage in any coalition. For this law of the first government of Janshea began to destroy RTV. He has put politics in, and since then relations are no longer good, the profession is no longer important, and also in this supervisory and programming world we see that people who have been journalists who are scientists cannot get in, but people who are connected to the ruling party can. We also received quite a warning about your member of the opera singer who openly called for the non-payment of the RTV subscription. And such a man who actually hates public RTV would like to be part of the supervisory council. Worse still, people have not only political but then personal interest in performing in such an institution. This really can't go. Thus, the interest expressed by the SDS party is by no means of public interest. However, they are aware of the values of the media and, of course, they have launched on everything that is still independent. Because for the SDS client, all they're not is on the left. Even if it's not even close to the left. The medium that's not theirs is the left medium, and then the left one is doing them total wrongs. We also organize demonstrations, even though we were nowhere to be found. In short, all that disagrees with you is the left. That's how you imagine democracy, and that's actually what worries me. I can't support these seven of your candidates. There were 60 of them, which, in my opinion and in my opinion, were much more appropriate, were representatives of scientific institutions, media critics, former journalists, people who were not politically defined. We had meetings on media owned by SDS, connected you have a whole bunch of local portals – they know who their owners are, even though they are hidden. Now small radios and local stations don't pay the network. Here Nova24 can be directly powered, we get 8,000 a month. And that's all right. In short, all that is public, our public money, our public interest, our public institutions will be well-adopted because you think you have the right to do so. And it's not like that, and I think people will still express their dissatisfaction with this, and I would rather say that you stick to your media because you have a lot of them, but Orban will always move some money if they don't throw it out of the EPP, but, I don't know, while public television has to stay independent and deal with the program as it always is. [[…]] She had the most quality children's program, she had a disabled program, she made theatre plays, she did a lot of educational, signing shows, and today we're fighting whether it's left or right. Inadmissible and a great deal of damage to the institution as we have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u236	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague named Natasha Sukić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u237	Thank you for your word, chairman. What can I say? Roshade, Roshade, Roshade. Roshadam in the composition of the Supervisory and Programme Board of Public Radio Television Slovenia does not see the end. These are probably also the intervention measures of this government in the fight against the epidemic, because it is obviously in such a hurry. When the age of Janez Janša comes, it will put pressure on the media. How do I know? Why do I say that? Because we see cynical tweets, shameless tweets, threatening your prime minister himself, it is the Prime Minister who threatens the media through twitters; because we see discarded dispatches which are not again and which naturally embarrass us abroad. But these dispatches are not intended for as much abroad as they are intended for psychological pressure, a special war against the media in our country, a pressure to subdue journalists and editors and force them to obey and self-censorship. This, of course, is seen also through haste, how to replace members of the RTV Slovenia Programme and Supervisory Board. In the case of the Supervisory Board, we actually see this whole story very clearly: when Janez Janša's term comes, article 26 of the RTV Act is interpreted freely by Janez Janša. The government of 11 supervisors in the supervisory council would have only eight of its own, one would have mercifully left to the opposition, and two of the employees would probably have theirs. So it is no longer a mandate when Janez Janša takes over the government. Even though there is no rule on how many positions or opposition Members and Members are supposed to sit by Parliament in the Supervisory Council, and there is no rule that, because the government has replaced itself in the middle of the mandate, the composition of the Supervisory Board would be replaced, it is said that the four-year mandate of the public broadcasters would be reduced. So that the government of Janez Janša or Janez Janša, in fact, does not understand the autonomy of the media or the autonomy of Parliament, as we see, is the real core of democracy. The government of Janez Janša is breaking, it is not interested in the constitution, nor in the laws. Of course I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u238	Thank you. There's a colleague of mag's who's got the word. Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u239	Thank you very much, again, for your word, Madam President. The fact is, apparently, this government did declare a terrible war on journalism. Janez Janša and other SDS members simply do not understand what media or journalistic autonomy mean and what free media mean. First, the government went to those media that it actually has an impact on, and one of these key is the public agency RTV. As I said before, at the time of his term of office, the Prime Minister of the Government began with distasteful tweets and threats to the journalists of the public house RTV. In addition, there has already been a change in the management of the Siol portal, where the government has also had indirect influence. I am sure that it is only a matter of time before the Slovenian Press Agency will also receive new leadership. This interference with journalism and freedom is absolutely unacceptable and unacceptable. If I touch further on the change of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council. It is unacceptable that in the programming world, as I said before, which allowed the so-called Grimes Act to be called political, party, we can say, personnel. And this is currently under the command of SDS and John Janez Janša. The proposal, which went through the Human Resources Commission, is highly political, at least four candidates for the new RTV Slovenia Program Council are members or steep supporters of the SDS party. Let me mention the singer Alenko Gotar, who has run for your party in recent elections, as a party to the SDS, to mention the famous Janša unionist Mr. Kmetič, to mention the great opponent of public education and the eternal supporter of the character and work of Janez Janša Ivan Štuhec, and he could also mention. Having had a very wide range of quality candidates for the RTV Slovenia Programme Council. But no, of course, you have decided for those who are politically loyal and who will succeed in suppressing all criticism at the expense of the ruling party. You are also changing the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board. We know why, it is perfectly clear – you want to have full authority over public television. You'll be replacing the director in no time, that's for sure. Perhaps you will appoint someone who is faithful to you, perhaps the Man, perhaps we do not know which one of the Members. And that's it. That's what you want. But believe me, colleagues and colleagues, you're not going to make it, and the near end is coming. Of course, the social democrats of these candidates for the RTV Slovenia Programme Council will not be supported. We strongly condemn that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u240	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing seven members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council – on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. In doing so, I inform you that, under Article 17, paragraph 9, of the Radio Television Act, Slovenia will adopt a decision if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. Explanation of voice. Does anyone have one on behalf of the House of Representatives? No, no, no. In your own name? [[Yeah.]] Lydia Divac Mirnik and then my colleague Trček.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u241	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues, colleagues! I will vote against it myself, as our group leader has already said. I also did not support these candidates at the MVK, who are no representatives of the audience and the people, so that we will not paint here. The time limits of the parties to the current coalition are simply extended. Some are just a little more, and some are a little less, obviously depending on how they managed to win these votes within the coalition. I'll tell you again what that means. That means d-i-k-t-a-t-u-r-a. One more time for those of you who don't understand. That means d-i-k-t-a-t-u-r-a. Do you know how interesting it was to watch the MVK this session? We had 62 candidates on our list, and apparently they've been aligned in the coalition around eight. But look at the fraction, someone didn't stick to what they agreed. Hop Cefiesel! Do you know what happened after the meeting? Five minutes later, a colleague of Krivec, the leader of the SDS Group, said: “At once, in my office!” My colleagues from SMC and Desus actually felt very sorry for me, because you have to be really, really sorry to say, for your own sake, if you have to go straight to your feet in five minutes. Let's just drop it. The fact that the head of the government, Mr Janez Janša, when tweeting, always adds a keynote fakenews to RTV, and probably also tells his story. So, my dears, RTV clearly represents the spoils of SDS and that's all the science you're selling here today. I'm not gonna support this on my own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u242	Thank you. My friend Runk.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u243	Thank you for your word. I personally believe that, like the judges of the regular courts, both worlds of RTV should not be blessed in the National Assembly. Another time. When I listened to this, one of the above mentioned gentlemen said to me in Minsk: "Ah, you know, because we are not a customer, we are a private company of one person." It's SDS, you know. It's out of the question to discuss. And here you have the same basket held by three parties, which I hope will soon be in the history dump. Actually, there's something I'm happy for. You know, even if Janša were to conquer the BBC, Fox News would never be popular with the believers. We'll survive this war, see you in the next. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u244	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 36. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 36.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Investigation Commission on the identification of abuses and non-economic behaviour in the DUTB. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. On the basis of the Decision on the establishment of the number of seats of members of the Working Groups of the National Assembly and on the establishment of the parliamentary groups belonging to them as Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Working Bodies of the National Assembly, which was adopted by the College of the President of the National Assembly in the course of the 63rd meeting on 22 April 2020, the Group of Presidents of the National Assembly communicated proposals to the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Staff of the National Assembly. In view of the proposals received, a proposal for a Decision of 28 is prepared. 4. 2020, which you received and published on the e-club. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Comrade Miha Kordish, explanation on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u245	Thank you for your word, chairman. Budget impact, RTV impact, coup against the National Choir. This is the technology of Janez Janša's reign in the last month and a half. Like the government's voting machine, it drives through the opposition amendments and proposals to the Crown Act to help vulnerable groups of citizens and citizens, it also works with working bodies in the National Assembly. Let's remember. A month ago, a coalition brought ideas to the table to form the working bodies of the National Assembly beyond the power ratios within the National Assembly itself. What kind of coalition group gets a Member more, where this Member should not have one, but that the Coalition Quartet subordinates its working bodies and the leadership of these working bodies over the number they should have, and similar stories. In opposition parties led by Levica, we put ourselves on the sidelines, we put ourselves on the back legs, and we demanded the business and proper division of the working bodies of the National Assembly, because we will not allow the executive branch of power to completely disable parliamentary control, control, which is written in its definition, that the counterweight of appetites is in the ministries and in the government. We did it. At least to some extent. However, it is still at stake with the Commission, where the deep country versions are being tackled. The Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission – the opposition is still not having a clear majority. In view of what the government of Janez Janša is doing, we can imagine why she would rather go to a related trade with the Victory of Jelinčič than to a democratic agreement with all parliamentary parties. That is why we will vote against this in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u246	Thank you very much. My friend, Zmigo Jelinčič, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Kordish, what was interesting was that you said you were standing on your last legs, which means you're walking four, and apparently you're thinking that.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Comrade Duck, on behalf of the Member of Parliament or on his own? My own. Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? [[No, no, ……]] My friend Runk in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u249	Thank you. Beyond what is said, in serious parliaments, each parliamentary group will make sure that the Committees are chaired by people who, as my children say, are top-shining within these parliamentary groups. Even so, certain people never go anywhere other than to be so-called backbenchers. In fact, I am happy that I will no longer chair a committee, because I will have more time for substantive cooperation on this serious committee, but there are just too many people in this cut who are simply not good enough Members or Members of Parliament to be able to chair, although we are basically all equal. It is indeed insane that in a parliamentary body with 90 Members and Members of Parliament, committees over 20 Members and Members of Parliament have almost one-quarter in committee. There is no such thing, no parliament that has little brain has it. I've never been a jerk before when I was just a kid, except for being a jerk when I was 50 years old. That's why I can't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u250	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members present, 78 votes against 7. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. On the basis of the Decision on the establishment of the number of seats of members of the Working Groups of the National Assembly and on the establishment of parliamentary groups belonging to them as Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Working Bodies of the National Assembly, adopted by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 63rd meeting on 22 April 2020, on proposals for the President, Vice-President and members of that Commission. In view of the proposals received, a proposal for a decision has been prepared which you have received and is published on the e-club. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Members of the Left, colleague Primož Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u251	Thank you very much. The Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services is the working body of the National Assembly, which oversees the most important elements of the country, the work and activities of the security and intelligence services. Its work is secret, traditional and commercial, and it is considered that the majority of the seats are held by Members and members of the opposition. In this way, the Commission provides transparent work and is a security prisoner for the coalition, which, while in the midst of a possible call for full power of the Khan with the intelligence and security apparatus, would take a step across the border of democracy into full control of intelligence services and thus over citizens. In normal circumstances and in all the references of the National Assembly to date, this practice was no problem for anyone. Until today. The undermining of the frontier of democracy, the excessive control and deepening of repression are on the agenda of the current government of Janez Janša. It is no wonder, therefore, that coordination was carried out in the National Assembly for the cuts in labour bodies, including Knovs under the auspices of the President of the National Assembly. Vote roller. Contrary to basic democratic standards, the coalition offered the opposition the distribution of cities and presidential posts in the working bodies of the National Assembly, which do not correspond to the numerical relations in the National Assembly. Nor did the coalition offer any state-owned committee to the opposition, since it initially wanted to maintain control of the Intelligence and Security Services Commission through its agreement with the Helinčič Victory and with the exclusion of the Left. They also wanted to do the same with the opposition Public Finance Supervisory Commission. The coalition roller was also used for creative accounting. According to the table drawn up in the coalition, the SDS had six presidential seats. Despite giving up one presidential seat for Desus' sake, she still retained six presidential seats. According to coalition mathematics, six minus one is still six. The left and the parties in the middle together have come up with proposals that have eliminated these anomalies and injustices in a way that no one would get more or less than mathematically belongs to him. The President of the National Assembly, Igor Zorčič, has therefore arbitrarily cut off coordination without agreement and put us ahead of the ultimatum – so make suggestions. The Left will always defend democratic principles. The undemocratic grips we witnessed there will not be accepted. We have fallen into a membership that will not serve anything, except for the consolidation of the full authority of the Janša Government, and especially in the important working body of the National Assembly, such as the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, following painful arrangements with a host of coalition business frauds and the universal playing of democratic standards. Members and members of Knovs are indeed Members and Members from all parliamentary groups, but the sum is critical. Four members of the official coalition, four members of the opposition and one of the National Party. The latter, although officially the opposition, uses the coalition to buy shamelessly, has helped to appoint Janez Janša as prime minister and to emplace the government, supports government proposals, supports them and together denies climate change. The party in calls for impatient and exclusionary policies, the police state, the granting of unnecessary powers to repressive authorities, with a frank hatred for dispossessed groups, threats and the beating of human rights, is more coalition than coalitions. The vote of the Slovenian National Party in the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services is the vote of Janez Janša. For the first time in the history of Slovenian Parliamentarianism, the Commission will be voted by the government coalition. After the government of Janez Janša has taken full power over the budget, the National Assembly, when it has also ruled out citizens from the round of decision-making by banning the referendum initiative, it will now, finally, control its work in the secret part of the country. This kind of cut, which in its work will not be able to follow the principles of democratic decision-making or the basic purpose of controlling the opposition's part of the coalition, will be opposed to this beating of the most basic standards of democracy in the Levica Group in a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u252	Comrade Siter, I do not intend to go into detail and open up debates about the emergence of this proposal, which we will now decide on. The fact is that they had the opportunity to participate in all the parliamentary groups, that there were proposals for additional presidential posts in the parliamentary groups, and the fact is that this cut, as it was prepared, was prepared by the services of the National Assembly, by no party and by any third factor that would correspond to that description, as you have just given it. So the fact is that the proposal is prepared as it was then determined in college and that we will vote on it today. Procedurally, colleague Hefferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u253	Dear President! I believe that you know the rules of procedure, and I believe that you know a provision that is regulated both in the rules of procedure and in accordance with parliamentary practice, so that the views presented by the parliamentary groups are not commented on. And if you did, you'd be expected to stick to it, even if you're president or mainly because you're president of the National Assembly. This mistake today is not the first mistake, we have previously heard Mr Jelinčič, who, in a 30-second intervention, while commenting on Mr Kordiš in his explanation of vote, has not even said how he will vote on what he will vote on, and you have not warned him. That was the first mistake today. The second mistake today is that you dared to comment on the position of the Left Group at a point where the views of the SMC Group, which you represent, did not report. I ask you as Vice-President of the National Assembly, who, however, knows the rules of procedure, to follow these rules, even in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u254	I'll cut it because it doesn't make any sense. Comrade Jelinčič, you are not reported for discussion. No, you don't have a replica, but you can explain your voice. We'll get to that. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. In doing so, I inform you that, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, a decision will be taken if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SNS Parliamentary Group, Comrade Victory Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u255	Thank you very much. In his replica, the president of the National Assembly had already explained a lot of what I had already thought. I would add only that, in essence, the Slovenian National Party does not share with the SDS. If you're doing this in Levica and you're seeing some clients, it's your business, we're normal in our client.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u256	I suggest that if you don't, I'll give you about 15 minutes of break time to calm down. [[…]] Explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament? On my own. Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? He's a fellow criminal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u257	Thank you for your word. I didn't mean to come forward because I expected that, in view of settled parliamentary practice, there would be no problem with working bodies and not with presidential and vice-presidential posts, which was never a problem. I think the President has already clearly explained who is preparing the basic cut, and given the parliamentary practice that has been in place all the time, it is also a priority division within the coalition parliamentary groups. And those cities that don't stay perfect split up the opposition. This has always been the case, even in the previous term. And in the previous term, no one has bothered a colleague of the Victory of Jelinčič, who was also in the opposition, and also in the coalition, when it happened to someone, and it was no blackmail of the opposition in the case of the composition of the working bodies. It is always a matter of working with the President, where even those desires of individual Members' groups are aligned, and it is not true that the coalition's wish to prevail within Knovs or KNJF has been made as it has always been. In these committees or commissions, the majority of the opposition has always been present, and this has also been the case. Why you initially did not want to take over or agree to share your jobs is your problem, but the process was the same as in all the previous compositions of the National Assembly, when the coalition first chooses the places it wants to preside over and in the next stage of the opposition. It is not a particular act or a special procedure that we have conducted, but it is the same process and far from being a coup against the National Assembly, but it is a normal coordination of interests within the National Assembly and it has been done. And also within the coalition a great deal of patience that you have reached your seats on these committees and that the National Assembly can continue to function normally. That is why I will support this proposal, and we will also support this proposal in our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u258	On behalf of the parliamentary group, colleague Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u259	In the SAB Group, we will support this proposal for the appointment of a Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission because it is prepared in accordance with the law and the rules of procedure. Notwithstanding being an opposition party, we believe that the most important condition is that the proposal is drawn up in accordance with the law and the rules of procedure. It is. In this commission, according to the law and the rules of procedure, the opposition has a majority, five votes, and a coalition of four, and the presidents and vice-presidents are members of the opposition. That's exactly what the law requires. Transposition and emphasis, in particular discrediting one of the parties, in which case the SNS by the Left party, seems inappropriate to me. Like the victory of Jelinčič and SNS, he has voted with the left coalition, and many times against it, he is now voting several times with the right coalition, and when, I hope, also against. Formally, he's a member of the opposition. Those who are now trying to discredit this commission and it, particularly the Left, would remind you that the right governments and this would not be at all if the Left would not stop supporting the left government. When Levica stopped supporting the left government, however, it was the first step towards gaining the right government. And now we have it. And if they stick to the rules and act in accordance with the law and procedure, for the first time in the National Assembly, I see these things getting in trouble. For the first time in the National Assembly, I've been here for a while.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Gradually, Comrade Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u261	Thank you. Mr President, I would urge you to intervene in such eccentric cases by abuse of the voice-explanation institute as we have now witnessed to it. Of course, if we can hear examples of eccentric lies as we have witnessed in the last two cases [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u262	My friend Kordish, this is also an eclectic breach of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u263	My procedural proposal is, President, to intervene when such things start to happen, as they have now begun to happen in the last intervention or two. That's your function. This is your function, if you have been brave enough to take over, now be responsible enough to carry it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u264	Colleagues, like I said, I can take one break. Mate Matjaž, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u265	I would suggest that after almost eight hours, we calm down a little. I am aware and I am listening and from the left and from the right and so on, let us give this committee, which is one of the most important commissions, the opportunity to start working. [[…]] I believe that the President and I have a good basis for the President to start his work, and then we will assess for ourselves whether he can perform the most important function of quality – controlling the police and so on. So I propose that we vote and that we do not begin to take offense at this point because it makes no sense. And please, President, give your authority – either do or stop the session, donkeys for 45 minutes because it doesn't take you anywhere else.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-28-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u266	I agree, Comrade Matjaž, only colleague Natasha Sukič has been raising her hand for a long time. Don't you? Okay. Then we vote. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 7. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the responsibility of holders of public functions on the programme of child cardiology and on the procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 86 votes against none. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President, the members and alternates of the Commission of Inquiry on the determination of alleged money laundering in NKBM d.d., the alleged illegal financing of the SDS political party and the alleged illegal financing of the SDS electoral campaign for early parliamentary elections in the 2018 National Assembly. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 85 votes against 1. [[The vote was 85.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Investigation Commission on the identification of abuses and non-economic behaviour in the DUTB. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. What kind of desire for a debate? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 87 votes against none. [[The vote was 87.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the detection of abuses in the case of Franc Kangler and others. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. What kind of desire for a debate? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against 6. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 35th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Stay healthy. (The sitting was suspended on 28 November). APRIL 2020 AT 19.36.)
