ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 18th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Ambassador Maša Kociper from 13 a.m. and by Ambassador Aljaž Kovačič until 12 noon. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 8. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE INSTITUTIONAL DISEASE LAW, ORIGINAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by 5,000 voters and voters. With regard to this bill, the Health Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the President of the Committee, Anja Bah Žibert, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u2	The Health Committee is at its 8th regular session, 4. 6. 2020, as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Infectious Diseases, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by a group of 5,000 voters and voters. No amendments were tabled in the course of business. The additional explanation was presented by Gregor Kos and Jure Pogačnik on behalf of the applicant. They stressed that the aim of the bill was to abolish the compulsory vaccination system and reintroduce voluntary vaccination. This would reduce the risk of vaccination and also eliminate the social conflict caused by compulsory vaccination. They argued that the profession was not uniform in this regard and that the medical procedure where the opinion was different should not be prescribed as mandatory. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was presented by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Dr Tina Bregant. She pointed out that the Government and the Ministry of Health were completely rejecting the proposals made by the applicants and were not in favour of the bill. The Ministry considers that vaccination is scientifically proven and the most appropriate preventive measure to prevent communicable diseases and has a positive impact on the whole community and thus on public health. We also provide collective protection for individuals who, for various health reasons, must not be vaccinated or who have not developed immunity to vaccination. There is solid evidence of the benefits of vaccination based on scientific studies. Vaccination is advised by credible professional international institutions in the field of public health and prevention and control of communicable diseases. The government therefore rejects any indication of the unanimity of the medical profession, the systematic concealment of ingredients in vaccines and the violation of medical ethics. The Committee also took note of the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service presented by Špela Cat Gustin. She pointed out that the text of the bill in relation to the wording of the articles was not uniform and that it did not follow the established legislative techniques in the legislative novelties. Various approaches have also been used to place proposed interventions in the applicable articles of the Illuminated Diseases Act, which reduces the clarity of the law proposal and allows for a different interpretation of the instructions to be put in place and complement the existing regulation. The specific comments referred to paragraphs 2, 6, 8 and 11 of the draft law. The opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons was presented by the State Council of Mags. Peter Pozun. He stressed that the Commission does not support the bill. The Commission was also informed of the Government's opinion and supported in the debate the position of the Ministry of Health that, according to all historical facts, in relation to communicable diseases, scientific knowledge and statistics, vaccination is clearly the best way to protect against communicable diseases. The position on the bill was also expressed by the invited representatives of the National Institute for Public Health, the Public Agency for Medicines and Medical Devices and the Medical Chambers of Slovenia. The debate pointed out that the majority of the members and members of the committee did not support the bill. Given that the draft law has been tabled by a group of 5,000 voters and voters, the proposal calls for respectful treatment. In particular, the question of how to reduce fear and distrust of vaccination was raised and whether we also fully manage the risks associated with vaccination. In view of the above, the Committee adopted, by 16 votes in favour and none against, that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Infectious Diseases was not appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the word "magic." Gregor Kos, representative of the 5 thousand electorates and electorates, as proposer of the bill for presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I stand before you as the proposer of the proposal for a law on communicable diseases, carried out in accordance with the legal only possible envisaged procedure of the people's initiative, with which we have gathered, in the half of the deadline, a substantial number of over 5,000 legally required regulations. The Human Initiative is thus the only direct legal option left of something, which should be the constitutional fact that there is a people in Slovenia, which we already know is not. I will address you in two substantive points and one constructive proposal. The first point is the negative experience of Slovenians and Slovenians, which we have with compulsory vaccination. Following a recent public opinion survey with a representative sample of 701 respondents, 13.5% responded by some form of post-vaccination reaction. The proportion of serious injuries with vaccines in the register required by the law will not be found because there are no official injuries, because they cannot be entered by pediatricians and doctors and cannot be defined as vaccine injuries. At the same time, Members and Members, or the liability for injury with vaccines, do not wish to be passed on to the producers of vaccines, so that this responsibility is borne by taxpayers. Real cases of vaccine injuries and the impact of the latter on children and families are published on the special site. Two so-called confessions have already been published. Everything in the manuscript is clear that it's not forgeries or abuse. I suggest you read at least one confession that won't take you long, my time here today is, unfortunately, limited. The second point refers to independent scientific studies and non-reality allowed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which at its meeting adopted a political conclusion that the section on vaccines is uniform. It's not. The latest scientific research, Hooker, Miller, Sage Open Medicine, on May 27, 2020, shows that unvaccinated children are healthier than vaccinated children. And another fact I must point out is that the unvaccinated do not pose any greater risk to the transmission of viruses or diseases than the vaccinated, to the contrary. That's a fact. The profession is not uniform, honourable Members and Members, regardless of which authorities you will make a different statement on several occasions. As it is not true that vaccines are supposed to protect us from mass deaths due to infectious diseases, since it is an irrefutable historical fact that mass deaths have ended before vaccines were introduced, or a carefully planned preoccupation myth, which cannot possibly be more than 50% in Slovenia, since more than 820,000 citizens were born before vaccination was introduced. This is the power of arguments, not an argument of power. Allow me to conclude with an initial starting point on human initiative, democracy and the power of the people. At least, as a constructive and active citizen involved in the human initiative process, here today I expect you to set up a special commission to review and analyse in detail the issue of safety studies of vaccines, vaccine injury registers, components of vaccines, documented parental statements of vaccine injuries and asymptomatic illness in vaccinations within six months, because I believe that you are aware of the importance of the human initiative and, in accordance with the constitutional provision, that the government of the people in Slovenia, I expect you to trust the Commission's leadership to propose a bill and to appoint all relevant stakeholders that you, representatives of the health authorities and of the people's initiative equally. If the representatives proposed by your side and by the health authorities of the regular weekly meetings of the Commission fail to attend due to, say, official employment or possibly informal obstructions, the meetings and conclusions will nevertheless be adopted and public. I propose that the basis for the adoption of further legal corrections to the actual benefit of the health of citizens and citizens, democracy and inviolable human rights, and in particular the inviolability of the human body, as we know from the Nuremberg Code and the Helsinki Declaration, should not be carried out medical procedures with blackmail, which is a criminal offence or even a criminal charge, which takes place in Slovenia, by discrimination or exclusion from society, by coercion, which is a physical withdrawal of children, or even by planned manipulation, which is the concealment of negative effects and the failure to explain duty, because all of this is unethical. We need the proposed commission because the public media space for the exchange of arguments in Slovenia is closed. It was shut down by the vaccine industry, I hope it didn't shut down the temple of democracy and the soul of the temple of democracy because hope dies last. Members and Members, voluntary vaccination is an example of Austria, Switzerland, Norway and other countries. The signed at least 5,000 Slovenes and Slovenians want to be part of this appearance, not the periphery of the vaccine lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr. Tina Bregant, State Secretary, Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u6	Respected and respected! A group of 5,000 voters and voters submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Infectious Diseases. With this proposal, they want to abolish compulsory vaccination and introduce voluntary vaccination. For reasons of permanent inadmissibility of vaccination or suspension of vaccination, chronic diseases or medical conditions suggest an altered immune response, as well as the presence of family history in parents and other ancestors, are added as a reason. In addition, the articles governing the suspension procedure for medical reasons and this task shall be deleted. In addition, they regulate the rights to compensation after vaccination in the event of serious and lasting consequences of vaccination. In addition to this one-off compensation to be settled by the State, the right to a monthly pension is added at the cost of treatment or therapy, assistance and other damage due to deterioration of health. They also extend the deadline for lodging claims for compensation from six to ten years. These changes justify the opinion of official institutes, such as the World Health Organisation, on vaccination, to be based on studies of vaccine producers or those studies financed by vaccine producers, although in their view there are other studies showing that vaccination is ineffective and dangerous. Therefore, the applicants point out that the opinion of the section on vaccination is different and that it must not be prescribed as compulsory. Among the reasons for amending the law are that the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicines and Medical Devices hides safety and efficacy studies and that we have witnessed systematic concealment of ingredients in vaccines. In the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it does not support the proposal of the law and we also propose that the National Assembly does not accept it. Indicative indications of medical inequity may be rejected. We also reject the systematic concealment of ingredients in vaccines, the violation of medical ethics and the duty of clarification, as well as the absence of a review of the consequences of vaccination. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes partial interventions to the Infectious Diseases Act and we will also prepare or prepare a comprehensive amendment to the law due to the findings of this covid-19 epidemic. In the legal service, we also checked the possibility that the proposal would be rejected at the same time as a new government proposal, which we are preparing in this already-called working group, and the opinion of the legal service is that this is not possible. We propose from this point of view that the National Assembly does not accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first word is "Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia". My friend Branko Simonovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to all present! The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia defines in article 88 an important institute in our national system, and this is a legal initiative. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Infectious Diseases, which we are dealing with, took into account the human legislative initiative put 5,000 voters and voters into the procedure. From this point of view, the Desus Group has considered it particularly carefully. The aim of the proposal for a new law is to abolish the compulsory vaccination system and re-regulation of voluntary vaccination by arguing that it is a medical procedure that is so different from the profession’s opinion that it must not be prescribed as mandatory. The government's negative opinion in the proposal of the novel was presented by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Dr Tina Bregant, who explained why it opposes partial interventions to the Infectious Diseases Act and why the Government rejects allegations of non-conformity of the medical profession, violation of medical ethics and concealment of components in vaccines. The opinion that collective protection also protects all individuals who, due to such and other medical indications, must not be vaccinated and that vaccination is scientifically proven to be the safest and effective preventive measure to prevent communicable diseases, which is advised by all official public health institutes, is also agreed in our mission group. If there is, then the vaccination must certainly take into account scientific knowledge and a broader social dimension. Over the past months, we have witnessed the power of the new virus and the actual fragility of health and the social consequences it has brought, and we will put an end to them for a while. At the same time, we must not allow ourselves as a society to be further reemerged as a result of the reduction in the rate of transplantation, which could make the situation worse. Each time we adopt such important regulations, it is so crucial that we look at the wider community as a whole and trust the health and scientific professions. The Desus Group will thus conclude that the proposal for a new law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u9	Thank you. The next word is Victory Jelinčič Tribal for the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u10	Good afternoon! I'm walking a little bit more of a robot, because everything hurt yesterday, and I'm in pain today. Yeah. The proposal that the law is not suitable for consideration makes perfect sense. 5,000 people have shown that they do not understand and believe the medical profession, which is bad and sad. Disinformation spreading in this area as to how harmful vaccination is is is harmful. The fact is, it's not true that unvaccinated children are healthier. That's not true. But it is true that those who were not vaccinated began spreading measles again. And the measles of old age, if the child has not been vaccinated, are the final thing, and in short, you die because of this disease. It also happens to mumps, which in itself also causes sterility in men. And now, if we are not vaccinated against it, what will we do? After it's too late for everyone, when it's all over, it's too late. It was said earlier when Mr Kos explained that 800,000 citizens were born before they were vaccinated. That's not true. I can tell you, I'm one of those people who was born before vaccination was supposed to take place. We had vaccinations at school, everything was done, everything was recorded. We've had TB vaccinations, so-called wireless. And interestingly, where these vaccinations were carried out, this stroke of the Coronavirus was significantly smaller. Portugal and Slovenia got better out of this, while in Italy and Spain, where compulsory vaccination is largely non-existent, the case was catastrophic. That's why I think it's pointless to spread such information and talk about the unanimity of the profession. Unfortunately, some quasi healers are included in this profession, then various new age gentlemen who meditate something, and scientists and similar things. That's not a profession. But you're the loudest. And these are the ones who break the medical profession and act against it. I don't know what my parents would say if, say, a child who wasn't vaccinated was sick of a certain disease. For the first time, who would pay for the treatment because it was the parents who decided not to vaccinate the child and what responsibility it would be on their shoulders. In short, in Slovenia we have about 5,000 divers who spit about half a metre from the ground and do not understand what is true and simply look with their left hand at the dangers of certain diseases. They are sick, even those we know and against whom we are being vaccinated are more aggressive than they once were. The fact is that certain viruses mutate that certain strains change to create new ones, and if we don't inoculate our young population, the worst can happen to us in the future. I think it is right that the law has not received support, and we must not support such laws in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, colleague Joseph Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Nice greetings to all present! Everyone has the right to protection against communicable diseases and the duty to protect their health and the health of others against these diseases. There is no doubt that vaccination has contributed significantly to an increase in the level of public health and has greatly contributed to the decline in the number of infected deaths. Let me remind you that every year around the world, 1.5 million children still die from diseases that could be prevented by vaccination. The proposer of the request to amend the Law on Infectious Diseases with the support of several signatories in his explanation states that the system of compulsory vaccination should be abolished and that a system of voluntary vaccination should be introduced, which is less harmful according to their assessment. They propose a change of jurisdiction in deciding on the eligibility of the compensation claim for damage resulting from vaccination. The inability to study the safety and efficacy of vaccines is also problematic. In the end, it is also stated that the health content of harmful ingredients in vaccines has not been known for many years. The fact is that pediatricians are increasingly confronted with the disease of children who are not vaccinated. They caution that children who are not vaccinated face severe health consequences that could otherwise be prevented from vaccination in the event of infections with infectious diseases. According to the profession, vaccination is scientifically proven and the most appropriate preventive measure to prevent communicable diseases and has a positive effect on the whole community and thus on public health. Vaccination is advised by credible public health professional institutions and organisations for the prevention and control of communicable diseases, such as the World Health Organization, the European Centre for the Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases, the American Center for Disease Control and others. We should leave the decision on the compulsory vaccination measure to the profession. Vaccination is one of the greatest successes in medical history and is also the greatest hope for medicine in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a colleague of mags. Diane Jedhan. Excuse me, first of all the Marjan Sarca Group, colleague Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thought you'd forgotten about me. Almost impossible, but anyway. Five thousand signatures and more, of course, represent a serious degree of democracy that we have enshrined in the Constitution, of course this should be borne in mind that the legislator opens a debate on a particular issue. And this also happened in the case of the Infectious Diseases Act, where the initiators suggest that compulsory vaccinations become optional. Especially in the spirit and concern after what we say is very much loved, the protection of human rights, the inviolability of life, the right to refuse treatment and so on. However, the proposal still does not imply the obligation of the legislator himself to accept all this as the greatest medicine and the most beautiful and best initiative, which has some extremely good positive effects. In fact, the applicants forget and also propose the diametric opposite of exactly what the Constitutional Court once ruled. However, it decided that it had rejected many of the following findings. The exercise of the right to reject health is of course not an absolute human right, but is a right which, in individual cases, can also be restricted by law under Article 51 of the Constitution. In the case of vaccination, this is more than clear when this right is limited. Why is that really so important? Then we'll leave for a simple reason. Parents say that only parents can decide about their children. That's right. And in most cases in social life, of course, that's true. In the event of vaccination, however, there can be no protection of the nation, the country, the population and the spread of communicable diseases. And in the case of – I give a very simple practical example – the excuse is if all the children in school are vaccinated, only mine, not how dangerous this child can be for these children in school. They forget, however, that there may be three other children in this same school who cannot or must not be vaccinated for health reasons. Appropriately, these three children may remain in great danger because of a single parent’s decision, not because of a child who is unvaccinated. That is why it is the duty of the State, especially the legislator of the National Assembly, to protect children's rights and care for their health under Article 51 of the Constitution. Why am I talking so simple? Because the proposer says there is no study to propose and say the opposite to what they propose. All of this has been said several times. That's why it's not ours to prove, it's ours to protect. And one more thing that's very important. They tell us that we are making political decisions. The Government and the National Assembly always take political decisions, supported by professional decisions, opinions, proposals, research and the like. And that is this fundamental difference, of course it is not easy to deceive. We are glad that the Law on Infectious Diseases is coming into the National Assembly. Of course, I am not happy to hear that after 30 years we do not know how the laws of the National Assembly are being dealt with and that we are asking about this legal service. I like and we are pleased that the proposal that I have withdrawn before a bad month and a half has been proposed by the SMC in the procedure of the National Assembly is a legislative procedure that is almost identical. We will also be happy to take part in this debate, which also means, of course, that the discussions on vaccination are not over, we will talk about it, and I hope that we will talk about the system upgrade, not the suspension of compulsory vaccination. Of course, I also advocate that certain vaccinations, which are not compulsory and are only for a certain sex, become accessible to all children. I am talking about HPV and similar, which, of course, also exist on the basis of certain opinions. Unfortunately, we will not support this proposal, but we believe that the debate will continue and that we will all light up and pour pure wine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u15	Thank you. The word has magic. Dejan Židan for the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u16	Dear President, dear Members, distinguished Secretary of State, a nice greeting to the others! The debate we have today on compulsory or optional vaccination is not uniform. If we look at the history of medicine or modern medicine, I believe we can agree that vaccination or vaccination has brought the greatest progress in medicine. They wonder whether there are hundreds of millions of people who have been saved from death and even more people who have suffered from vaccination without serious consequences, perhaps for the rest of their lives. I read the history of some diseases when we were preparing for the Health Committee meeting, even today, to reawaken the memory. I know those who so strongly oppose vaccination, I suggest you read the history of medicine and the history of infectious diseases. I also read official information that is available in Slovenia. This data speaks of millions that we save every year because we are being vaccinated at global level. Therefore, I say in advance that the Group of Social Democrats will support the conclusion that the law is not appropriate to be adopted. However, – here is – what we are concerned about, but in some ways it is almost a defeat that the proponents of this law – the proposer is also among us, I welcome – have experienced. Hard words against them are totally unjustifiable. When I listen to the proponents, I read their records, also on the internet, I feel and see mainly fear, but also a great lack of trust in institutions, professional institutions and representatives of professional institutions in Slovenia, as well as elsewhere in the world, to other professional institutions. And what I very much miss is a very clear opinion, a position that confronts. We have experts, distinguished experts, professors, medical universities, the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, in various public and private health institutions and people are quiet. People do not go in the direction of talking to those who are afraid, perhaps at times even justified by fear of vaccination. They are simply closed in their safe buildings, developing their expertise, writing an article. By the way, I was surprised to see today’s section of vaccination on the website of the National Institute for Public Health and see that the latest article from 2017 is possible. Where are these people to respond to the fear of people who have doubts that they are giving them arguments and that they are helping them to clarify something together? I want this debate to be held in the future, too, because not all doubts are really resolved. In fact, it is still true that too much is done by financing those who benefit from it is the pharmaceutical industry. There are too few independent studies, not enough of those directly funded by governments or the European Union, which would make it easier to make decisions. Of course, this area needs to be addressed very carefully. That is why, even today, I say that the proposal of Members to tighten the legislation of Members of the coalition is simply not correct. I listened to the Secretary of State, who made it very clear that they wanted the whole area to be re-organized, not in individual parts, if I understood correctly. And it seems unfair to me that members of the coalition are going in a different direction than the Government, which is going in my direction, at least as far as thinking is concerned. Therefore, we want and expect the following: the doubts expressed clearly by representatives of the civil initiative, which has collected very many signatures, must be clarified. I expect that we will not clear them up to the politicians, because these are professional questions for which we have professional institutions, but for which they have to be responsive all the time. If the question is raised, it must also be answered. And only when we have the answers to all the questions is it right to move forward together. This is not about left or right policies, opposition or coalitions, this is about how to protect our population, and what is more important about how to protect those who are most vulnerable and cannot be protected by vaccination for health reasons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u17	Thank you. The next one has the word mag. Branislav Rajić for the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone! The bill, the main solution of which is the introduction of voluntary vaccination, was put into the legislative process by the signatures of 5,000 voters and voters. Despite the fact that this is perfectly legitimate, we are asked in particular two questions in the SMC. Firstly, from the point of view of the time component, we need to ask ourselves whether such a proposal, i.e. a transition from so far mandatory to voluntary vaccination, is a good time. For we are living at a time when the world is awaiting a rescue vaccine against the new Coronavirus and when we take into account with all responsibility the many measures taken to jointly resist the new epidemic. Secondly, we are asked how it is appropriate that 5,000 citizens representing 0.2%, i.e. the two promi of the Slovenian population, decide on vaccination and thereby reduce the resilience of the entire population to once-rooted infectious diseases. We must not forget that the safety and effectiveness of this public health measure is uniform even to the point where the World Health Organisation has identified opponents of vaccination as one of the ten greatest threats to public health. We are in the Modern Center Party and will always be a public health advocate. It is therefore clear and clear that vaccination is still one of the best public health measures. With the help of vaccines and the systematic implementation of vaccinations as a society, we have managed to eradicate a number of infectious diseases that in the past have claimed many fatalities. Therefore, we simply cannot agree to this kind of collective gambling and we must not allow Googlemedicine to prevail in the 21st century. Of course, we would all like an individual to make a voluntary decision on certain measures, but we must be more mature and in particular more responsible for this as a society. Since we have witnessed an increasing number of infections in recent times in connection with infectious diseases, with the recurrence of already eradicated infectious diseases, and with the continued decline in preoccupation in the SMC, we are firmly in the position that compulsory vaccination is still necessary. Therefore, together with Coalition Desus and the SDS, we have tabled in the legislative process a new law, the main measure of which is the restriction on the inclusion of unvaccinated children in public and publicly co-financed kindergartens. It should be stressed here that there is no repression whatsoever, which the opponents of vaccination keep telling us. Just as the red light on the traffic light gives us a sign that crossing the road is not safe, we want to protect the most vulnerable from infections that could be fatal for them. The choice of non-vaccination of a child without medically justified reasons will also be possible in the future only if private protection is chosen for him, as we believe that anyone who chooses to do so must understand that, in any event, the questionable freedom to take risks for their own child must not in any way endanger the majority for which this risk is unacceptable, backward and may be fatal. Since we believe that the introduction of voluntary instead of compulsory vaccination would also constitute a mistrust of the profession, which is and is still through scientific knowledge and fights against the coronavirus in the first lines of battle, as well as an epidemiological step back to regression, we do not think that the proposal for a law is appropriate for further treatment in the Modern Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Left Parliamentary Group, colleague Željko Cigler.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u20	Dear President, colleagues, colleagues, guests! How is it possible for superstition and reason to walk hand in hand today? And how is it possible that the progress of science and technology is accompanied by backwardness, superstitions and the expansion of irrationality? When faced with anti-vaccination movements, we face a similar question as Hegel posed in one of his early texts. Whether the victorious mind suffered similar fates as the barbarian nations who subjugated civilized nations in their triumphant power. As rulers, though, the Barbarians had the main word on the outside, and they submitted themselves spiritually to the conquerors. And since it is a capitalist market, this is the real market that is now ruling in this world, barbaric, today society and science are subject to the surviving positions of society. Science, which directly entered the field of production, has become a productive force. Yes, science is on the market and the market is based on competition. And competition is its final truth and its first criterion. And, as Adorov has pointed out, he wants science to save the world from tension between objective and partisan, but the world cannot be saved, it remains consistent right through this tension. Reality is thus an illusion, and the laws of the market are increasingly a front under which the cruel reality of a class society lies. And the ideology of technological rationality conceals and mystifies the reality of our social system. It is mystified because it spontaneously tells us that science itself can eliminate and overcome the contradiction of capitalism. Science cannot do that, and in its own way those who oppose vaccination know that. Rather than oppose a system based on such illusions, they oppose one of the greatest medical and social achievements of modern times. By vaccination every year, we prevent the death of two million people under the age of five. Yes, in price and a collective solution to the global problem. Proposals for suspension of vaccination, however, are one of the biggest threats in public health that we know. Anti-vaccination movements are by-products of ideology, technological irrationality and liberal counterculture, which has found its home online, counterculture skepticism is a symptom of ideological disguise under which science enters our social space. And in 2017, there was a major outbreak of measles in Europe. Among the most affected were Romania and Italy, the countries of Eastern Europe have experienced the resurgence of these communicable diseases through privatisation and subsidisation of public health systems. The re-emergence in Western Europe, however, is due to the movements against the vaccination and mistrust they are spreading. So we could say that in the eastern part of Europe, there was a resurgence due to material poverty and vice versa in Western Europe, due to the poverty of the spirit. Poverty, both of them, can only be eliminated by criticism and by no means by skepticism. Skepticism to pharmaceutical multinationals leads to mysticism and irrationality. Criticism, on the other hand, makes it clear that by their pursuit of capital accumulation, pharmaceutical giants do not serve the welfare of mankind. Skeptica says science is problematic, let's give up science. Criticism says that science is at odds with social relations, so let us eliminate existing social relations and conflict. Critics are therefore demanding free access to vaccines, public ownership of pharmaceutical companies and democratic management of these companies in the service of people and public health. We will not support the proposed amendments to the law in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, colleague Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u22	Your Honor! Five thousand citizens and citizens have signed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Infectious Diseases, which we are considering today. Concerned parents sent e - mails and e - mails to Members, cited personal experiences and experiences in complications following the vaccination of their children. I admit, some stories are shocking, some almost incredible and leave a man in another world. Nevertheless, I would like to give a historical framework for the initiation of systematic vaccination in Slovenia and the world. Around 1800, vaccination against black goats began, in 1937 against diphtheria, in 1948 against tuberculosis, in 1951 against tetanus, in 1959 against the ostrich cough. The development of vaccines was crucial that the diseases that used to be mass killings throughout Europe and the world were virtually eradicated. In the New Slovenia Group, we adopted the bill and had a constructive discussion and exchange of views with it. The bill removes compulsory vaccination and introduces voluntary vaccination. As the applicant claims, this would reduce the risk of vaccination and eliminate the social conflict created by compulsory vaccination. In addition to compensation for permanent deterioration of health, the proposal also provides for the right to a monthly pension due to the side effects of vaccines. Contrary to the current law, the country also becomes liable for damage caused by professional errors in vaccination and inadequate vaccine quality. The deadline for lodging a claim for compensation would be extended from six to ten years, with the burden demonstrated being passed on to the country. In New Slovenia, we advocate that the mandatory vaccination programme be organised in accordance with modern doctrine, so that parents are properly informed and informed of all aspects of vaccination for the child, possible side effects, and that the country which prescribes compulsory vaccination will carefully keep records of these side effects in the event of adverse side effects, closely supervise and take responsibility for the vaccine manufacturers and suppliers. Quick, professional and material assistance, support for families and compensation. Due to the inadequate teaching of parents and the dissemination of theories that are not scientifically supported, more and more children are unvaccinated in Slovenia. In Slovenia, school children have fallen below 95% in recent years. For example, measles have dropped from 95.8% since 2014/2015 to 93.5% in 2018/2019. When the proportion of vaccinated people decreases below the critical limit, diseases that have been practically eradicated are re-emerged. Thus, even those who may not be vaccinated due to medical counter-indications may experience serious medical complications due to insufficient transplantation. In 2019, the World Health Organisation identified the opposition to vaccination as one of the ten threats to global health. In view of the experience we had a few weeks ago with coronavirus in both Slovenia and the world, we can carefully consider how vaccination and transplantation will be done in the future. The profession says that as a human being, we will be safe only when they discover the right medicine and vaccine, and until then, each individual’s actions and reactions must be socially responsible. We will not support the law because of all the above-mentioned Members of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u23	Thank you. The text is by the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek, a colleague of Vojko Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u24	President, thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Vaccination is one of the most important public health measures in the prevention and control of infectious diseases in us and in the world. According to data, Slovenia has one of the most fundamental compulsory vaccination systems in Europe. As a result, there is a high level of immunisation in Slovenia compared to other European countries. On the contrary, we are lagging behind in the event of voluntary vaccination. In case of voluntary influenza vaccination, we have a very low percentage. Despite the success of the mandatory vaccination programme, some people think that it constitutes an unacceptable intervention in integrity and the right to voluntary treatment. This is how novelists want to abolish the compulsory vaccination system and replace it with voluntary vaccination. As one of the key reasons, they state a reduction in the risk of vaccination, an end to the social conflict which, according to their assessment, creates mandatory vaccination. Is that true? The Constitutional Court feels differently. In 2004, it assessed that the benefits of compulsory vaccination for the health of individuals and members of the wider community exceed the weight of the consequences of interference with the constitutional rights of the individual. So when we talk about voluntary vaccination, we need to continue to talk about collective social responsibility. Can we believe that, even with good instruction, we are aware and rational enough to ensure high immunization in voluntary vaccination? If transplantation is high enough, we will also protect those who are assessed to be harmful to vaccination. The medical profession believes that if those who oppose compulsory vaccination were well-educated about the disease that we want to prevent and eradicate by vaccination, vaccination would not be opposed. Let me make just two cases. Smallpox. Disease complications occur in 30% of cases, in some cases more severe. Children may also suffer from inflammation of the middle ear and pneumonia, which is the most common cause of death. Reds. The complications here are more common in adults. Inflammation of the joints, blood clotting disorder, and even inflammation of the brain. The complications of congenital rubella are even worse: hearing loss, gray blindness, heart failure, and mental retardation. Are we really willing to risk making a voluntary vaccination decision to open the door to a disease that only some of the older generations remember? In the SAB Group, we trust the profession and estimate that such a decision would be missed. After all, in the case of recommended vaccinations, the rate of transplantation is very low. Many individuals think more selfishly, without responsibility for collective health, the purpose of vaccination. We believe that it would be good for treating doctors to have a little more time to explain to patients or vaccinees why this is good. We do not support such a proposal in the SAB. To conclude, the quote of one of the Slovenian doctors: "It is better and fairer for society as a whole to insist on vaccination until the disease is finally eradicated. The main purpose of vaccination is to stop vaccination.” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u25	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 5th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for an Act on Intervention Measures in the Comparison with Communal Disposal and Disposal Councils in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the Council of State for consideration. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee to my colleague, Bojan Pod oblast, for a further explanation of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u26	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, state councillor mag. Marko Zidanšek and, of course, all those who accompany today's session! Proposal for a law on intervention measures in the management of municipal waste packaging and waste grave candles at second reading. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 18th session. 6. 2020 as a parent labour body, considered the draft law on intervention measures in the management of municipal waste packaging and waste grave candles submitted by the State Council to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. In addition, on behalf of the proposer, the State Councillor of Mag. Marko Zidanšek pointed out that the issue of the handling of municipal waste packaging and waste grave candles had become acute since 2018 when some of the waste management companies did not take over the amount of waste as set out in the sectoral rules. As a result, overcrowding of municipal waste packaging and waste grave candles have accumulated from the warehouses of municipal companies, making the situation increasingly unsustainable. As a result, an intervention law was already adopted at the end of 2018 to ensure the intervention of the State to ensure the management of municipal waste packaging and of grave candles, but only by the end of 2019. However, the problem has not yet been addressed systematically at this time, and this year the problem of accumulated waste packaging in municipal warehouses has started to increase again. For this reason, the Council of State has taken the initiative to prepare and introduce a new intervention law into the legislative process. He further highlighted the conclusion and expressed satisfaction that, in the meantime, the Ministry of Environment and Space had also detected the problem and extended the interim measures in the area of handling municipal waste packaging until the end of 2020 in anti-Korona legislation, thus temporarily resolving the problem. As a result, the drafter sees no longer the need for its adoption in the draft law, but calls on the competent ministry to approach a systemic solution to this area, otherwise we will face the same challenges again at the beginning of next year. Representative of the Legal and Legislative Service mag. In addition to its comments on each article, the Hrvat Pirnat method highlighted in particular the relationship between Article 100a of the Law on Intervention Measures for the control of the COVID-19 epidemic and the mitigation of its consequences for citizens and the economy, which lays down rules for the management of waste packaging. It pointed out that, after that time, Article 100a would have ceased to apply, but its legal consequences remained. However, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, Article 100a was extended until 2020, so that in the case of the adoption of a bill in the proposed text it would certainly become a situation where the same subject matter would be governed by two laws in a different way, which is unacceptable in terms of legal certainty. The representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, Dr. Metka Gorišek, stressed that the issue of accumulated municipal waste packaging and waste grave candles has a temporary solution in anti-Korona legislation. The public waste collection or treatment service shall allow waste packaging which has not been taken over by a waste packaging company only to be further processed by operators and at the same time lays down the conditions under which it can deliver it. This solves the problem by the end of this year. There is also a new regulation in preparation that will regulate the situation in the field systematically. As a result, the Government sees no reason to adopt and does not support the proposal. In the light of the views expressed by the applicant, the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government, the Committee adopted without discussion the conclusion that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I give the word "magic." Mark Zidanšk, representative of the Council of State, as proposer of the bill for presentation of the position on the proposal of the home working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u28	Mr President, honourable Members, the rest are present. The Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space has taken up what we have discussed on the committee responsible, but I think it is important to add a few more sentences, particularly in the direction of how important it is for the State to regulate this area systematically. As you have heard, now three, almost four years of business have not been settled, but we are talking about promoting basic processing, saying that we will return the useful part of waste back to industry. And that is what is the essence of everything when we have a full mouth, including a circular economy, where it is easy, if the state of the system of this matter is not well-managed, there are these anomalies, and not only these anomalies, but there are several million funding from the state budget now and we are not actually implementing the basic rule that the causer pays. Once again, I must sincerely thank you, because the bill was formed in cooperation with the Chamber of Municipal Economy immediately after the new year, when there was no hearing at the Ministry of the Environment and Space for the warehouses of this piled-up packaging and waste grave candles. It is a matter of the previous government, I must say that there has been a hearing and a matter arranged here, so thank you, too, for adopting this in anti-korona legislation, both in COVID 2, and in particular that you also corrected the error in COVID 3 to extend the deadline until the end of the year. It is now six months for the Ministry or Government to take care of this area, especially because we are doing enormous moral damage to ourselves because of the irregularity of this area. You know that in all these years we've been leading people to separate wastes, and now we're just showing them the accumulated piles on TV and the inappropriate handling of these raw materials. I also hope and express the expectation that the government will settle the matter by the end of the year, that we will not be discussing again in the coming year, that, God forbid, some kind of intervention law will be in place again. So much for me, so thank you very much. I understand that you will vote that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration mainly because the matter is now settled in COVID 2 and COVID 3. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u29	I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present my position on the proposal of the parent working body. Dr. Metka Gorišek, State Secretary of the Ministry of Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u30	Thank you. Your Honor, good bye to all of you! I would not repeat what has already been said, but would add only a few words regarding further procedures or further work at the Ministry of the Environment and Space on a permanent solution to the waste packaging. It is possible that only the information about why this packaging has accumulated. In fact, operators carrying the waste packaging were obliged to carry as much as the contract was paid. This was also found by the Constitutional Court. As a result, all these quantities, which were not included in the contracts with individual operators of the export, also remained on municipal companies. However, the problem was that the regulation had put in place a threshold for the payment of the collection of packaging waste and the recording of data on individual packaging manufacturers of 15 thousand tonnes per year, and this threshold was significantly too high. Many packages also come through shipments ordered by individuals or businesses online and not recorded anywhere. Therefore, this threshold will now be reduced in the new regulation, so that essentially the extent to which the removal of waste packaging will also be paid will be significantly greater. We're counting on one ton produced per year. This will also prevent the accumulation of packaging in municipal companies. The regulation is in preparation and we expect it to be in intersectoral coordination within one month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The Member Group of the Slovenian National Party, colleague Dušan Šiško, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u32	Nice hello to you all! I'm not surprised we came here because we're literally drowning in garbage. Because in glass, wooden, mixed municipal packaging, up to 50% of the takeover is expected. We used to have a garbage can in front of the house, we used to smoke paper in the garden, and the kids used to collect it. We threw biological waste on the compost, and we could return empty return bottles. Today, we need to separate the waste and drive some on foot, others by car, to the ecological islands. The problem is, we don't have a garbage disposal anymore. This dumpster that we have at home, the utility companies empty out after 14 days, and in there, some neighbors can throw things away and then get the punishment of the one where this dumpster is located. As far as the amount of wasteful grave candles is concerned, I have a feeling that people are competing, who will light more candles on one grave on November 1st, even 10, 15 candles, and not in a year. In Posavia, we still smell because we have conversation gypsies burning different tires, cars calling firemen, and they attack them, but this smoke still goes out, into the air. We need to work towards re-use of waste, recycling and processing, otherwise warehouses will be littered with stitches, which will also entail other costs. The increased responsibility of manufacturers and the care of packaging launched on the market is important. In view of the manufacturer’s obligation to pay all costs of handling waste packaging, the packaging should be so high that it actually covers all costs. The risk to human health and the environment is high, since no one wants to smell the stench, get, say, mouse chills due to excessive rodent reproduction. We all want to drink clean water, and we do not want to endanger the groundwater by washing the materials out of the municipal waste packaging. Because of UV rays, ozone and parachute waters, storage on the outdoor degradation of polymers is too long, thus loss of usable and sales value. The aim of the law is to provide a legal basis for the State's intervention, with care to address the consequences of excessive environmental burdens and to cover the costs of removal. Due to the implementation of the Republic of Slovenia has the right and duty to recover costs from companies and holders of joint plans which have not fulfilled certain obligations under the applicable rules. In other Member States, there was no need for intervention measures to be taken in view of the failure to take over municipal waste packaging and waste cemeteries. But Slovenia is such a small and uninhabited country, and we're going to go like this right now. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that there is a need for supervision of the implementation by the inspection responsible for environmental protection. But high fines are prescribed for those who work their way. We were also disturbed by the fourth paragraph of Article 5 where a person is required to submit the financial insurance of the amount and duration set out in the selection documentation. This seems a burden to us, because in Slovenia we have this stupid condition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u33	Thank you. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, colleague Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u34	Dear President, thank you for the floor to the Proposal for an Act on Intervention Measures in the Treatment of Municipal Waste Packaging and Waste Cemetery Candles in the Second Treatment. The problem of handling municipal waste packaging and waste grave candles has become acute since 2018, when some of the waste management companies did not take over the amount of waste as set out in the sectoral rules. As a result, overcrowding of municipal containers and waste grave candles have been accumulated in stored utilities, making the situation increasingly unsustainable. As a result, an intervention law has already been adopted at the end of 2018 to ensure the intervention of countries to ensure the management of municipal waste packaging and of grave candles by the end of 2019. The problem has not yet been addressed systematically and the problem of accumulated waste packaging in municipal warehouses has started to rise again in early this year. The Ministry of Environment and Space, in anti-Korona legislation, extended temporary measures in the area of municipal waste packaging management until the end of 2020 and temporarily solved the problem. However, we are pleased with the information, and we are very pleased to hear from the competent minister in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this regulation is being systematically resolved and that the new year in 2021 will resolve this systemic solution. Of course, with regard to this problem, which has plagued us for many years, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we guarantee that we will offer all the help we can get this regulation finally resolved systematically and, of course, the Ministry will get all the votes of the Slovenian Democratic Party in favour of the citizens and the economy that has problems in this area. I also say that we will reject this bill because it is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca, a colleague of Rudy Medved.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Of course, it is possible to agree, deeply agree with the Council of State as the proponent of amendments to the law. The waste packaging problem was acute and still acute. The previous intervention law, which ceased to apply at the end of last year, has partially, I stress, partially solved this problem. On the one hand, it is not true that the Ministry of Environment and Space in the previous government did not take a systematic approach to solving this problem. Had it not been for a systematic approach at that time, the current composition of the Ministry of Environment and Space could not have offered the National Assembly so quickly for the adoption of the amendment to the Environmental Protection Act. Indeed, I do not know why the former Minister of the Environment did not offer the Government, after the expiry of the intervention law, and consequently to the National Assembly the extension of this intervention law. That's why the State Council jumped in, which, of course, is commendable. The position of our parliamentary group is simple, normal, that if we resolve these matters in the anti-Korona law, then the amendment of the law, as proposed by the State Council, becomes irrelevant. But the problem is, despite the fact that the anti-Korona law is valid and that intervention matters are being resolved, the problem, of course, remains on the ground. In fact, not only is this piled-up packaging currently left at the depots of utility companies, but even more so, this packaging still accumulates from day to day. I will tell you about one medium-sized municipality with 17,000 people who currently have 130 tonnes of this waste packaging on its depot, and waits for five weeks, waits for five weeks for the Ministry of Environment and Space to confirm or sign a contract because the municipal company has long since carried out all the procedures at the Ministry of Environment and Space, and according to my opinion all of these contracts currently stand for a month, for municipal companies for unknown reasons. In fact, no one can or does not want to tell them exactly why the law is not being implemented in practice. And so we've arranged everything on paper, everything, everything stands. Of course, the proposal for a law of the State Council is not suitable for further consideration, since the anti-Korona law has already arranged all of this. It's actually all arranged on paper. In practice, nothing is currently regulated and this packaging is still stocked from day to day. It will probably be true that there are about 42 or 43 thousand tons of this waste packaging, which no one is carrying. No one takes her away, but the law is interventional. So, if it's interventional, it's interventional to get something settled quickly. Here the Ministry of Environment and Space all together for once according to me known data is blocking for unknown reasons. Whether we will do this systematically first, the Ministry of Environment and Space will move forward, and yet these treaties will also sign or tell municipal companies not to sign them.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The text is delivered by the Group of Social Democrats, a colleague of Jani Prednik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u38	President, thank you. A nice hello to all of you! Communal waste packaging and waste grave candles are in Slovenia, not only in Slovenia, but also in the world, a major problem that not only endangers our health and life, especially the nature and environment in which we live. That this issue of waste packaging and waste candles is indeed large and still very current, the fact that we have solved this issue in this reference has already been resolved in the current reference to the National Council by the intervention law prepared by the Ministry of Environment and Space at that time. By means of legal proposals, this issue is also being addressed by the State Council. And finally, this issue is so acute that the government is solving it with our view of articles in marriage packages against the consequences of covid-19. The fact is that we are facing mountains of waste packaging that are threatening both our environment and our health. At the end of November, thousands of tons of waste grave candles are collected in collecting places, and long-term solutions are not intervention laws or articles. The solutions that we want in the Social Democrats Group must be systemic, and above all they must go towards reducing waste packaging and waste candles. However, in order to achieve an ambitious goal, so-called zero wastes, we will have to change our way of life in particular, with respect and respect. The SD Group will support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. My friend Gregor Perich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u40	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for this intervention law, which we have before us today, in practice constitutes some kind of upgrade to the intervention law that we have already considered and confirmed in December 2018. Although our country is green and clean, we were faced with quite a challenge at the time, so buying waste packaging was waiting for takeover. Not only was the environmental problem ahead, but these excess quantities of waste packaging also posed a health and safety risk. However, the public service providers have been and are still some kind of hostage to the system we have, and despite their duty to ensure the smooth operation of these services, on the other hand, they have obstacles on this path so that they can, on the other hand, broadcast the collected waste packaging. On the basis of the present intervention law, the competent companies have taken over quite a lot of these piled-up packages, but we must admit that unfortunately the country has not been able to resolve this problem in its entirety only through intervention measures. It is therefore more than clear at this point that the problem is of a broader nature. As for the bill that we are considering today, which has been tabled in the legislative process by the Council of State, it is mainly based on the initiative of the Chamber of Commons. We see it in the SMC as some kind of call for help. By the end of this year, the Chamber estimated that around 516 tonnes of wood packaging, some 49 thousand 800 tonnes of mixed municipal waste packaging and more than 17 thousand 300 tons of glass, would be accumulated by utilities. The seriousness of the situation, which has also been identified by the Minister for Environment and Space, is currently being addressed through a specific measure under the first anti-Korona marriage package. It should be borne in mind that the amount of waste packaging, in particular the protective equipment used during the control measures for the spread of coronavirus, has increased significantly. Just as we Members have taken these measures under the anti-korona packages, we have also allowed the country to take care of the problem and prevent an environmental disaster that has already hit our door again. It has also been reaffirmed that the existing system regime is inappropriate, not optimal and that we are forced to resolve it through intervention measures. We will not undermine the proposed law in the SMC, because we are primarily calling on the current minister to continue planning and coordinating the relevant measures already imposed by his predecessors and the Environmental Protection Act to try to harmonise it with all stakeholders as soon as possible and to try to bring it into the legislative process if possible before the deadlines for the provisional measures contained in the first anti-Korona marriage package expire. To conclude, only that the issue of incineration of waste in Slovenia is being raised automatically. We must be aware that this is not just waste, but that these wastes also represent fuel, that they also have some economic value, and we will have to find some consensus on this in the future. More about it probably some other time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Left Parliamentary Group, a colleague of Natasha Sukić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, good-bye! A year and a half ago, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Intervention Measures in the Treatment of Municipal Packaging and Waste Cemetery Candles. The law had to be adopted because the country has left the market for services such as processing and processing of packaging waste. As a result, by the end of 2018 more than 90 tonnes of waste packaging and grave candles had been collected in collection centres. As a result of the fact that at some point the profit motive of private companies for handling waste packaging was no longer satisfied. And since there was no profit left in the shipment, they left it in the collection centers, thus endangering not only the workers and workers there, but also the health of the surrounding population. The former government did not set up a 100 % state-owned public undertaking to provide for the removal and management of waste packaging in a non-profit manner. It passed only a law that allowed the bulky purchases of waste packaging to be cleaned up, even though the government had promised fast, systematic changes. But nothing happened. However, the validity of the intervention law slowly expired and the State Council introduced its intervention law. He has now resigned from this law. There is no need for its adoption, since in the meantime the anti-Korona legislation has been dealt with by the current government in the spirit of capital gains. We have noted in Levica that the proposal for regulation in anti-Korona legislation does not contain any restrictions on the reasons why packaging companies can take over waste packaging in municipal companies. This raised concerns that packaging companies would simply switch to the state budget, although those who place packaging on the market are already receiving packaging for this purpose. In this way, waste packaging companies charge one and the same service twice, first receive money in the form of packaging and then in the form of payment from the budget. This is an unjustified state subsidy to companies which, by their behaviour and blackmail in the past, have caused a dangerous accumulation of waste packaging in public collection services operators. And this is about companies that, according to the Ministry of Environment and Space, in 2018 alone, have obtained almost EUR 3 million worth of assets at the expense of unfulfilled obligations under environmental permits. In Levica, we have already pointed out, by interfering with the existing regime for the handling of waste packaging with anti-korona laws, that the proposed regime allows for a type of abuse. We have proposed that the disputed regime be deleted, but the guardians of the interests of companies' profits in handling waste packaging in the National Assembly have opposed. And so, a good month after the adoption of the law in the media, we read that by the end of May, more than 40,000 tonnes of waste packaging were collected in collection centres throughout the country, that they were not taken over by the companies to deal with it, and that they applied for tenders on the basis of which they could make a profit under the Crown Law. Among them are those whose original task was to remove the packaging from the collection centres on the basis of the packaging already collected. In this regard, the Director of the Waste Management Centre, Puconci, stated: “As far as I know and have data from some of the areas where they apply for tenders, they have been given the opportunity to take over and regroup the packaging, so they are double-remunerated.” End of story. Since the intervention law of the Council of State, we are saying goodbye today, not suitable for further consideration. By the end of the year, the dual-profit system will still be in place, then it is likely to follow the intervention law and in the following year another one, until the intervention measures become definitively systemic and until the ruling policy cuts through the issue of appetites for profit from private companies to deal with waste packaging. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, colleague Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed Law on Intervention Measures in the Management of Municipal Waste Packaging and Waste Ceilings, which is proposed by the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, aims to provide a legal basis for State intervention in the acquisition and production of waste packaging and gravestones. Last year, December 2019, the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia abolished changes in environmental permits for waste packaging companies, which are therefore from 1. 1. 2020 has begun to take strictly into account the provisions of the initial environmental permits. These oblige them to take care only of the packaging placed on the market only by their contractual undertakings. In view of the fact that, according to the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, packaging is not paid for more than 53 % of all the packaging collected, it can be expected that no packaging will be taken over by the public service operators of municipal waste until further society, and therefore the packaging will be stored dangerously in their warehouses, resulting in a high risk to the protection of the environment and of healthy people and a risk of achieving the prescribed environmental objectives in the field of waste management. The proposal for a law on intervention measures in the handling of municipal waste packaging and waste grave candles therefore proposes that, pursuant to Article 100a, a public collection or treatment service operator be allowed to carry out a waste packaging which has not been taken over by the waste packaging company itself for further processing. The costs incurred by the waste treatment operator will be borne by the Republic of Slovenia under certain conditions. At the time of covid-19, the representative of the applicant already noted and expressed satisfaction at the problem at the Ministry of Environment and Space and in the so-called anti-Korona legislation that they had also detected a problem in the area of municipal waste packaging management until the end of 2020, thus temporarily resolving the problem. In view of the fact that the State Secretary has said that there is already a new regulation in preparation that will resolve the situation in this area systematically, the drafter of the law sees no reason for its adoption. For the same reasons, Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will therefore vote in favour of the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek, a colleague of mags. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u46	Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The legislation on waste management obliges us to separate at the site of their development. Are individuals and businesses really doing such duties carefully enough? Are we taking the necessary measures to minimise waste? The removal of municipal waste packaging and candles is, in fact, the result of irresponsible waste management. The key problem in our debate is therefore the accumulation of waste, since waste management companies do not take over the agreed amount. The intervention law adopted at the end of 2018 to address the problem enabled the capacity of the waste dump to be increased without difficult administrative environmental procedures and was in force until 2019. Data from the beginning of this year thus show that municipal companies were not part of the task, since the warehouses of municipal companies remained full. They have accumulated more than 12,000 tons of waste packaging, in January alone, 5,000 700 tonnes, and in the black scenario, the quantity will increase to more than 65,000 tonnes. In December 2019, the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia abolished changes in environmental permits for waste packaging companies. According to the motioner, by the ruling of the Administrative Court, we will not fully resolve the issue, which was the reason why the State Council, in cooperation with the Municipal Economy Chamber, proposed a new intervention law at the end of February 2020. Thus, in April 2020, the Law on Intervention Measures for the Control of the Epidemic and the Mitigation of its Consequences for Citizens and the Economy, which deals substantively with the same matter as the Council of State, introduced into consideration. The law thus allows the Republic of Slovenia to cover, on the basis of appropriate and complete documentation, the costs of handling waste packaging. In the SAB, however, we expect future costs to be settled by packaging manufacturers. In the light of the article adopted by the so-called anti-korona law, which will be in force by the end of 2020, the proposer and the committee do not see the need to adopt the amendment of the law, and the legislative and legal service considers the adoption of the law in terms of legal certainty unacceptable. By the beginning of the following year, regulations need to be systematically regulated by a regulation, since problems with municipal packaging and a set of intervention laws have been taking place since 2006. In the SAB party, we therefore stress that waste in the circular economy needs to be seen primarily as a raw material that needs to be reused and re-processed with the necessary knowledge and thus create a higher added value. This gives us new opportunities, especially in the light of the uncertain economic situation ahead of us, and thus presents new development opportunities. Let us not forget, for nature, the environment and society, we can do the most by not producing waste. In the SAB party, we therefore advocate and call on everyone to jointly support efforts towards zero waste, so-called zero wastes, which we consider to be the right path. Responsibility is thus shared among manufacturers who must properly plan and produce their products, local communities, which must promote responsible use, degradation and reuse of natural resources and raw materials, and, finally, to us, to political decision makers who are obliged to adopt the necessary legislation, which will promote and encourage responsible use of resources and raw materials, and to punish irresponsibly. We report from the SAB that we understand the green breakthrough as a development opportunity and therefore take it seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The text is given by the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, colleague Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The National Council, by means of the Proposal for an Law on intervention measures in the management of municipal waste packaging and waste grave candles, wanted to regulate intervention measures in the management of municipal waste packaging and waste lamp treatment in the event that the quantity remaining in the public service operators poses a risk to human health and environmental pollution and the achievement of the environmental objectives set out in the field of waste management. In the Desus Group we will not embark on the proposed solution, we understand the purpose of the State Council, but Article 100a of the Law on Intervention Measures to Control the COVID-19 Epidemic and to mitigate its consequences for citizens and the economy of the solution that addresses the problem of waste packaging. Thus, the law already in force solves the situation of certain operators of the mandatory municipal public service for the collection or processing of certain types of municipal waste whose pre-storage capacity is exceeded, thereby posing a risk to the protection of the environment and human health and to the achievement of the prescribed environmental objectives in the field of waste management. Pursuant to Article 100a, the public collection or processing service operator shall be allowed to carry out a waste packaging which has not been taken over by the company for the management of the waste packaging only in order to further process the processing operators and lays down the conditions under which it can deliver it. This measure is necessary because it is necessary to prevent further accumulation of waste packaging in public service operators. The costs of handling waste packaging to be incurred by the waste treatment operator will be borne by the Republic of Slovenia under certain conditions. So the government addressed appropriate solutions to the problems of municipal waste packaging. With the proposal for a law, the Council of State sought to regulate the management of waste grave candles by means of intervention measures, but it must be said that the Government had already explained that during the time of the adoption of the Regulation on Waste Cancellations, the collection of waste grave candles took place without major congestion. For this reason, the Desus Group supports the proposal for a decision of the National Assembly that the proposal for an intervention law in the handling of municipal waste packaging and waste grave candles is not suitable for further treatment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 5th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is a second defensive proposal for a law amending the penal code under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the Council of State for consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Marjan Maucec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! As it has been said, the law has been in existence for quite some time, there have also been a lot of comments, but in the State Council, where we also represent local interests, the mayors have highlighted the problems that are taking place, especially what can happen if the surrounding countries, which is also generally known – Hungary, Austria and Italy, are very restrictive to cross the border – and then Slovenia could become a pocket. It is difficult to imagine that the case as it once was, but then thank God as a transitional area, when Germany has accepted refugees, one way or another, it is now clear to everyone that this will not happen. None of us know what will happen in Turkey once the matter is over. As a result, this law, which in Article 308 defines refugees and those who help refugees on this illegal path, was created in the first and third paragraphs. The key point is to define in the first paragraph that each transition is, regardless of whether it is with or without weapons, as it has been written so far, that only those carrying weapons are a criminal offence. We estimate that everything should be defined as a crime. Even the findings that have been that this also means for the Slovenes do not, of course, hold because the Slovenian comes to his country, is not a defector, and these matters are not comparable. We now have in the existing law such that it is somehow from three months to three years for one who illegally enters the country. Of course, refugees don't do this, they don't have guns, but they choose other illegal routes, and then they can lead to what I said. Our proposal is that every illegal crossing of the Slovenian border is an immediate exile. And at another pass or returnees, as it happens, you probably know now that we're bringing them to Slovenia, we're taking them to a collection center, we're giving them food and drink there, we're cleaning them up, and then we're bringing them back. And I don't know how many times this is happening. This bill prevents this and, above all, it is important that all those who have this idea know what awaits them in Slovenia, not the hotel, but the exile awaits them. And, of course, a prison sentence. It is even worse and even more disorderly as regards those who organise transitions in one form or another, with cars, with vans and pedestrians, and, of course, those who also allow, provide shelter and, above all, falsify documents. For these there is now a penalty of up to five years, our proposal is from five to fifteen years, for the simple reason that we need to be somehow selective in this sense, that whoever accidentally fell into both a matter that is not aware of all the responsibilities, which may happen, cannot be equally punished, with the same period of imprisonment as those who, by so doing, are professionally engaged and daily transporting these people, of course takes money, harms the state and affords illegal earnings. That's two key issues. We were aware that, on a legal basis, this proposal was very problematic because there was already a problem with a similar law in the Constitutional Court. Therefore, we very much welcome the amendment tabled by the coalition, which actually follows this objective, and in the end it solves the matter more or less, because the message from Slovenia from this house must be: You have nothing to look for if you are not invited, especially if you are not from an area where the war is, which we have already resolved in that we are not a country directly bordering on the military area. And I think in this way they will very much consider whether anyone in Slovenia will organise this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Justice as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Blaž Pavlin, President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u52	President, thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The Committee on Justice is at its 16th regular session 3. 6. 2020 as a parent working body considered the proposal for a law amending the Penal Code submitted to the National Council for consideration by the National Council and published on the websites of the National Assembly on 17 October 2019. In a supplementary explanation of the articles, the representative of the proposer, Mr Marjan Maučec, said that the State Council, as a representative of local interests, had listened to mayors from various political parties, with the proposed change in the crime of border crossing or territory of the country, when the number of illegal migrants entering our country, together with the perceived anti-migrant policy of neighbouring countries, became a migrant pocket at the same time as the Republic of Slovenia. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that they had pointed out in their written legal opinion the expansion of the criminal zone in the crime in question. Such a proposal is considered excessive, in particular because anyone, including a Slovenian citizen, could be an incriminated perpetrator. They also pointed out that the proposed offence could be covered by comparable offences under the Foreigners Act and the State Border Control Act and that the envisaged penalty was not consistent with the general provisions of the Penal Code in the imposition of foreign penalties. They have no comments on the proposed amendment and assess that it is aimed at a similar objective, but with a different approach. The representative of the Government, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Matic Zupan, presented a written opinion from the Government, which does not support the proposed amendment of Article 308 of the Penal Code, since it could be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the legal order of the European Union. Representative of the State Attorney's Office, Mag. Andrej Ferlinc and Samo Košir said that they were joining the statements from the written opinions given which opposed the bill. Police representative Slavko Koroš also expressed support for the written opinions given, but also welcomed initiatives aimed at protecting the state, citizens and their property. He said that such crimes were largely committed by well-organised foreign criminal associations, and it would be good for the police to be able to use covert investigative measures to detect them effectively. In the debate, the Coalition Members followed a number of concerns about the non-compliance of the proposed provisions with the legal order and presented a proposal for an amendment to the Committee, which, in so far as the principle of general prevention is concerned, only proportionally increases the criminal penalties for certain forms of the offence, such as smuggling, concealment and other assistance to foreigners in the illegal entry into the country, leaving the proposed intervention to the basic form of the offence. The opposition Members objected to the proposed amendments because they feel they are too specific and thus prejudice the fundamental principles of criminal law, such as the principle of predictability, the principle of legality, the principle of legal certainty and the principle of individualised treatment of perpetrators. The Committee adopted its amendment to Article 1 at the proposal of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and adopted both articles of the draft law together.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u53	For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Matic Zupan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! On the original text of the bill, the Government had already submitted its written opinion, in which it expressed, above all, its restraint towards the proposed solutions, where it would have highlighted in particular two, namely, the proposal of the law, which somehow sought to introduce a virtually complete cover-up of the proposed definition of the criminal offence of the illegal crossing of the state border by defining a violation of the illegal entry into the Republic of Slovenia under the Aliens Act. The latter, however, has been repeatedly challenged in the past by the Constitutional Court as inconsistent with the rule of law because it infringes on the principle of legality in criminal law. And the second, rather controversial solution, was an immediate exorcism which the police should have carried out as soon as the suspect of the crime was discovered, with the expulsion of a foreigner under the current legislation being allowed to be imposed only as a foreign sanction. Very similar concerns were raised by the Legislative and Legal Service, in a written opinion also by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as by the representative of the High Prosecutor and the representative of the Police. As a result, when considering the proposal for a new law on the Committee on Justice, an amendment has been adopted, which has deleted this first, most controversial part of the solution, in the way that the proposal is now, in a more domestic sense, only raises the risk of imprisonment for so-called smugglers and does not prejudice the basic offence referred to in Article 308. In this way, however, these concerns have also been overturned by the Government's written opinion on the constitutional compatibility of the novel proposal. Despite this change in the end, I would like to point out that the Government is also preparing certain solutions in this area. In the context of the KZ proposal, the Penal Code states, we will also examine from a comparative point of view the relevance of the current 308th Article, which speaks of the illegal transition of the state border, both in basic form and in qualified forms, which the colleagues of practice, in particular from the police, have highlighted some difficulties in the legal qualification of some of the related prohibited practices. The preparation of this proposal is in the final stage. In professional inter-resort coordination, we're going to relay it somewhere within about a week or two. In our opinion, however, the issue will also be addressed more appropriately by the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act, where we will try to contribute to a more effective investigation of these crimes by facilitating the detention of foreigners in front of an investigative judge. Here, too, in practice, a few dilemmas have arisen in the case of such a foreigner being presented as the perpetrator of the offence, while the detection and prosecution authorities would like to use him as a witness against the smuggler or the transport organiser. This proposal has already been submitted for professional cross-cutting coordination at the beginning of this month with an appropriate deadline for stakeholders to respond. This, last time, was not related to the novel itself, which is before you today, but it is important for the context itself that the Government also prepares certain solutions here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, a colleague of mags. Dean Kaloh.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u56	President, thank you so much for your word. Greetings, fellow Members, and representatives of the Ministry as well as the proposer, Mr Maučec, State Councillor! Good day to you all. Today we are considering a proposal for a law amending the Penal Code, KZ-1G, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The number of irregular migrants trying to enter the European Union is steadily increasing. The problem of smuggling illegal migrants across national borders is also of concern to our country, as Slovenia is on one of the most burdened migration routes. The criminal act of bringing people across borders is very often also associated with the high risk to life, human health, organised criminal associations and, as with our society, extremely dangerous and rejected criminal activity. The KZ-1G proposal originally provided for an amendment to Article 38, paragraph 1, and Article 38, paragraph 3, of the Penal Code, which is thus a criminal offence against the prohibition of crossing the border or the territory of the State. The amendment to paragraph 1 was proposed by providing as a criminal offence for any illegal crossing of the border of the Republic of Slovenia or any other entry into its territory. For the first such crossing of the State border or entry into the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposal provided for the sentence of immediate expulsion from the Republic of Slovenia and, when repeated, provided for a prison sentence of one to two years and a fine of two years and expressly provided for the expulsion from the Republic of Slovenia following the termination of the sentence. However, the amendment of the third paragraph of Article 308 KZ-1 provided for a more severe penalty for a specific offence in this Article, ranging from a sentence of up to five years in prison from five to 15 years in prison. The amendment of the Justice Committee has brought about the deletion of the proposed amendments to Article 308(1). In doing so, the Committee followed a number of concerns about the non-compliance of the proposed provisions with the Constitution, as well as other provisions of the Code, as expressed in its opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of this House. It is now exclusively aimed at raising the penalty for smugglers or organisers and carriers of criminal groups involved in smuggling illegal migrants. The amendment to the form of the criminal offence referred to in Article 308(3) shall maintain the amendment to the increase in the prison sentence, but the proposed provision with the amendment shall be amended by fixing the penalty at three to 10 years in prison. For the form of a criminal offence referred to in Article 308(6) of the KZ-1, “who, when committing such offences to himself or to anyone else, acquires disproportionate wealth or provides an unlawful labour force or causes a risk to the life or health of persons or such acts as a member of a criminal association”, the penalty shall be three to 15 years of imprisonment. In the criminal context of the General Prevention, the lifting of the penalty for the renunciation of offences against illegal migrants in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia is a very important signal to criminals that long-term prison sentences, up to 15 years of imprisonment, are awaiting them in the execution of such offences. We welcome the amendment of the KZ-1G Committee on Justice in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, a colleague of Tina Heferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u58	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In the LMŠ Group, we are aware that asylum and criminal legislation are not adapted to the existing situation, but we are also aware of the complexity and importance that these two areas represent for society and our country. Indeed, criminal legislation is a substance that should be modified on the basis of some serious considerations, in cooperation with expertise and taking into account the serious criminal principles in force in our legal system. The novel as before us today is, in effect, unhappy, incomplete, and professionally incorruptible. Every time we talk about criminal content, we need to be very specific, especially when we are talking about spreading the field of any of the crimes already in existence or when we are modifying the criminal sanctions already envisaged. All those who are involved in criminal law at any time, in the case of today's novelty and the Council of State, should be aware of how important it is to respect criminal law principles, such as the principle of legality and the principle of certainty, and, on the other hand, should be aware of how important it is to respect and include criminal law. None of the above is respected when preparing and considering this novel. Today, we cannot go beyond criticism to the Council of State, which, as the second home of Parliament, is a legitimate bill-maker, but is expected to submit its proposals in an expert manner. None of the above is respected when preparing and considering this novel. The text proposal does not take into account the foundations laid down in our criminal law. It does not take into account the existing system of ranking criminal sanctions and existing criminal policies. And as I mentioned before, he doesn't even consider the profession. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia has been designated by this proposal, which is rebuffed. It noted that the system of prescribed prison sentences for individual offences within the Penal Code had not been taken into account and that it therefore opposed the amendment. None of the above is respected when preparing and considering this novel. Such a change in criminal law, as we are considering today, is not only dangerous for the proportionality of the crime in question, but is also dangerous in terms of proportionality and stability of the entire criminal system. In the opinion of the LMŠ Group, it is certainly considered that such important and sensitive content is not allowed to change both over the thumb, flat and overnight, without taking into account and including the criminal law profession at all. As we recall, before amending the provisions defining the crime of rape, we made a public presentation of opinions in the National Assembly, and this is the right way to amend criminal law. Finally, it does not go without taking into account the fundamental criminal principles on which our rule of law stands or falls. We do not support the proposed novels because of all the above in the LMŠ.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u60	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, we have a proposal for amendments to the Penal Code prepared by the Council of State in its original form, but the coalition parties with the amendment of the Committee have completely amended or domestically overrun it. The original proposal of the State Council was poorly prepared, for it was opposed by the Government, opposed by the Supreme Court, and in its opinion the Legislative and Legal Service gave a lot of warnings and concerns. The proposal clearly violated the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and was also contrary to the provisions of international law, not to mention the consequences of such a proposal in practice and the difficulties the police should face in implementing it. With the coalition amendment, which has apparently been adopted in order to at least partially please the Council of State, the proposal now foresees only a rise in the risk of imprisonment for human smugglers, ranging from a sentence of up to five years in prison to a sentence of three to 10 years, but for those who work in a criminal association or for themselves, for whom they gain disproportionate wealth or provide an unlawful labour force or a threat to health and human life, a sentence of one to eight years would be imposed on a person from three to 15 years in prison. At first glance, it is an extremely popular and populist gesture or proposal, but when we make a comparison with other crimes, we see that 15 years in prison is a punishment for the most serious crimes, such as the crime of murder or the crime of gang rape, so this is an extremely high and, in our opinion, disproportionate punishment, which in some ways violates the relationship between the prescribed offences and the gravity of the individual offences. Experts, such as Dr. Matjaž Ambrož of the Ljubljana Faculty of Law, have also come forward, reminding himself that he would like to be approached on the basis of studies and analyses, not on the basis of horace and on the basis of daily political needs. I therefore respect the amendment's proposal if a study of the analysis has been carried out to show that the increase in punishment will have a real effect on fewer of these crimes. Has there been a comparison of the penalties at stake with other crimes? Have any of the opinion experts been asked? Was the person involved in the field asked for an opinion? Of course not. The proposal of the State Council was corrected quickly and recklessly. Social Democrats stress that criminal legislation is one of the most sensitive legal areas, and special caution is still needed, and any changes must therefore be well thought out and made on the basis of in-depth analyses and expertise and opinions. There is certainly no room here for political meddling, for collecting likenesses and political points. Regrettably, this proposal is exactly the kind of handball action that is designed and quick, along the line of least resistance to solving problems, all of which is unfortunately to the detriment of the rule of law. Therefore, the Social Democrats will not support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, chairman. Secretary of State, state councillor, MPs, Members of Parliament, very nice greeting! The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia provides for the amendment of Article 308(1) and (3) by means of a proposal for a new Penal Code. The amendment of paragraph 1 is proposed by providing as a criminal offence for any illegal violation of the border of the Republic of Slovenia or any other entry into its territory and providing for the punishment of immediate expulsion from the Republic of Slovenia and, at the time of repetition, providing for a prison sentence of one to two years and a financial penalty and expressly prescribes that expulsion from the Republic of Slovenia shall be carried out following the termination of the sentence. However, the amendment to the third paragraph of Article 308 lays down stricter penalties, ranging from a sentence of up to five years in prison to a sentence of five to 15 years in prison. In the SMC Group, we first wanted the bill to be rejected, because we both agree with the opinion of our legislative service, as well as with the governments, which point out that the proposed determination of the signs of crime is excessive and, as such, may be contrary to Article 2, 32, in relation to Article 15 of the Constitution of Slovenia. Such a legal regime contravenes the principles of the rule of law and interferes with the principle of legality in criminal law and Article 28 of the Constitution. These statements were joined by both the Supreme Prosecutor's Office and the police, who oppose the bill. In the SMC Group, we believe that the State Council, as a constitutionally designated lawmaker, cannot afford an approach contrary to our constitutional order and EU law and the international legal order or the Hague Convention on Refugees. Despite these facts, however, we have listened to the warnings of our security authorities as well as the European Union that the problem of human trafficking across borders has increased globally and has become an organised criminal activity. In May 2015, the European Commission adopted an action plan to combat migrant smuggling, aimed at changing smuggling from high-income and low-risk activities to a high-risk and low-profit undertaking while ensuring full respect for and protection of the human rights of migrants. Migratory silencers often expose to risks of life and violence. The European Union is also travelling to strengthen the criminal framework for these crimes. All of this is reflected in the situation in the Republic of Slovenia, where as a country on one of the more burdened migration routes in recent years we have seen an increase in the problem of smuggling across borders. The Ministry of Justice draws attention to the statistics of accused adults for these crimes. This number was 9 in 2014 and 155 in 2018. In order to combat such crimes, it is necessary to increase the penalty, which, in accordance with the principle of general prevention, will reduce the motivation of potential perpetrators for the services of such offences. Therefore, we have adopted an amendment at the parent working body meeting, which deletes constitutionally controversial solutions and introduces only a penalty for smuggling of persons, comparable to the amount of the prison sentence that is at risk of a crime of smuggling of goods, where the penalty for smuggling is set at between three and 15 years of high value. As the Ministry of Justice, the State Prosecutor's Office and the Police also assess that the proposed amendment takes account of their comments and sets out more appropriately the level of the penalty at stake for the individual forms of the crime under consideration, we will, of course, support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u64	Your Honor! Fear of refugees, which began in 2015 in Slovenia when the country faced the first major arrival of refugees, and since then uninterrupted, has led to serious absurdities. If we look at the first – the position or actions of the so-called central governments before this government since 2016. The actions taken abroad by right-wing governments have been adopted by the so-called environment. The first measure was technical barriers, namely cutting wire and panel fences. It followed the legalization of additional repressive powers for the police and the military and all hunters, paralyzers, drones, thermovision cameras, facial recognition, air traffic control and the like. Once again, these were not the actions of some right-wing governments, these were the actions of the central governments, two, including the excessive tightening of asylum legislation in the previous term. We have received a police state surrounded by cutting wire, which, according to the information on the ground, serves violence and human rights violations. And the right hand continues to scream. Fears the catastrophe of the apocalyptic dimensions. But all the problems in the country are caused by refugees. Poor pensions, wages that do not allow decent survival, waiting types in health, housing crisis, energy poverty. They are trying to convince the public that this is not the fault of the policy that we are implementing in Slovenia, that we are adopting it in the National Assembly and that the Government is implementing it, but that it is the refugees who are responsible. Poor pensions are not supposed to be the result of measures aimed at reducing the rate of interest rates and robbing the pension allowance to the benefit of capital, nor are there any less social rights. The two-year quiet privatisation of public services and health care has nothing to do with waiting types and expensive homes for the elderly. Guilty as an outside enemy. On one occasion, they were Roma, on the other hand unemployed or recipients of social assistance, today they are refugees. This race is also joined by the National Council, which, according to the principle “I am my own, you’re the one who’s working successfully with the right. The goal is simple and clear – to prevent anyone from seeking and obtaining international protection in Slovenia, and even more than that, to open space to the right, so that they can continue their campaign against refugee propaganda. The fact that this is purely a matter of pirage already shows the fact that, for example, the State Council does not seem to have enough time to deal with proposals to address the causes of mass migration. The State Council has not even addressed the recommendations of the Left for the immediate cessation of Slovenia's participation in the war in Afghanistan, except to support us actively. It's easier to ride on a wave of hate and start populism. It would have been time for you all to acknowledge yourself together: migration and migrants are a fact. They have always happened, even mass, and they will in the future. If you want or want to limit them, you must first recognize the main causes for them: racial, religious, political persecution, war, hunger, extreme poverty, environmental and economic exhaustion. In Africa alone, conflicts are currently taking place in 30 countries, in Asia in 16, in the Middle East in seven. Together at this time, conflicts and wars are taking place in 69 countries around the world, including Afghanistan, Yemen, Pakistan, Somalia, Libya and Syria. In all of these environments, the army of the Republic of Slovenia also participates in the framework of the NATO Pact. Most of the refugees also come from these countries. If we add economic and environmental exhaustion, hunger and climate change, which are a direct product of unbridled capitalism, we get exactly what we have today. And that obviously doesn't interest any of you. We are, of course, opposed to the proposal of the State Council in the Left. And we're giving you well-intentioned advice. If you do not want to migrate, stop supporting and generating the reasons for their creation. The tightening of asylum legislation and the construction of migration walls will not prevent, but the current situation and the humanitarian disaster we are witnessing will certainly only deepen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. The proposal for amendments to the Penal Code, which we are considering today, has been proposed by the State Council in the legislative process. The main objective of the proposed amendments to the Code was to tighten and impose penalties for illegal border crossings. In the light of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the members of the Coalition for the Treatment of the Law on the Parental Labour Authority drafted an amendment, which was also adopted by the Justice Committee. The amendment adopted shall bring about the deletion of the proposed amendments to Article 308(1) of the Penal Code. We have thus abolished the provisions of incriminating the illegal border crossing and maintained the proposal for a longer prison sentence for smugglers serving illegal migration. The higher penalties for smugglers who illegally smuggle abroad, transport them, hide them or allow them to live illegally are the main purpose of the proposed amendments to the Penal Code that we are adopting today. For the form of a criminal offence referred to in Article 308(3), the proposal of the amended law retains an amendment to the increase in the sentence of imprisonment, but the proposed provision is amended by fixing the penalty at three to 10 years imprisonment. Since the same article of the Code provides for the penalty of imprisonment for other forms of criminal offence under this Article, the amount of the penalty should also be adjusted in paragraphs 5 and 6. With the amended proposal for a law, the prison sentence for the forms of the offence referred to in paragraph 5 shall be increased in the same manner as the penalty referred to in paragraph 3, since the text in force in both paragraphs has also provided for the same penalty. For the form of the offence referred to in paragraph 6, we propose that the penalty be set at between three and 15 years in prison. So far, this form of criminal offence has been punishable by a sentence of between one and eight years in prison. In recent years, we have been able to witness an increase in trafficking across borders, all of which is reflected in the state of Slovenia, as shown by statistics of accused adults for crimes under the paragraphs for which we propose to increase the sentence. On the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Local Self-Government last autumn, we were able to learn that the number of offences against which the border or the territory of the State was banned during last year, during the period January to October 2019, increased by 71 % compared to the previous year, according to 2018. The most significant 582% was the increase in the number of smuggling practices carried out within criminal groups. In our view, therefore, it is necessary to increase the penalty in order to combat such crimes, which, in accordance with the principle of general prevention, will reduce the motivation of potential perpetrators for criminal services. We will also allow the police to use covert investigation measures in this way, which, in our view, is essential for the successful prosecution of such crimes. With the amendments to the Penal Code, we will so drastically increase the prison sentences for smuggling illegal migrants, and a minimum sentence of at least three years will be laid down. Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal for amendments to the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Franz Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u68	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Council of State has submitted to us for consideration a proposal for a law amending the Penal Code. It is an amendment to Article 308 which defines as a criminal offence the crossing of the border or territory of the State as prohibited. The initial proposal provided for the sanction of immediate expulsion for the illegal crossing of the State border of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to the illegal overrun, a different way of entering the territory of the Republic of Slovenia was envisaged. This would extend the criminal zone to conduct that is not in conformity with the law. This was also pointed out by the Law-Legal Service and added that the proposal in this part was excessive. Such a defined entry into the territory of the State is inconsistent with the fundamental principles of criminal law, namely the principle of certainty, predictability and the principle of legality. In addition, the signs of the offence set out in the proposal shall be covered by the signs of the offence laid down in the Aliens Act. This is in total contravention of the constitutional principle of legal certainty, which is also based on the practice of the Constitutional Court. Such a proposal would also prevent individualisation, the treatment of perpetrators of crimes, as an immediate expulsion of a foreigner was envisaged. The applicable provisions of the Penal Code, however, only allow for the expulsion of a foreigner from the country as a foreign penalty. At the time of the initial proposal of the State Council, a number of concerns were raised about the non-compliance of the proposed provision with the Constitution, as also pointed out by the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Group of the Coalitions tabled an amendment to that article setting out a different approach. The amendments were accepted at the committee meeting. Of course, they were filed by the coalition. By supplementing the bill, the threat of imprisonment is now increasing, but it no longer interferes with the basic form of the criminal offence. This is a change to one single article, but it will not bring about the changes that the applicants want to make. This is a populism gesture that they want to show their efforts to regulate this area, and in practice this would not bring about the desired changes. In the Alenka Bratušek Group, we do not think that there would really be too much doubt as to whether the current European legislation is still adequate and effective enough to deal with the current situation. All these regulations have been adopted in a completely different situation than we have seen today. We are aware that, above all, there are major problems at local level due to illegal border crossings. However, it should be pointed out that the area of criminal law is extremely sensitive and any change should be adopted with a shaking hand. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice at which the proposal was addressed, the representative of the Ministry of Justice pointed out, inter alia, that the draft amendment of the Code of Penalties was under preparation and would also examine the relevance of the current 308th Article. Therefore, in the Group of the Party of Alenka Bratušek, we ask ourselves why we would rush for such an unsystemic change. In such important areas as criminal law, it is of utmost importance that experts also participate in the drafting of legislation. And it is more than obvious that there has not been a dialogue with the expert in the preparation of this proposal. Several representatives of the profession also made their opposition to such changes clear and loud at the meeting of the Committee, although they understand the extent of the problem of illegal state border crossings. In the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek, we believe that such addition to the Penal Code will in no way solve the problems facing our country due to illegal crossings of the state border. In order to amend legislation that will be effective in practice and also constitutionally compatible, it is necessary to take a holistic approach and therefore we will not support the proposed amendments to the Penal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable experts from the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues and the proposer! The proposal for amendments to the Penal Code, proposed by the National Council, will receive the full support of Members of Desus in the amended sentence for offences of smuggling of foreigners who do not have a permit to enter and reside in the Republic of Slovenia. The text of the updated proposal, which we have on the table today, is slightly altered in view of the basic text table. The amendments to the text adopted on the parent working body in the form of an amendment followed the recommendation and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the comments of the Supreme State Prosecutor and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The amended bill increases the sentence for those involved in smuggling migrants to Slovenia from the current to five years in prison to three to 10 years in prison. In the same way, we increase the penalty for those who assist in illegal immigration to Slovenia by deceiving the competent authorities. The proposal also increases the penalty for those who, in the case of both of those offences, obtain disproportionate wealth benefits or commit them in a criminal society, from the present one to eight years in prison, to three to 15 years in prison. The trend in the number of illegal border crossings over the last period in relation to the previous year has been considerable in decline. According to the police, in the first five months almost 26% of the illegal arrivals of the state border were less than in the previous year. Almost 40% of the infringements were dealt with within the country. The decline is mainly due to the situation with the new coronary virus. In recent times, Slovenian police have seen the growing trend of illegal border crossings, especially with our southern neighbour. As a responsible European country, which is still one of the most important entry points in the Schengen Group, we believe that we must respond appropriately to all security situations. The illegal migration carried out by foreign means, i.e. by smuggling, poses a particularly serious threat to the security situation both within the territory of the country where the act was committed and outside the wider geographical area, which the European Union represents to us. The rules of entry and residence in our country are clear. The lack of respect for Slovenian and European foreign legislation has some legal consequences. By increasing the penalties for this type of incriminating act, this proposal makes it clear, in particular, that the search and organisation of illegal routes and the transport across our borders and within our own country are not being paid. Silence is an act that is usually done in exchange for a particular asset. Of course, in the Desus Group, we believe that such acts are worthy of condemnation, so we agree that the penalties in force are more appropriate to tighten up, as only a sufficiently high punishment reaches its preventive, that is a dissuasive purpose. Our conviction in the sense of increasing the penalties for smugglers, according to our assessment, also excuses the comparability of the newly prescribed penalties with certain other crimes, such as the crime of enslavement and the crime of trafficking in human beings. Members of Desus will vote in favour of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Victory Jelinčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u72	The law was urgently needed. This change of law is good, in the right direction, but it is not permissible. Change is already needed. It is also necessary to amend the possibility afforded by Article 308(3) to assist in the commission of a criminal offence, or, as provided for in Article 308(5), to participate, they should also be more penalised. The fact is that NGOs, both Slovenian and foreign, are engaged in the transfer of migrants across the Croatian-Slovenian border, across Slovenia and from Slovenia to European countries. These people aren't being punished. However, we have seen that one of the political candidates is a social-democratic party, called ex-communists, loaded migrants up and down, and will probably not be punished. The various members of the various NGOs that the Slovenian National Party has accused themselves of having participated in the transfer of migrants to Slovenia and then, meaning that they are causing, knowingly causing a crime, the prosecution simply did not want to sanction them, all of which they have rejected. In short, we're a confused country that doesn't know what it wants. Now it's the first time this thing's been settled. I think it would also be good for the courts themselves to impose as much fines as possible on the perpetrators of such crimes. Many NGOs serve with this. And if he's serving, then he should pay when he catches them. In addition to being punished by imprisonment, they should also be punished financially. I think the time of expulsion should also be changed. Alien exile is now limited to one to five years, which is not enough. I think that foreigners caught in these crimes should be punished for life by expulsion from Slovenia. They no longer have access to Slovenia. They are already entering with bad intentions, for the purpose of abuse of social services, for the purpose of abuse of the social situation in Slovenia and then they trade in drugs, criminal acts and everything. We don't need people like that in our country, and we don't want them. If some of the so-called left - handed parties want them, take them home. Let them take them home, and when they steal everything they eat, they rape them, and then they wake up and say, "It's our fault." I think that we should also allow the police to use covert investigative measures, including criminal offences under Article 308 of the Penal Code. Now there's one interesting thing that happened when the media blew up the story, that they got one poor walker on the Italian border and the soldiers put him on the ground with guns, etc. He's here for a whole bunch of lies. It's about a man waiting for a shipment of migrants to take them on. And that's what our media is silent about. This is not important because it is not in line with this LGBT, left-wing, extreme left-wing and migrant policy pursued by some political parties. We will gladly support this amendment of the law and expect further changes and exacerbations on the points I have already mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 5th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism within the framework of an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to a representative of the Government or a representative. I don't see anyone. I don't think that's right, and I suggest you remind the government. We'll wait a while. Representative of the Government, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! You have before you the amendment of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, which transposes the provisions of the fifth European Directive 2018/843 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing. Slovenia has already received an official notice from the European Commission on 13 February 2020 due to the non-transfer of the so-called AML 5 Directive. The proposed law therefore focuses primarily on compliance with the acquis of the European Union, and some other shortcomings are also addressed. One major novelty is the introduction of a new category of debtors, which must implement measures to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. These are providers engaged in exchange services between virtual and fiat currencies and providers of custody wallets. For that category of debtors it is mandatory to register with the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent money laundering. Furthermore, those who deal in real estate or trade in works of art will only carry out new measures in cases where the transactions will exceed EUR 10 000. The provisions relating to the identification and description of the data in the register of actual owners are also supplemented. An automatic entry shall be provided for the entities subject to registration exemptions so far. The provisions on the release of a third party’s examination shall be supplemented by the possibility of alternative means of identification. For politically exposed persons, the Regulation will need to establish a list of precise indications of functions that are considered to be a visible public position in the Republic of Slovenia. Additional measures concerning high-risk countries are also being introduced. The provisions of the novel are based on the European acquis and form the basis for combating money laundering and terrorist financing. Respectful, taking into account the above, I propose that you adopt a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u75	Thank you very much. A supplementary explanation of the government proposal was presented by Polona Flerin, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 41st urgent meeting on 12 June this year, the Finance Committee considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the coalition groups tabled an amendment to two articles of the bill. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. In its supplementary explanation, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance explained that the draft law transposes the European Union Directive 2018/843 of 30 May 2018, on which the Republic of Slovenia has also received an official notice from the European Commission. It pointed out that the draft law complemented, inter alia, certain definitions of the terms and definitions of the debtors, adapted the provisions concerning the registration of data in the register of beneficial owners and introduced additional measures concerning high-risk countries. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stated that the service had drawn up a written opinion. It made a general comment to the service on the repetition of the text of the law already in force, thereby reducing the transparency of the amended text. She stressed that the proposed coalition amendments addressed the shortcomings arising from the opinion of the office. In particular, it highlighted the provision of Article 19 of the draft law which is problematic in terms of the protection of personal data, explaining that such a provision also contains the applicable law. In the debate, members and members of the Committee supported the regulation of virtual currencies and expressed the hope that the Office of the Republic of Slovenia will consistently exercise the powers conferred on it by law to prevent money laundering. The debate also drew attention to some of the content that is not regulated by the proposal for a law relating to the market for cryptocurrency. In this area, additional criteria should be defined, taxation should be properly regulated and caregiver providers should be treated in a comparable manner. The representative of the Ministry of Finance provided further clarifications on the concerns raised in the debate. It stressed that the scope of the cryptocurrency has not yet been regulated at the level of the European Union and therefore the proposal for a law focuses mainly on the implementation of existing directives. Once the area is also unified at European Union level, decisions will have to be taken at national level. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Articles 4 and 53 of the draft law and adopted both amendments. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended amended legislation has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc and by Ambassador Andrej Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u78	President, thank you for your word. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Money laundering is a practice of concealing the illicit origin of the proceeds of crime. The suspicious transactions related to money laundering in the EU amount to hundreds of billions of euros each year. Member States shall be responsible for the application and enforcement of EU rules on the prevention of money laundering through national legislation and for the prosecution of crimes related to it. Europol estimates the value of suspicious transactions in Europe to be around 1.3 per cent of the European Union's GDP. Despite extensive international cooperation and increasingly sophisticated EU legislation, the fight against money laundering remains a major challenge. The EU Anti-Money Laundering Directive has been in force since 1991 and has been updated four times in the last year of 2018, as its scope is growing over the years. This amendment is being considered because the Republic of Slovenia has received an official notice from the European Commission of 13 February 2020 for the non-notification of the provisions for the transposition of Directive 2018/843. Further delaying the transposition of the provisions into the Slovenian legal order could lead to difficult financial consequences for the country. The novel addresses some of the shortcomings detected by the Council of Europe's expert parent committee. The proposal complements, inter alia, certain definitions of the terms and definitions of the debtors, adapts the provisions concerning the registration of data in the register of beneficial owners and introduces additional measures with regard to highly risky countries. In the LMŠ Group, we hope that another law supplement will also help to prevent money laundering from being attempted by some visibly exposed politicians or political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u80	President, once again, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Limiting the global flows used by taxpayers and other criminals to carry out illegal transactions is a complex system whose main feature is a constant competition with the time, technology and imagination of those wishing to carry out prohibited transactions. Of course, the reason for them may be illegal sources of money or an illicit purpose of spending. In order to stay one step ahead of the villains in a related and globalised world, international harmonisation of regulations is the only way. In this area, the legal framework is largely left to the European Union, which by means of regulations and directives provides for the right vocabulary, procedures and rules to be followed by the authorities of the Member States. It is therefore essential for countries to maintain the coherence of the rules that apply throughout Europe and in most of the developed world. Of course, Slovenia does not dictate the European pace in preventing illegal transactions. Due to its smallness, it usually follows the European framework set out. It is important that, for example, the definitions of procedures and commitments across Europe are such that money flows can be traced everywhere. Of course, these days new technologies, such as cryptocurrency, are also used to conceal the origin of money and to use it, which is also the area most directly affected by the proposed legal changes. The urgency of addressing this bill is quite essential for Slovenia to avoid penalties for the late implementation of European legislation. This is, therefore, a threat to punishment, unfortunately one of the rare ways in which things move in our country, so we often face proposals for urgent harmonisation only in order to avoid European penalties. Unfortunately, such rapid harmonisation of legislation is very much in the financial field, which is a problem facing each government. Apparently, the problem is being transferred from government to government. We have before us a law whose solutions Slovenia should have adopted in 2018. It is not a matter of very complex changes, mainly the transfer of definitions and the definition of the debtors. As evidenced by the material, a more extensive public hearing was also carried out with companies and organisations operating in this area. Regrettably, as is understood from the responses of those affected by the change, the government has once again pursued the main objective of avoiding European punishment. It repeated the mistakes made by Slovenia from government to government and from year to year in such laws. Re-regulation of areas already regulated by European regulations and stricter rules than those relating to Directives are only two of the mistakes highlighted by the Legislative and Legal Service. Moreover, the comments made by the representatives of the affected economic sectors in the area of online banking, the cryptocurrency market and the wider, so-called fintech industry have made it clear in their communications that the proposal makes it possible not only to carry out illegal and suspicious transactions but also to unduly impede the development of fully legal and promising transactions, such as mobile wallets, online payments and so on. It is particularly difficult to understand that it does not listen to the representatives of the sectors, which have excellent conditions for development in Slovenia. Obviously, this government will also leave excessive bureaucracy a problem for all of us. By requiring service providers to require, for example, EMHOs, which is not known in other countries, or data on the place of birth, which is not a custom in international business practice, as it does not prevent illegal transactions, but merely bureaucraticly restricts the perspective of sectors in expanding their operations outside the borders of our small country, which is part of the great world. Since neither the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service nor the professional public's concerns with the amendments adopted by the Committee have been satisfied, in our opinion, we do not foresee support for the bill in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, chairman. What a lovely greeting to all present! Money laundering and financing of terrorism are problems of international dimension. The main obstacle to international efforts to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing is the uncoordinated legislation of individual countries in this area. Globalisation and the international nature of money laundering and terrorist financing therefore require the coherence of the legal rules of individual countries. Slovenia shall take into account the requirements and recommendations of international organisations in the drafting of the laws, thereby ensuring the consistency of domestic legal acts with the acts of the international community. The proposal to amend the law that we are considering in the National Assembly today specifically introduces the transposition of the European directives into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and also addresses the shortcomings and uncertainties identified by the Committee of Experts at the Council of Europe. If I mention only the essential solutions complemented by, inter alia, the proposal for a law, I would point out in particular the following: the addition of certain definitions of the terms and definitions of the debtors, the provisions on the registration of the data in the register of the beneficial owners and the introduction of additional measures concerning high-risk countries. The draft law takes into account the principles of the current regime for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, which means the transposition of international standards and European regulations into the Slovenian legal order, while also preserving the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia as a key principle the protection of its financial system against the consequences of both money laundering and terrorist financing. It is important that we work towards more effective control of the money laundering system, which has been being gradually built in the Republic of Slovenia for 25 years and which, with every amendment and addition to the legislation, improves and with the inspection powers exercised by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent money laundering, strengthens its commitment and thus strengthens it. Although the bill that we have before us today, in particular for the implementation of existing directives, is an important step in the protection of our country's financial system. However, when the area of prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing is unified at the level of the European Union as a whole, it will also respond appropriately to national levels. For all of this, the SMC Group will unanimously support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, since the area of prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing is particularly sensitive, so it must be properly regulated in order to protect the financial system of the Republic of Slovenia as much as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u84	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. The accession of the European Union and the Republic of Slovenia to the regulation of the cryptocurrency is insufficient and contradictory. Anticipatory because at EU level cryptocurrency is still not subject to any financial regulation and, on the other hand, the directive, which is also transposed into our legal order, already treats cryptocurrency as money, as regulation is being adopted to prevent money laundering. The Bank of Slovenia has therefore rightly warned that this contradiction – it is said that there is no financial regulation, but a anti-money laundering regulation – is being introduced – creates a mistaken notion that it is a system-wide regulated activity. This is not an obvious statement to the Government because this is the nature of the European directive. And if the government went beyond this regulation, it would also go beyond the purpose and purpose of the European directive. However, given that the cryptocurrency is part of our daily and quite widespread both at EU and Republic of Slovenia level, we can actively and up-to-date look for regulatory solutions for them. I'll show you where the flaws are. The shortcomings are that the problem of the cryptocurrency is not only the possibility of money laundering or terrorist financing, but, for the first time, that there is no need for operators on the market to meet the basic conditions for carrying out activities applicable to other financial institutions, for example, they do not need to obtain a licence, they do not need to meet the minimum capital requirements, they do not need to comply with or comply with consumer protection rules and so on. This does not change with this law either. On the other hand, the problem is tax. As pointed out by the Court of Auditors in the 2019 audit report, cryptocurrency is a tax avoidance tool. Nor do they save this law and directive. The profit from capital obtained from the sale of virtual currencies is not available for natural persons and remains untaxed. Then the technical shortcomings of this law are as follows. First, there is only regulation of custody wallets cryptocurrency, but on the Internet there are also carefree bills cryptocurrency. Which means that the user does not need to register with the right name, but the caregiver’s wallet only offers him a key storage service. In this part of the market, which is quite large and will likely be extended under regulation, regulation is without prejudice. The other problem is that it only touches the services of exchange between virtual, is called cryptocurrency, on the one hand, and the fiat currencies on the other, which means you are part of this regulation if you switch cryptocurrency into euro, say bitcoin into euro, but you will not fall under regulation if you change one cryptocurrency into another cryptocurrency. And this market is more extensive than that market that deals with exchange between virtual and fiat currencies. However, the third problem is that this regulation will not solve the issue of anonymity, as still much of the cryptocurrency transactions will remain anonymous because users of this transaction can also carry out these transactions without providers in the custody of the wallets. In short, the proposed government measures and regulation at European level remain weak. An up-to-date and active search for solutions is needed. Solutions to the issue of anonymity, the solution to the issue of money laundering and the solution to the issue of cryptocurrency taxation. Given the lack of regulation, we will not support it, but given that it represents a step forward and we will not oppose it. We will vote with abstention in the left hand side.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u86	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The new Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism is a harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union. Precisely a month before the new, 14th Slovenian government took an oath, Slovenia received an official notice from the European Commission due to the non-notification of the rules for the transposition of Directive 2018/843 of the European Parliament and of the Council. In fact, it is a matter of amending Directive 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which is the main legal instrument in preventing the use of the Union's financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing. That Directive, i.e. 2015, for which the deadline for transposition was 26 June 2017, lays down an effective and comprehensive legal framework for the treatment of the collection of funds or assets for terrorist purposes by requiring Member States to recognise, understand and mitigate the risks associated with money laundering and terrorist financing. By 2016, Slovenia, as one of the first European countries, had transposed the said Directive into its legal order, namely Directive 2015/849 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing by adopting the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. In order to ensure effective supervision, AJPES established a register of beneficial owners in December 2017, in cooperation with the Office of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to prevent money laundering. In addition to Slovenia, this year a register of actual owners was established by four other Member States, namely Denmark, France, Germany and the United Kingdom. Colleagues and colleagues! Terrorist attacks increasingly reveal emerging trends, particularly in the way terrorist ways finance and run their activities. Some modern technology services are becoming increasingly popular as alternative financial systems remain outside the scope of Union law and exploit exemptions from legal requirements that may no longer be justified. In order to follow emerging trends, further measures should be taken to ensure greater transparency of financial transactions, economic and other legal entities and funds and legal arrangements that have a similar structure or function as funds in order to improve the existing preventive framework and to combat terrorist financing more effectively. It should be noted that the measures taken should be proportionate to the risks. Moreover, the United Nations, Interpol and Europol report on the increasing convergence of organised crime and terrorism, the link between organised crime and terrorism and the link between criminal and terrorist groups that increasingly threaten the security of the Union. Preventing the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing is an integral part of the European strategy to tackle this threat. Therefore, Directive 2018/843 was adopted by the European Parliament and the Council and updated the original directive governing the system for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. In the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats we estimate that the solutions brought by the novels of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism are appropriate, so this is an appropriate implementation of the European Directive and that we will support the amendment of the law by Members of New Slovenia. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u88	Your Honor! With the amendment to our legal order, we are once again implementing the European Directive because the European Commission has assessed the transpositions so far as to be inadequate. Emphasis is placed on the definition of terms, definition of debtors, provisions on registers of beneficial owners and the introduction of additional measures concerning high-risk countries. In the SAB Group, it is recalled that the directive will still not be properly transposed by the adoption of the amendment. In particular, there are no provisions in the paper relating to payment services for the issue of electronic money cryptocurrency, so today we are missing the Payment Services Act, electronic money services and payment systems to which the missing Directives would be transposed. We must be aware that our country has already received an official reminder from the European Commission due to the inadequate transposition of the directive and is also at risk of financial penalties due to delay. In Slovenia we need more effective control over the money laundering system. Although the system has been built in Slovenia for 25 years, of course it also takes into account every single act adopted at European Union level. In the SAB Group, we believe that we have not yet achieved such a degree of control in Slovenia that we could be satisfied with. The above shows a number of money laundering affairs that have not yet received their epilogue. We recall a loan worth nearly half a million, which today's ruling SDS enabled Dijan Djudžić, who is supposed to have cancelled her transaction accounts, allegedly due to difficulties in explaining the origin of the money. However, we cannot ignore the fact that the ruling party in the Iranian money laundering affair has called on all responsible persons to resign from political, public and high official functions. We were recently informed of a new money laundering affair being investigated by the Macedonian law enforcement authorities. They suspect that the money laundering of the government of Orban through Slovenia is a difficult advertising contract for 3 million. Any amendment and addition to legislation improves, for example, due to the inspection powers exercised by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent money laundering over the debtors. Therefore, the SAB Group expresses its support for the law. All the countries of this world do not have the same legislation and will never have it. Only a change of legislation will not eradicate money launderers; values need to be changed in order to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The money launderer is in the global financial world as much as you want. The problem of financial business is that the border between legitimate transactions and other types of business is not clear. These are transactions that are by definition imprecise, so many can be believed to be located beyond the law. The introduction of Directive 2018/843 is important as this amends the 2015 Directive, which is the main instrument in preventing the use and misuse of the European Union financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing. By implementing this Directive, money laundering prevention measures also extend to virtual currencies and fiat currencies. The competent authorities must be able to monitor the use of virtual currencies, including the need to cover all their possible uses, as they may potentially represent resources to finance terrorist activities. The law introduces a register of providers of exchange services between virtual and fiat currencies and guardian currency providers. The registrar’s designer and maintenance is the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. Business events and transactions involving third countries identified as high-risk countries need to be restricted and further monitored and the law complements the provisions on the implementation of an in-depth review in cases of transactions with those countries. The main objective of the amendments under consideration is to ensure greater transparency of financial transactions carried out by economic and other legal entities. Solutions are envisaged to prevent the transfer of money to finance terrorist activities into the financial system of the European Union. The register of actual owners plays a special role in this. In summary, this is the database established in January 2018. It collects data on actual owners in order to ensure the transparency of the ownership structures of business entities and to prevent the abuse of business entities for money laundering and terrorist financing. To a greater extent than so far, this can be ensured if all existing exceptions to the registration are removed. The proposal for legal amendments removes existing exceptions to the entry of effective owners for independent entrepreneurs, individuals who carry out their own activities, single companies with limited liability and for direct and indirect budgetary users. For all of the above, the registry administrator will automatically execute the first entry. The registration obligation in the register shall also extend to funds and similar status-law arrangements, which have a specific weight. The link between the registers of real fund owners and the linkage of similar legal arrangements of the Member States of the European Union will make it possible to have better access to this information. In this way, it will also ensure the possibility of preventing multiple registrations of the same funds in different Union countries. Ladies and gentlemen! Those who want to do such transactions have found that this can be done well in banks where it is a relatively well-managed banking area, where it is a technically sound bank and where supervisory mechanisms simply do not work as they should. Slovenia is no special exception. The Directive should be transposed into our legal system by 10 January 2020. We haven't done that yet. It is about improving and completing control mechanisms based on past experience, so it is right to do so. In doing so, it is necessary to know that all of this will only make sense if the State and internal control mechanisms actually carry out their tasks of monitoring compliance with legal standards. Members of the Desus Group will support the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism for the sake of all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Suzanne Leup Šimenka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. Following an urgent procedure, the Government has tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorism. The urgent procedure is justifiable as Slovenia has already received an official notice from the European Commission in February because of the failure to transpose the Directive of the European Parliament into the Slovenian legal order. The proposal to amend the law thus fully refers to the European Directive and constitutes a common ground in the fight against money laundering and financing of terrorism in the European Union's internal market. Slovenia will discuss progress resulting from the implementation of the directive at the next Moneyval meeting at the end of 2020. The implementation report needs to be sent already this month, which is June 2020. The following solutions will be transferred to the Slovenian legal order. The definitions of individual terms such as electronic money, virtual currency, long-distance payment transaction and so on are complemented. Adequate definition of the debtors involved in the exchange services between virtual currencies, complementing the definition of taxpayers in the field of tax advice and trade in artistic works, complementing the provisions on the implementation of the national risk assessment, adapting the provisions relating to electronic money, reviewing the customer by means of electronic identification, automatic entry into the register of beneficial owners, supplementing the provisions on the treatment of unusual transactions, supplementing the provisions on the implementation of the review in accounting relations, supplementing the provisions on the review of links with high-risk third countries, banning the use of anonymous products on safes, adapting the implementation of group policies, introducing additional measures with high-risk countries, extending the possibility of cooperation between supervisory authorities, supplementing the provisions on offences and could also include. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will, of course, support the proposed amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the adjournment of the 5th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on road transport rules within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 52 Members and Members with the first signed by Mojca Žnidarič. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mateja Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u94	Your Honor! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Rules Act submitted by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Mojca Žnidarič to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. In their supplementary explanation, on behalf of the applicant, MEPs Mojc Žnidarič and Matej Udovč stressed that, by means of a proposal for a law, it would like voluntary firefighting companies, sports and cultural societies and other non-profit organisations to enable the transport of their youngest members without administrative restrictions, which would only cause unnecessary high costs. The proposal also seeks to achieve certain exceptions to the regulation of the conditions for the equipment of vehicles for the carriage of a group of five or more children of an extended family at the level of the line and on the side line to the third knee listed and for the carriage of a total of not more than eight by the company, association or establishment if the transport does not constitute the exercise of a profitable activity. From the point of view of ensuring transport safety, it is necessary to lay down at legal level the technical conditions for the transport of a group of up to eight children carried out by companies, associations and institutions, because it is now regulated at a sub-legislative level. Špela Maček Gustin, a representative of the Law and Law Service, explained that as a result of interference with the definition of a group of children so far, the rules on safety standards and these transports could be violated, which could lead to an unequal regime for essentially an enca situation. It can be concluded from the explanation that the proposal for a law is not the final version of the regulation, but that the conditions for the carriage of children should only be laid down in the legislative procedure in cooperation with the competent department of competence and with the remaining stakeholders, and that the proposed text of Article 90a represents only an extension to the final solution. It pointed out that such an approach is not known in the current practice of legislative procedures, which makes it difficult to assess this proposal from the point of view of the competence of the Legislative and Legal Service. Aleš Mihelič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, pointed out that the Ministry of Infrastructure is supported by the ideas of the proposer, but according to the content of the solutions proposed, they believe that it would be more appropriate to regulate these contents in a law setting out the mandatory use of tachograph in the transport of a group of children. The representative of the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Dušan Strnad, stressed that the Commission supports the bill, following the warning of many NGOs that the applicable strict legal conditions for vehicles and drivers for the transport of a group of children make their work difficult and entail unnecessary additional costs, while at the same time eliminating certain conditions would not have a significant impact on the reduction of traffic safety. The debate mainly expressed support for the bill. They support, inter alia, the draft law in the New Slovenia Group of Members, as they believe it represents lower costs for parents and NGOs to transport children on leisure activities and does not reduce the safety of children in transport. The SDS Group stressed that the proposal for legislation allows companies and NGOs to move children to leisure activities faster, easier and cheaper. The current legislation in this area is quite inanimate, so we need to find a more reasonable solution as soon as possible. They also expressed support for the bill in the Marjan Šarc Group and also pointed out that this issue should be addressed in an integrated manner. On the contrary, in the Group of Ambassadors, Levica highlighted in particular the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service on the issue of equality before the law and the issue of security standards. In their view, the issue of equality before the law can be raised, because in both cases, when it comes to commercial and non-commercial transport, it is actually a comparable group of children. After discussion, the Committee adopted its amendments to Articles 1 and 2 and then, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Mateja Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. The existing legislation, which we are amending today, has introduced into the Slovenian legal order a Regulation on the conditions to be met by vehicles and drivers of vehicles used by groups of children. The Regulation was adopted as a result of a traffic accident in 1998, when five young athletes died in a van near the Neck. However, the rulebook itself did not pass constitutional judgment. In 2003, the Constitutional Court decided that the rule was inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia because it did not have a legal basis in law. Therefore, in 2004 the National Assembly adopted a new Road Traffic Safety Act, which included provisions on the transport of a group of children. After 2010, however, matter on road safety was regulated by as many as four laws, namely the Road Traffic Rules Act, the Roads Act, the Motor Vehicles Act and the Drivers Act. However, the real competence for regulating transport legislation has been transferred to the Ministry of Infrastructure. The topic that we are considering today has therefore been regulated since 2010 in two laws, the Road Traffic Rules Act and the Motor Vehicle Act, and it is also defined in the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers, and on recording equipment in road transport and in the regulations of these laws. This approach and the enrichment of the normative regulation of this area is causing great confusion and impreciseness of this matter. This is precisely what co-proposer Mojco Žnidarič and I are well aware of, and we have prepared a proposal for amendments to the law that will regulate the transport of a group of children as in 2004, re-order in one roof law, namely the Road Traffic Rules Act. In order for this matter to be regulated in one place, it was also necessary to include in the law the matter contained in the sub-legislative acts. The text of Article 90a therefore contains, with the exception of certain exceptions such as tachographs, all the requirements of the Regulation on Parts and Equipment of Vehicles. As proponents, we have incorporated the first paragraph of Article 64 of that Regulation into the law that this material is regulated by one roofing law. This is, after all, also our contribution to the de-de-merocracy and transparency of the legal rules in the state administration. In preparing the novel, we were aware that, in order to achieve the objectives, it would be easier to change only the definitions of a group of children, so that up to a maximum of eight children would be completely eliminated by the prescribed safety conditions for vehicles and drivers. Of course, we couldn't agree to such an approach. In our dialogue with all stakeholders, we wanted to achieve the elimination of the most pointless provisions, such as mandatory installation and use of tachographs and twice a year technical examinations carried out. The other changes are determined on the basis of arrangements or discussions in the National Assembly, and this is what we have done. To take a decision at the plenary session of the National Assembly, we have drawn up a proposal by the amendments, with which we have listened to the warnings in the debate on the home working body of the National Assembly. These concerned, in particular, the prescribed marking of vehicles and the equal legal treatment of the transport of a group of children. Thus, the proposed solution also eliminates the unequal arrangements for the transport of the group of children that has been in force so far. The Ministry of Infrastructure has also advocated maintaining the same safety conditions for all the transport of a group of children, as laid down by the Road Traffic Rules and Motor Vehicles Act, together with the regulations of law. We agreed, however, that non-legislative matter should not be transferred to the legal level by virtue of the new article 90a, as originally proposed. The latter will therefore continue to be regulated at the level of the sub-legislative rules, with the exception of removal of tachographs and technical checks. The Ministry has ensured that the size and characteristics of the marking of the vehicle carrying the group of children will be determined by amending the Regulation on Parts and Equipment of Vehicles. Since the form of marking is not a matter of European Union rules, it will be transferable and adapted to the type of vehicle. The amendment of the sub-legislative regulation is already included in the normative part of the programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020. The proposed amendments constitute a reasonable compromise to which the proposer can be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Representatives of the Government are on their way, so I propose that we go to a presentation on the positions of the Group. However, the representatives of the Government will certainly have the opportunity to give their views in the context of the debate on the amendments. The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats. Soniboy the Duke, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u98	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellows! The applicants decided to submit the law on the basis of calls from ski, jumping, football and other sports companies as well as firefighting companies. The transport of children carried out for their own purposes by those companies shall be equal to professional transport activities. As a result, companies have considerable difficulties in carrying out this activity within the functioning of society. In order to address the problem faced by the companies, the law's proponents foresee that the transport of children for companies and other non-profit organisations should be carried out without administrative restrictions which give these companies and organisations unnecessary costs and obstacles. The solutions proposed are aimed at not having to take the company vehicles twice a year for a technical inspection, and these vehicles would no longer need a tachograph during the mandatory equipment. The law was supported by Kranj Sports Association, the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, the Association of Sports Unions and the competent commission of the State Council. Representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure had some comments and reservations, as well as a section of bus carriers and a section for transport at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia expressed concerns and reservations about the proposed solutions. We welcome the solutions proposed by the Group of Social Democrats because we believe that certain rules and current restrictions and rules have been written senselessly or impractically. We are aware that stricter rules and laws have regulated this area in this way, as a result, also because of the worse traffic accident that has occurred in the past, but we believe that so-called life solutions are necessary. In our parliamentary group, we have concerns about who will drive the children or what condition the driver will drive that day. Above all, we would like to draw attention to and appeal to all those who will transport our children in the future so that, at the time they are in charge of the transport of children, they do not participate in activities or actively participate in activities, as there could be physical exhaustion of individuals. Whether the person in charge of that day for the carriage of children has only one obligation or role, that is the role of the driver. We will support the proposed changes in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We have a very short amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act. The proposers want to achieve certain exceptions by amending the conditions for vehicle equipment for a group of five or more children of the extended family and for a group of up to eight children carried by the company or association of societies or institutions in accordance with the purpose of their establishment. As regards the first group of road users mentioned, it should be noted that so far the exemption for transport has only been limited to the same family and that the change extends to other family members or relatives. Simply put, one of the parents will be able to transport in his vehicle a group of his or her brother or sister's children, without having to meet certain conditions, such as tachograph equipment, and without having to perform a technical inspection twice a year. We also apply an exception to the transport of groups of children managed by societies or non-governmental organisations in the framework of their basic activities. The bill was created on the basis of the long-standing efforts of the Slovenian Association of Fire and the Olympic Association of Sports Unions. For the last years, it has been recalled that the requirements of transport carried out by ski, football, handball, including firefighting and cultural companies for their needs are almost equivalent to the economic activity of road transport and professional drivers. The current conditions are inanimate and the novelty brings solutions to facilitate the functioning of societies in the implementation of children and youth programmes. The Ministry of Infrastructure has advocated maintaining the same safety conditions for all transport of groups of children as provided for by laws governing road traffic rules and motor vehicles. Given that the conditions and markings of the motor vehicle carried by the group of children are further defined by the Motor Vehicle Act and by both laws based on the regulations of the under-law, we have decided that we are not transferring sub-marriage to the legal level as originally proposed. As regards the deletion of the use of the tachograph, we would like to point out that the European legislation itself, Article 3 of Regulation 561/2006 EC, lays down exceptions to the use of the tachograph. Thus, the Regulation does not apply to the carriage of fire-fighting vehicles other than in Slovenia only if they carry children. The tachograph is a road transport control device. Under the European directives governing this area, all vehicles with a total permissible mass of more than 3.5 tonnes or more than nine seats registered after 1 May 2006 shall have a digital tachograph installed and used. The tachograph is primarily intended for monitoring the working time and rest of professional drivers in road transport. Both with regard to tachographs and technical checks, European Union legislation on the transport of a group of children does not prescribe any requirements. We have also obtained a comparative review of the specific conditions for the transport of children by road in neighbouring countries in the Research and Documentation Sector of the National Assembly. After reviewing the arrangements in all four countries under consideration, we can find that in any of the neighbouring countries there is no need to install a tachograph for the transport of a group of children, nor do we need to follow a specific ban on drivers not to participate, for example, in the exercise of children. Our purpose, as well as the aim of the Slovenian Association of Firefighters and the Olympic Committee, is by no means limited to ensuring the safety of children, but to remove some of the conditions that have emerged as an immediate policy response to a traffic accident 22 years ago and which have been shown to have no significant impact on security, otherwise other EU countries would have followed. At the same time, awareness and responsible behaviour in transport are essential. No boards, tachographs or additional technical checks will help if we sit drunk, scattered, unaccounted for and irresponsible behind the wheel. In the SMC Group, we will, of course, support the proposal for amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u102	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the past, we have always stood by those who have been in favour of increasing and ensuring traffic safety in the Republic of Slovenia, or for drivers who have prepared papers for this purpose. In particular, this applies to children. Therefore, in the past, we have pointed out in Levica that the circle of liabilities for the use of tachographs is to be extended. The purpose of our efforts was twofold. To argue this, it is first of all to respect the labour rights of professional drivers, in particular respect for working time and the right to rest, and secondly most importantly to increase road safety, because professional drivers who are sleepy and tired pose a danger to themselves, to the passengers they drive, and finally to all other road users. And transport as a non-profit activity is also carried out by a van of primary schools, kindergartens, various cultural, sports associations that drive children on longer tours. If on a longer journey and if more transports are to be carried out, the driver does not have a guaranteed rest and that this can be found on the tachograph, he drives himself, especially those who drive them, and other participants in the traffic into serious danger. Therefore, a very important police warning, which is available to everyone on their website, warns that children in road traffic are among the most vulnerable participants and by the number of deaths especially when driving as passengers in motor vehicles. And vehicles for the transport of a group of children, for example to and from school, on school trips, excursions, training and so on, must therefore meet the necessary conditions for transport safety, which is undoubtedly a tachograph in Slovenia. The tachograph is not an administrative obstacle, it is an element by which we provide safe driving, it is said, also the right to life or to bring those who drive unharmed. And what we are getting today and what we are following is, in fact, the deregulation of the driver's profession. The driver of a child may be anyone who has an exam. In fact, the release of road safety measures is directed in one direction to reduce road safety in Slovenia. In particular, when we look at how the proponents, respected by the proponents, have resolved the dilemma of the unequal position of profitable and non-profit drivers so that the tachographs are not regarded as non-profit and the profiteers would be regarded as profitable. What did they do? Why would a tachograph be required to be profitable and not for non-profit activity? Today, by means of a regular meeting of the National Assembly, the proposed amendments resolve this law by proposing simple tachograph obligations for all groups of children with a van. Thus, a profitable and non-profit activity or a van that drives children is equivalent to that of GoOptija, which drives passengers by airports across Europe or near Slovenia. In short, it does not matter what condition this driver is in, whether he is suitable for safe driving, for the safe provision of the services in which the children are involved. It is important that the conditions for the operation of transport activities be as relaxed as possible and that children are used here exclusively and solely for an excuse. Once again, in the opinion of the Left, the amendment proposed here certainly does not increase traffic safety, especially for children, but exacerbates it. We do not agree with such a proposal for this amendment and amendments to the law in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The positions of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats will be presented by Michael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u104	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Rules Act amends certain non-life provisions of the existing Road Traffic Rules Act which regulate the field of road transport of children. The bill, following the long-standing warnings from the Slovenian Association and the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, refers to the issue of strict conditions and rules to be met by vehicles and drivers driving a group of pre-school or primary school children to their leisure and activities, within non-profit organisations such as voluntary firefighting, sports and cultural societies. In particular, the mandatory equipment of tachograph vehicles, the technical inspection of the vehicle twice a year and the condition that the driver on the working day on which he carries the group of children shall not perform any other part which may affect his ability to drive safely. Thus, vehicles and drivers, such as children's parents, firefighters, trainers, are equal to professional transport activities and professional drivers, making it very difficult to transport a group of children within societies and increases their costs unnecessarily. With a view to reducing transport costs for parents and non-governmental organisations for the transport of children to leisure activities, a proposal for a law proposes certain exceptions to the regulation of the conditions for the equipment of vehicles for the transport of a group of five or more children of the extended family and for the transport of a group of not more than eight children carried by the company or association if the transport does not constitute a gainful activity. This would ensure that one of the parents in his vehicle could carry a larger group of his or her brothers and sisters’ children, without the need for his or her vehicle to be equipped with a tachograph and a technical check twice a year. Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will support the proposal of the law, as in the spirit of common sense it follows the warnings of NGOs that take care of various leisure activities for preschool and primary school children, in particular in the field of firefighting, sport and culture. We are also convinced in New Slovenia that the removal of these proposals will not have a significant impact on the reduction of traffic safety. In doing so, we are rightly asked why parents can take their children, for example, to a sports competition with their vehicles, for which the legislation does not require a mandatory tachograph installation or a technical examination twice a year, and if they take their brothers' children along with their children, their vehicle should be equipped with a tachograph. The proposed solutions certainly contribute to the de-de-barcation and consequently to the reduction of the costs of NGOs as well as municipal budgets, which are an important source of the operation of firefighting, sports and cultural societies. As has already been said, Members of New Slovenia will support the amendments tabled and also the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u106	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Government, fellow Members and Members! Today we are considering a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Road Traffic Rules Act. The proposal concerns the conditions and rules to be met by vehicles and drivers within non-profit organisations carrying pre-school and primary school children. The substance of the proposed amendments is the removal of administrative burdens imposed on non-profit organisations by additional costs and restrictions. The definition of a group of children who are transported by a natural or legal person in connection with the exercise of an activity shall be changed. In particular, they wish to exclude the mandatory use of the tachograph, the obligation to carry out the technical inspection twice a year, and the condition that the driver must not perform any other work that could affect his ability to manage the vehicle safely. It is true that such a solution would facilitate the functioning of societies and save them quite a few costs, but we must not forget the safety of children, which in these changes raises great questions. The function of monitoring driving methods, such as recording speeds, is extremely important for research into the causes of a possible traffic accident. The actual tachograph costs for each vehicle and two drivers amount to around EUR 2 000 500, because during the average lifetime of a vehicle there are about EUR 20 per month. I wonder if such a monthly cost could be the counterweight of the safety of children in road traffic. In the SAB, road safety is strongly placed first, especially when it comes to child safety. Therefore, we have quite a few concerns about the proposed changes that reduce the standard of child transport safety. For we wonder who and how he will then identify the causes of any accidents if they occur. In doing so, it is not appropriate to refer to statistics. The stricter rules in this area and the mandatory use of tachographs were introduced into our legal order precisely because of the tragic traffic accident in Gorenje in 1998, when the driver of the van with young ski jumpers took a nap for a moment and plunged into the opposite lane. Children were among the fatalities. Although 22 years have passed since then, this cannot be an excuse to loosen road traffic rules. Every death victim on the road is too much, so let's look at the vision of nothing. In the SAB Group, we are in favour of solutions that remove restrictions and facilitate the operation of non-profit organisations, but never and never at all. Therefore, in the case of concrete amendments, we cannot escape the concerns that the adoption of such solutions could endanger the safety of children in the transport of leisure activities. We believe it is important to maintain the highest level of standards that we have achieved in legislation in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Rules Act, signed by as many as 52 MEPs and members of the National Assembly and adopted without a vote on the home committee. I believe that we all agree that in road transport it is necessary to strive for the safety of all stakeholders, especially our youngest ones, according to our children. The responsibility for regulating transport regulations must thus be at the highest possible level. Amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Rules Act relate to the carriage of a group of children for personal needs and the strict conditions to be met by drivers and vehicles in this regard. It therefore concerns the transport of a group of pre-school and school children to leisure activities in various voluntary societies, both firefighting, sports, cultural and other non-profit organisations. The proposal for a new law seeks to ensure that these companies and organisations can carry out the transport of children without restrictions of administrative nature and which, after all, cause unnecessary high costs. It is right that legislation is consistent in this area, but it is still necessary to look at it from the perspective of life. This opinion is supported by both the Slovenian Association of Fire and the Slovenian Olympic Committees, which would facilitate and support the functioning of societies in the implementation of various programmes for children and youth. Children through various leisure activities develop their own personal, social, and physical and mental activity. Associating, discipline, and team spirit are important factors for any individual on the path of growing up. Spending free time in the future is beneficial and it is therefore welcome to approach life-saving solutions that will reduce costs for both parents and NGOs, which contribute to this by assuming that transport security is maintained at the same or even higher level. During the legislative process, the coalition members of the group also listened closely to the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Ministry of Infrastructure and tabled additional amendments to address the issue of inequalities between the two groups of children and to regulate the content accordingly in the rules concerning the exclusion of the use of tachograph and technical proposals several times a year. In the Desus Group, we will therefore support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Rules Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. I see that he is not here, so the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will be presented to us by Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u110	Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! President, thank you for your word. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Rules Act concerning the organised transport of children. Signed Members propose changes in the transport of children to their leisurely interest activities, which are now subject to strict rules applicable to the transport of pupils in schools. It is likely that all who so far have not been aware of the strictness of these rules. In general, the rules in force have often been violated, sometimes because of ignorance, sometimes because of the non-life measure in force since the amendment of the Act in 1998. Let us see how this has been in practice since that year. Each motor vehicle used for the transport of a group of children, for example to a football game in a guest club, must have a tachograph or recording equipment according to the provisions of the Road Traffic Rules Act, and the driver must have experience proving by means of a certificate that he must carry while driving. In addition, the driver shall not perform any other work on a working day which may affect his ability to carry out his vehicle effectively. As a result, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we find that societies, especially sports and firefighters, as well as many others, as they state themselves, have a lot of problems with the group transport of their younger members. In addition, the law in force greatly impedes the transport of a group of children carried out by parents, since they must not carry foreign children. There is also confusion in marriage in the terminology of underage children. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party therefore believe that after 22 years of this law, which was passed after the traffic accident in Naklem, when six skiers died, it is time to put an end to these strict measures. This is based on a shared opinion in explanation of the proposal to amend the law that vehicle safety and road safety have changed considerably since then. We also agree that the prescribed measures are non-life and a major obstacle. It is also true that, in comparable countries in Europe and elsewhere, such rigorous legal provisions are neither known nor required by European Union legislation. We have calculated that only Slovenian fire companies should have equipped all the children's transport vans, tachographs, memory cards and installation with some less than a million and a half euros under the applicable rules. In addition, we would still have a good half million euros of annual costs with this device, including a two-year technical review. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party were hard to expect from the proposal of this law, mainly by firefighters, sports, cultural and other associations or non-profit NGOs. Of course we'll confirm it. We also confirmed it at first reading at the Infrastructure Committee, and the draft amendments were confirmed by the State Council and the Government, or the Ministry of Infrastructure. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that following this example of demobilization, assistance to non-governmental organisations, lowering their costs and consequently the municipal budgets should be continued under other legislation, which the Government has already announced and we warmly welcome. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that this will make it urgently necessary, difficult to change the expected change to societies or non-governmental organisations and parents of children, allowing faster, easier and cheaper transport of children to leisure activities. We are also convinced that this welcome change will not reduce traffic safety, as one condition is that a driver driving a group of children has a valid driving licence for at least 3 years, and that the vehicle must also be equipped with an operating ABS system, hydraulic or electric steering system or steering wheel, in all seats it must have safety belts and head restraints, which is now almost entirely normal. The additional amendments tabled by the coalition and amendments and additions to the Law on Road Traffic Rules with new legal provisions for the transport of a group of children will be fully supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Rudy Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! We are engaged in changes to the law, which obviously have very broad support between us Members and Members, and also have very broad support between different societies and organisations. It is true, however, that I did not see any great enthusiasm among road safety experts, nor did many of them ask what these changes meant. And what, then, should they weigh in our decision? Given the situation of practice in everyday life, I think it will not be too much to argue that, on the one hand, these changes will not improve traffic safety, but it is true that, on the other hand, I almost hope to say, we will not make it worse. Since so far laid down by this law in practice, ten years of practice, it has never quite come to life. If we ask societies and organisations how they carry out these transports, they will most of them whisper to you so much that they somehow find themselves or they will, not all of them, but on the other hand, that means they go through the law. Here and there, someone pays a fine to know that we have this legal arrangement, that it is lifeless and difficult to carry out, and we all know it. Therefore, in our view, this practical aspect is weighed in the decision-making process. If we have a legal provision that does not live or give what is expected of him in everyday life, not because the citizens do not want to follow it, but because they simply cannot. This is true in many other areas, but it is true that in the case of the rules on the transport of children, this is a very sensitive issue. I also believe that all those who carry out these transports of our children are doing so with the greatest degree of responsibility. Today, what we install, namely, mandatory ABS or seats, seat cushions and service steering wheel, this is not some safety measure, these are things that have been practically self-involved for many years in vehicles. Therefore, experts in auto-motive connection naturally point out that these state-of-the-art security devices must be installed in modern cars. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we will support the proposed changes. However, honourable Members, when accepting these changes, let us not have before our eyes the mere joy of firefighters, athletes, culturers and others as our electorate, that we have saved them something. Let us bear in mind that we will be persistent and will raise our hand even when this is necessary and when they need to be adequately co-financed so that, on the other hand, they can transport our children with safer, better equipped vehicles in the future. And if we demand responsibility from them, then we will make it possible for them to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on Articles and the amendments tabled to Articles 1 and 2 for a new Article 2.a and to the title Final provision. The amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus groups to Article 1 is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Article 2(2), to Article 2a and to the heading Final provision, and we will therefore discuss them together. I therefore put to the debate paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, the new Article 2a and the title of the Final provision and the four amendments of the SDS, SMC, New Slovenia and Desus Group. Anybody want to talk? Representative of the proposer, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I will start by saying this because, from the discussions of the various parliamentary groups, I have seen perhaps some of the irregularities cited by some. To ensure that the public is not confused, I would like to say that carriers carrying out various vans of persons and goods, such as GoOpta, do not need to have tachographs installed today. They also do not need to carry out technical inspections twice a year today. This does not mean that they do not fall under the control of inspection services which supervise economic activity and the regulation of working time. Therefore, legal persons engaged in economic activities cannot be compared with the transport of passengers in NGOs, such as firefighters, cultural and various sports companies or others. In particular, we cannot compare these legal persons with the transport of passengers carried out within extended families. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Rules Act follows the long-standing warnings of the Firefighters Association of Slovenia and the Olympic Committee of Slovenia regarding the strict conditions and rules to be met by vehicles and drivers driving a group of pre-school or primary school children to their leisurely interest activities within non-profit organisations. The problem is the mandatory equipment of vehicles with tachographs and technical checks at least twice a year and the condition that the driver on the working day on which he carries the group of children must not perform any other work which could affect his ability to carry out the vehicle safely, which is an example of driving or participating in sports exercises. It also eliminates the unequal treatment of the transport of a group of children of the immediate family. According to the new proposal, certain members of the extended family, such as aunts, uncles, grandparents, cousins, etc., will also be able to carry out the transport of a group of children in addition to the immediate family. As I have already announced in the preliminary implementation, we have prepared amendments for the meeting of the National Assembly, in which we have taken into account warnings and proposals for the consideration of the proposal in the home working body. Thus, the text referred to in Article 1 of the original proposal is deleted so that a group of up to eight children, who are transported for personal or non-commercial or non-profit purposes by a natural or legal person in connection with the exercise of their activities, is not considered to be a group of children. In this way, we would have over-declared the safety conditions for the transport of the group of children. It is also appropriate to follow the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service, which points out that there is no prescribed method of marking a vehicle carrying children during technical conditions. The Ministry of Infrastructure has also advocated maintaining the same safety conditions for all the transport of a group of children as provided for by the Road Traffic Rules and Motor Vehicles Act. Since the conditions and markings of the motor vehicle with which the group of children is transported are further defined by the Motor Vehicle Act, together with the regulations of law, we have decided not to transpose the sub-law into law. We have foreseen this option in Article 2 of the original proposal for the introduction of Article 90a, which is now deleted. This material has already been introduced into sub-legislative acts following established legislation. The Ministry of Infrastructure has ensured that the size and characteristics of the vehicle marking sign to be carried by a group of children will be determined by amending the vehicle parts and equipment regulation and will be adapted to the vehicle type. The amendment of the sub-legislative regulation is already to be included in the regulatory work programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020, and therefore we do not set the time limit within which the Minister should amend the regulation. The last part of the proposal amends the Final provision to the Transitional and Final Provisions, thus adding a new Article 2a which regulates the termination and amendment of the law governing motor vehicles. This Article provides that the third paragraph of Article 2a of the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on Recording Equipment in Road Transport shall cease to apply from the date of the application of this Act. In the Motor Vehicle Laws, the text is replaced by the text “for the transport of a group of children designed and designed to carry a maximum of eight passengers by the driver”. This amendment follows the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which warned that the question of equality or inequality between two groups of children, set out in the new text of Article 38(3), may be raised in the adoption of the definition of a group of children. Therefore, a group of at least five preschool children or children attending primary school, representing the majority of passengers in a motor vehicle, a group of five or more children of the family and relatives on the line and on the sideline to the third knee listed and a group of five or more children transported in public line transport, shall not be considered as a group of children. In order to achieve the objective of the applicants, the removal of mandatory use of tachographs for all transport groups up to a maximum of eight passengers, by means of an amendment to the transitional provision, provides that the use of tachographs is not mandatory for the transport of a group of children operated by vehicles designed and designed for the transport of a maximum of eight passengers by the driver. This will not only apply to societies, associations of societies and institutions. This eliminates the inequality mentioned. We also follow the comments made by the Ministry of Infrastructure to regulate matter in a regulation setting out the mandatory use of tachograph in the transport of a group of children, namely in the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on Registration Equipment in Road Transport. This will regulate and ensure that mandatory use of tachographs is excluded. The requirements of the applicants and the Ministry's comments on the technical inspections of vehicles used for the transport of a group of children shall also be governed by a transitional provision, the abolition of technical checks for six months shall be governed by the Motor Vehicle Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Like I said before, does anyone want to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. The procedure's under way. Thank you very much. The first one gets the word Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, chairman. In Levika, we have repeatedly set ourselves for mandatory use of tachographs in out-of-way transport, even where this standard does not now apply. GoOpti is, say, an example like that. They were happening there, probably still happening, severe fraud, serious abuse. The drivers of social security do not, and usually do not have a contract of employment, because it is a platform that is supposed to only coordinate operators, are on a variety of business contracts, are workers, on espions and so on. And in what circumstances do these people drive? They work seven days a week, each other being forced to scrape for fur because they're paid by a mile. Compulsory rest, as the law imposes, is not granted because of the lack of tachographs. And then they flinch across half of Europe and back to meet the de facto instructions of the employer and to get enough resources to survive. In this process, of course, they endanger the safety of passengers, endanger the safety of all other road users as well as their safety, drive tired, exhausted, burned, sleepless and so on. With the law on the table today, the proposaler at first glance removes what he calls a bureaucratic obstacle, that the use of tachographs in vans is not necessary for the transport of children when they are engaged in various competitions and so on. Why am I calling an end to the administrative obstacle? Because I do not believe that most societies have respected any of these legal provisions. Firefighters who go to a firefight, children who are there with firefighters, are loaded in a fire van and taken away in any case if such a van does not have a tachograph. I also remember from our youth when we used to walk or went to the Škofja Loka Climb Club regularly, one of the parents who had children in the climbing club also had a van, either they were loaded in a van and drove to the climbing area. I think that this is how things are still going on, as one of the speakers said: society is finding itself. If legislation is prepared to find a very lifelike society when they are found, they are not in violation of the law, there is nothing so very wrong. But, look at the fraction, we got an amendment on the table that throws a completely different light on the entire marriage proposal. Not only does the tachographs for the non-profit transport of children in the company-directed direction remove the tachographs for the transport of children for gainful activities. Thus, when it comes to the transport of the island, the obligation of the tachograph to ensure road safety, the safety of these children, for all kinds of different transports, is cut. That's very wrong. The standard of road safety is also being cut for those who make this road traffic just to earn money. Here we have an exclusive example of public good, safety of human health, even children against the interests of capital. I don't know if the applicants know that they're doing this with the amendment they gave. They're just saying they're eliminating some discrimination. I would not say that there is any discrimination in favour of societies, non-profit and non-profit activities in which people are organised to pursue socially beneficial and leisurely goals. On the other hand, we have companies that serve with various services. Today's comparison between GoOpti and this type of release of tachographs in the transport of children is inadequate, said an MP from SMC, saying that GoOpti does not need tachographs today. Yeah, but that's exactly what's wrong with GoOpti not needing tachographs today. I've given you some of the consequences of how it looks if out-of-line transportation, including those with fewer seats in the van, doesn't have a tachograph. The people behind the wheel are burned. They're tired. Road users are in serious danger because of their fatigue. They don't have social security drivers. Passengers also do not have adequate traffic safety because their driver is unable to do that. In the previous term, when they have repeatedly proposed and requested tachographs to be introduced for such transports, the National Assembly has voted against our amendments to the rules on road transport, saying that all of this will be resolved by a European regulation. Well, today, a few years later, is anything resolved by the European regulation? Certainly not in our legal order. Foreign road transport is still taking place without tachographs, drivers are still drinking, brutally exploiting and the safety of people on the road is still at stake. And now this bad example would be passed on to the area, especially in the field of child transport. I don't think we can do this! I think the National Assembly must reject this amendment. If there is no, this law will continue in the third reading and I do not see any good reason for the regulation for tachographs to be released on average and beyond, so that someone on the transport of children with a lower safety standard will work with profit or as SMC Member has already stated on the committee, I quote, Mrs Mateja Udovč, who spoke before me, so that the applicants still want to do so, quote: "to prevent the abuse of the exemption of the transport of children for market purposes for various trips and so on." All right, I'd say the right political position, I'll sign. But just by making the amendment to cut the tachographs on average and across, you have made it possible or possible to do so. You're opening the door to what you call child transport abuse. What you yourself said about child transport abuse at a committee meeting a few days ago, today you are entering into legislation with this amendment that you have tabled. I don't think that's working. I don't think that's the way to accept it. A law that was relatively innocent, or a change of law that has no real consequences for the lives of people, or the functioning of various societies, nonprofits, NGOs, and so on, if they have to go to a race, on a trip, on a group activity, they find one of the parents who owns a van or owns a society owned by a van, they get carried away. I think that the country doesn't have too much to pursue because of this, even if the legislation in this title is corrected, that what they are doing will be perfectly legal under the letter of the law, okay, let it be done, I don't mind very much. But that now is an amendment that cuts the standards of road transport in general by eliminating tachographs for all, including for purely commercial activities in the transport of children, and this is a completely different story. I do not want us to come from some pretty life-threatening action to attack on the standards of drivers, on the standards of children and other road users, which is certainly the removal of mandatory tachographs for the transport of children. Is that a deliberately cowardly egg or not? I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think only the proponents have thought very carefully about what they want to do. That is why I call on them to vote against and to reject these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! First of all, I would like to say that today, in this law or through these amendments, we regulate only the rules for the transport of groups of children. Surely there are some irregularities and dilemmas in other transports that my colleague has warned about, but these changes focus only on the transport of children's groups. That we went into this change of legislation, as I already said on the committee, we were really talked into societies, relationships, firefighting associations, sports societies and everyone else, having great difficulties in organising children's transports to various games, exercises, training. In particular, fire companies are well aware that they have been in breach of the legislation for many years, as we have heard, since 2004, it has been enshrined in the law that children must therefore have a tachograph installed when transporting a group of children. Before that, it was already in the Rules of Procedure of 1998, which was then annulled by the Constitutional Court, as we have heard. And I would like to stress in particular that more than five children are considered a group of children, i.e. more than five preschool or primary school children. We need to be aware that there are also a lot of seven-member cars. And then when we started exploring this subject, we found that they have not only problems with society, but that families already have problems in the transport of children. Grandparents, grandparents, aunts, uncles should not take other children along with their children, for the law said that only the same family, so a group of children of the same family, does not belong in this category. That's why we're turning this into an extended family. After the law had come so far as to be presented by the proponent on the State Council, where the former Director of the Agency for Road Traffic Safety has also actively participated in the debate. Igor Velov and highlighted other aspects. We have found that other natural persons, such as our children, should not be taken in a van or a neighbor’s child or a schoolmate in a seven - week - old car. For example, he had a personal question at the time, he had 6 children of his own and obviously had nothing to worry about for the safety of his 6 children, and as soon as he took one child with him, a neighbor or a fellow student, then there were certain rules governing the state. He said, of course, that it was very difficult for him to tell his neighbor that he should not take his child with him. Indeed, in his opinion, the Council of State then presented and asked why these conditions were reasonable to ask why such a difference should be made in this case, as he had pointed out, it is said that the same driver is taking a group of children with the same vehicle and it is an unjustified distinction between the rules in the case of driving his children or, at the same time, a neighbor’s or a fellow student’s. Furthermore, when we were on the home Infrastructure Committee, then the Legal and Legal Service and the Ministry of Infrastructure pointed out the inequality before the law, because, indeed, we have been stressing the whole time of society, non-commercial transport, in the preparation of the proposal we have foreseen that for commercial transport, the rules remain the same as they are. In view of all the legislation and all the regulations that we have processed during this time, I must say that for these amendments, which are then prepared also on the recommendation, as stated by the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Legal and Legislative Service, I have no doubt that all transport of groups of children would not be subject to the same rules. For if we have reviewed all the legislation of the European Union, we have also given you a research task, I will also read it to you, and we find that no other country in the European Union requires the transport of children with a van, that the tachographs must be installed, but we do not see the need, we do not see why Slovenia would require it. In Slovenia we are usually always, whether it is any regulation or the acquisition of European funds or any other legislation, increasingly papal than the pope, and we always sharpen our legislation and write additional criteria, which prove, even in this case, to be non-lifelike. And if I mention this research assignment again. We then ordered a research task to focus primarily on all our neighbouring countries, how Italy, Hungary, Austria, Croatia have arranged these transports. Especially in border areas there are major problems when they have certain societies, sports or firefighters, these competitions in Slovenia. The Firefighters Association also warned that they are preparing for the second year of the Fire Olympics, where children will be brought from all countries, i.e. those young firefighters, into the competitions, and that means that everyone who brings children in these vans will be in violation of the legislation if we do not change it. For, as it is said, no other country requires these tachographs in its vans. If I just finish this research assignment, I'll read it to you. After reviewing the arrangements in all four countries under consideration, we can find that none of them know the same rights as in our country regarding the transport of a group of children. While there are general provisions regarding the safety of the transport of children, this is not the subject of this task. In none of the four countries, namely Austria, Croatia, Italy, Hungary, in passenger cars, there is no need to install a tachograph for the transport of the group of children. At the same time, we have not observed a specific ban on drivers so that we should not participate, for example, in the exercise of children. In addition, there were no specific additional requirements regarding the qualification of drivers, such as the minimum mandatory period of possession of category B driving licence. But here I would like to say that we will still keep this in the sub-laws, which remains in the rules. However, the regulation will be updated or updated by the Ministry in a short time, as announced. In general, this period, the minimum duration that the driver has a driving licence for at least 3 years, this remains because it has also been said that all such criteria are deleted, but that is not true. Another anomaly occurred when we were researching tachographs. A group of children is a group of preschool or primary children. So for the safety of children, students, then over 15 years of age, in fact, there is no longer a problem. So far, until the age of 15, this has been required, and it has always been necessary for societies, who were aware of what legislation is, to know a lot of these rigorous demands, and now began to wonder when we were talking about it more, but they had to combine just when they were driving children or at football games or any other game. Is it now the difference between whether you take 5 or 6 or 7 children U-12, that is, 12 years old, to a football game that needs to have a tachograph, or you take so many children aged U-15, that is, 15 years old who don't actually need a tachograph. I mean, we haven't really seen any connection or anything real here, because kids, all kids, are still kids until they're 18. And, as it is said, it is certainly going in the direction of debirocraticism, which is in fact the goal of this government. I think that the Ministry of Infrastructure has a really big challenge here, because this transport legislation is prescribed in so many laws and regulations that we really needed 14 days before we were able to figure out in which law to correct this matter at all, that it would also be the most correct one. One more thing about the tachograph, and one example that I have already highlighted on the committee, I would like to ask again, because fatigue has been exposed. The tachograph won't stop the fatigue. If, for example, I don't know, a coach or a fire mentor or anyone else in any society or elsewhere comes from their regular job, where he's been working for 8 or 10 hours or more or even at night, even if he puts in a tachograph card, this card won't detect any fatigue, because he's actually barely starting to drive. Therefore, in these cases, even in the case of a traffic accident in 1998, which was mentioned, fatigue has proved to be the case. In fact, the tachograph can't stop it. Parents still have the option of trusting these mentors, coaches, firefighters, or we will continue to drive their children to the games, training as we have done so far. Because now most of the transports were connected to parents, especially in societies that were aware and knew this legislation in very detail. If Europe really thinks about any aggravation of this legislation, it certainly does not think about tachographs, as it has been said, because there are already other electronic applications that can be uploaded to the phone and, otherwise, monitor the driving of drivers. If Europe accepts this, we will, of course, follow, but, as we say, I do not know why Slovenia should be the one that would sharpen the law so that it is completely lifeless. I support, of course, the law, including the amendments created in cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure. It should apply if, then, the rule is that the rules for all must be the same, so that all transports of a group of children should be subject to the same rules. For us, however, it is crucial that we save the original law, that we save society, which was also our original purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The word has Željko Ciegler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I've only got 23 seconds. I would like to say this, the representative of the Party Alenka Bratušek, who formerly led the Ministry of Infrastructure, made it clear that tachographs play an important role in ensuring traffic safety on Slovenian roads, especially when it comes to children. We cannot be twofold here in the sense of calling NGOs, firefighters, sports companies in such a way that we can reduce traffic safety for their young participants. I think business has to be this way if this is going to be [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u121	Time's up. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Aleš Mihelic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u122	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Let me briefly give the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Road Traffic Rules. By supplementing the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Rules Act, the meaning of the term of the group of children set out in Article 38, paragraph 1, of the Road Traffic Rules Act and Article 90a of the Road Traffic Rules Act shall be amended and supplemented by the conditions for transport of the group up to a maximum of eight children carried out by natural or legal persons. The basic objective pursued by the updated proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Rules Act is to reduce administrative restrictions which, in the transport of a group of up to eight children, result in only unnecessary high costs, the mandatory use of recording equipment in the transport of a group of children, and the exclusion of further technical checks every six months in the transport of a group of up to eight children. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has carefully examined and supported the proposed solutions, but the main solutions in relation to the content of the proposals should be regulated in the regulations governing the scope of recording equipment and technical checks, namely the mandatory use of recording equipment in road transport tachographs in the transport of a group of children established by the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Holidays of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport, and the deadlines for carrying out the technical checks set out in the Law on Motor Vehicles. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the proposed solutions can only be regulated by prejudice to the provisions of Article 2a(3) of the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport and the provision of Article 49(4) of the Law on Motor Vehicles, thereby maintaining the same safety conditions for all carriages of a group of children as laid down in the Law on Road Traffic and the Law on Motor Vehicles. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also considers that the exclusion of mandatory use of tachograph should be established for all transport of groups to the most children, but not only for the transport of a group of up to eight children by natural or legal persons. The amendments to Article 1, Article 2, the title of the Final provision and Article 2a of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Traffic Rules Act are fully followed by the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Traffic Rules Act submitted by the Group of Members and Members, signed by Mojca Žnidarič, which is why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia fully supports them. At the same time, when presenting the opinion of the Government, I would like to give just one brief piece of information in view of the debate we have been given in the last few minutes, namely Regulation No 561/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council already stipulates that for all transports over 9 persons, i.e. 8 + 1 or over 8 + 1 the use of tachographs is already determined. What is most important, however, is that, according to the regulation and all the provisions and also the position already presented, it is extremely important for the equality of all transport operators, both those who carry out transport on a profitable basis and those who carry out it on a non-profit basis, that it should be levelled. Therefore, such an opinion has also been adopted by the Government and is, of course, in accordance with the Regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The text shall be obtained by the representative of the proposer, Matey Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. In order not to leave misplaced things intact, I would just like to explain that we are all well aware and know that the tachograph is a control device installed in road vehicles for road transport. It is intended to display and record data on the movement of the vehicle and the part of the driver. It was primarily intended for the supervision of drivers by their employers and for the supervision of the competent inspection services. It was not until later that we introduced it into our legislation as a technical tool for law enforcement. At the same time, awareness and responsible behaviour in transport are essential. No tachograph, no boards and other technical devices will help if we sit drunk, scattered, unresponsibly behind the wheel. Driving under the influence of alcohol and other substances, speedy and bold driving, non-compliance with traffic signs and road traffic rules are far more dangerous factors that endanger road safety. However, we should never call on associations and other non-governmental organisations or anyone in the country to engage in illegal conduct, which we are legislators at the same time. By driving the children in vehicles by parents or acquaintances, friends do not mean that the driver who drove these children did not violate the legislation; however, it is true that companies or NGOs did not violate the legislation. Today's amendments are the fruit of the discussions of all stakeholders at the meeting of the parent working body, so they are good, true and eliminate the inequality of all stakeholders before the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes, so I'm asking for applications. We have one debater. Boris Doblekar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u126	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I didn't mean to check in at first, but I see my colleagues need help. When Matthew was discussing it, there was also some laughs and jokes on the other side, but I'm not going to comment, but I laughed well. I must say, when there will be discussions about some sensitive living things, I hope that we will be more serious on this side. I have already announced in the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party that we will support the amendment of this law. We must not forget, however, that for the last time on the committee, the representatives of the Association of Fires of Slovenia, or the President or Commander, if I speak correctly, and the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, which for years and years have been talking about major difficulties in transporting groups of children. It is likely that Members and Members themselves know if you are dealing with societies, both firefighters and sportsmen, that the real problem has been so far when children had to be transported to training, games and so on. I do not understand the Members of the Left who are so against it and that the tachographs should be at least still in the passenger vehicle, in each and so on. I don't know, I really don't get it, considering they're so ecologically conscious. If you know we have to take the kids to practice or a game of one, two, or three, how many cars go, instead of putting them in the van and driving them safely. I believe that anyone who drives a van, whether it's a fireman or a parent, goes on the road with the knowledge that he has a young life in the car, that he has children in the car, that he has to drive safely, that he has to drive by traffic regulations, that no one will go on the road now to make an accident, to hurt someone and so on. I think everyone knows that. If the tachograph is in or out of the vehicle, it may have little effect on the subconscious of the tachograph itself, because the driver knows that the speed is recorded and that it can then be evident if anything happens. I've been doing my own profession for years and years, where my whole ride has been recorded on a tachograph, and I have to say that after years it's already in your blood, you forget the essence of it, and you're working on it like there's no record of it. That's why I don't believe this record on the tachograph would have had any impact on everything. In short, we also know that we are the only ones in Europe, that we have such restrictive measures that we are actually completely alone in this area. It is really high time, in my opinion, that we too adapt to the European situation and European legislation and that we do not detect hot water in this area. As far as recording working time is concerned, I know that truck drivers, freight forwards and so on have a lot of comments on recording working time or on these breaks and on how long they can and can't drive, and I believe that in a while this problem will also open up because they literally say it's lifeless and that it's more an obstacle than anything good. But let's just leave it at that. It's not the subject of this. Let me put it another way, one example from practice or from my life. Two, three, four years in my early teens, a visit to the branch school in Stangarski Poljana, on Friday we were walked by priest Loize Kavčič with Volkswagen’s bug after school to find that we did not walk four and a half miles [4.5 km] to the Veruk. And he came in once or twice, and inside that bug, he took us small pieces of 7, 8, 9, 10 as far as we went in. Nothing ever happened to anyone, and he always brought us back safe and sound, and it was really nice for us to have one such pleasant experience, and we didn't have to walk. That was great, so even if someone didn't want to go to the church, at least because he was driving with that bug that went fine up into the hill. I think it's been a long time since 1998, since the tragic moment that we've actually taken such strict measures. Driving culture, road infrastructure, vehicles have completely changed since then. I believe, too, that if I were to be here right now, I don't know any big concern or problem because of the safety of traffic itself, that the Agency for Safety in Transport would also play a role or make any comments, because they are never silent and are only there to deal with prevention and training in road transport. I do not think that we will actually cause any problems with this change, or that this will reduce road safety and regulation as regards the safety of the transport of children's groups. I think that this matter is actually very welcome and that after so many years of waiting mainly for NGOs, which I am also surprised that the Levica, given that usually very much likes to help NGOs, NGOs, in one way or another, that there is no listening here. Of course, we will certainly support these changes, including the amendment actually on the basis of requests from sports associations, the Olympic Committee, the Fire Federation of Slovenia, even on the basis of the fact that the State Council has supported the issue of the Government's support. In short, we all support each other, so that I do not believe that we would now go this way, that if one handful of people does not support this for such or other political reasons, perhaps even some political reasons, I will not say that I will not now reject the whole of Slovenia. So I hope that this amendment of legislation will go through the vote and that we will all face these necessary changes together in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I find that there is no longer interest, so I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the vote. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 18th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 2.20 p.m. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 13.46 p.m. and resumed at 14.20 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u128	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. I inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 8, 6, 7, 2, 5, 15 and 1 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infectious Diseases in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Infectious Diseases is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. [[advertising from the hall]] I've suspended the vote. Yeah? We're voting again. The vote is under way. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 80 votes against 1. [[The vote was 80.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on intervention measures in the management of municipal waste packaging and waste grave candles under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on intervention measures in the management of municipal waste packaging and waste grave candles is not suitable for further treatment. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 76 votes in favour, 9 votes in favour. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 7th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the proposal for a law amending the Penal Code under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 35. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Traffic Rules in the framework of the shorter procedure. We continue to decide on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 16 June 2020, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 1. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to Article 2 shall become an amendment to Article 2, to Article 2a, and to the title The final provision shall be irrelevant, since all those amendments are substantively linked. Comrade Željko Cigler on behalf of the parliamentary group, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u129	Your Honor! When we asked today about the proposed amendments to this Act why safety measures are being taken in the transport of children in vans in the Republic of Slovenia, this is said to be the end of tachographs, the applicants have practically not given us an answer. The simple answer was to remove administrative obstacles in children, to make a tachograph a high cost that burdens NGOs, sports societies, firefighters, cultural societies. Thirdly, what was most obvious is that one such measure is to eliminate tachographs that have so far been obliged to carry children to stop because otherwise they would be profitable operators in an unequal position compared to non-profit operators. In this respect, we have been in the Ministry of Infrastructure in Levica, and also by other parties, especially by Stanka Alenka Bratušek, who led the Ministry of Infrastructure in the past mandate and is aware of these things, its Members have highlighted the issue of road safety for such transport if this mechanism is lifted. None of this has been practically heard and the inequality before the law is now set aside for profitable child transport operators in the vans in such a way that tachographs are simply discontinued for all child transport, i.e. at the expense of children. Such a change in the law to reduce traffic safety for children and other road users is, of course, unacceptable for Levico and we will vote against these amendments if they are adopted against the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u130	Explanation on behalf of the parliamentary group, colleague of Matey Udovč.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would like to say that, as candidates at the meeting of the National Assembly, we replied, but because they were not in the Chamber, they probably did not hear that. I would point out once again that no board, no tachograph and other technical equipment will help and improve driving if we sit drunk, scattered, unaccounted for and irresponsible. Driving under the influence of alcohol and other substances and bold driving, disregarding traffic signs and road transport are far more dangerous factors that endanger road safety. That is why we will unanimously support the proposal to amend the law in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u132	Is there any other explanation for the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament? Don't you? If not, on my own behalf, colleague Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u133	Thank you for your word, chairman. Following the current regulation of the Road Traffic Rules Act, companies, NGOs, in short, groups engaged in non-profit activities must also transport children on the condition that they have tachographs in the vans. This arrangement is to some extent lifeless. Already, a large number of societies are practically ignoring it because they don't have money for tachographs. They rely on any parent from any child involved in social activities to take their parents to competitions, excursions, and so on. This law, the original law, basically adapts legislation to these life-forms. However, an amendment also came into view, which also eliminates the necessity of tachographs for the transport of children's groups for commercial operations. Thus, transport of children in road transport will be able, if this amendment is adopted, to be carried out under reduced safety standards in order for some to earn – capital owners, of course. We warned in Levica during the debate, but we did not really get the answer, so we read the amendment, we followed the debate. The fact that there is a greater danger than mango tachograph is the fact that someone is behind the wheel drunk, that he is distracted, is not an answer, but a diversion of attention. Tachographs are a guarantee of the respect of labour rights in road transport, which is why out-of-line carriers, such as GoOpti, are so heavily defended or defended in the past. Now, however, the Government would agree to these capital arguments and eliminate the protection of children in road transport only for the profits of some. We will vote against all amendments to the coalition if they are adopted, as well as against the law as a whole. Let it help societies with living laws, not support the interests of the business to the detriment of children.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u134	My colleague Mojca Žnidarič, in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. I will support the law as well as the amendments. But I would like to make it clear that it will not remain open, as the members of the Left now explain. So it's true, the law was further prepared to help societies, unions, institutions, institutions. However, the Ministry of Infrastructure clearly and loudly then warned that the biggest inequality and problem would arise in schools, because schools with their vans would not have to have tachographs in these vans in our first case, but if schools hire someone external, they should have them. And there would be one big problem, so it really isn't right to create some new inequality. And since no European Union country or its legislation requires as strict conditions as Slovenia already has, we are actually going with these amendments to the level of European Union legislation. And really, Slovenia does not need to have more rigorous and stricter legislation in this case and also in other laws, which we like to write very rigorously and bureaucraticly. Thus, the amendments follow the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the Ministry of Infrastructure and European Union legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u136	A colleague of Matthew the Widow in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u137	Today's amendments are based on a discussion by all stakeholders at the parent's working body meeting. With these amendments, we eliminate inequality before the law, so I will support these amendments as well as the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u138	My friend Runk in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u139	Yeah, look, some country that has 10 billion budgets, if it's not able to buy thousands of tachographs for schools and for these societies, is the best thing to do. Against!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u140	We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. It's 63 votes against 11. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 2. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the same proposal for a new Article 2a and the final provision to the title shall become irrelevant, since those amendments are substantively linked. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 61 votes in favour, 11 votes in favour. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to new Article 2.a. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to the title will become irrelevant, since the amendments are substantively linked. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 62 votes against 10. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to the title Final provision. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 11. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill. I note that the Second reading assembly has adopted the amendments to Articles 1 and 2 for a new Article 2a and to the title Final provision. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article. Comrade Matthew Vatovec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u141	I predict that for the third reading of the articles to which the amendments have been adopted, further amendments will be tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u142	I interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue on Thursday, 18. 6. 2020, after the final vote. We're moving on to 15. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for the Election of a Judge or Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. On 29 May 2020, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly that Mrs Barbara Zbez or Dr Andraza Terška be elected judge or judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. On 9 June 2020, Ms Barbar Zobac informed the National Assembly that she was withdrawing from the candidacy for a judge of the Constitutional Court. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic, Mrs Natashi Kovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u143	Dear President, Members and Members of Parliament, nice greeting! In this case, the President of the Republic of Slovenia elected a candidate for a judge or a judge of the Constitutional Court from the following six candidates and one candidate: Prof. Dr. Ange Erbežnik, Prof. Dr. Branko Korže, Dr. Janez Pogorec, mag. Marko Starman, Prof. Dr. Rok Svetlič, Dr. Andraz Teršek and Barbara Zorec. This is the last proposal of the current President of the Republic for the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, as the composition of the Court will not change for the next five years following a regular procedure. In all eight procedures so far, the candidates of the President of the Republic were elected in the first round. Allow me, on behalf of the President of the Republic, to extend my sincere thanks to the Members and Members of all the convocations that you have and have participated in the election of the current composition of the Constitutional Court for their constructive participation in the consultations and for the successful conclusion of all the proceedings. This is the first time that the President of the Republic has decided to propose two candidates to the National Assembly for one seat of Judge of the Constitutional Court. This option was mentioned shortly after the end of the public call for candidates. He assessed that this time, in the case of the last nomination in this composition of the Constitutional Court, it would be appropriate to give Members and Members the opportunity to elect a new judge or judge from among the two candidates. The initial candidate and candidate are also legal experts of different profiles, while no one could find a convincing majority to elect. In respect of the decision of Judge Barbara Zbez to withdraw from the candidacy, the President of the Republic proposes an election of the Council. Prof. Dr. Andraza Terška, Doctor of Legal Sciences, University Teacher at the University of Primorska, where he teaches from law, constitutional law, legal philosophy and human rights. At the same time, at the European Faculty of Law of the New University of Nova Gorica, he is a carrier of subjects Theory and practice of the social state and Constitutional law. Dr. Teršek is active in various professional and academic fields, scientific research, study, teaching and publicity, mainly in constitutional law, legal philosophy, human rights and freedoms, sociological and philosophical aspects of law, political philosophy and psychology. Special attention shall be paid to criticism of errors in legal practice and in the functioning of courts. He published numerous constitutional debates and analyses, debates and writings on the theory of legality and legitimacy, civil disobedience, legal culture. He has established himself as a critical commentator and analyst of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and the Slovenian Constitutional Court. It deals in particular with freedom of expression and the right to privacy. He wrote down a number of successful initiatives for constitutional judicial review, including in some cases which were particularly significant in the general public. He is a permanent external associate and reviewer of the annual national reports on the state of democracy and the rule of law in the transition countries of Central and Eastern Europe for the NGO Freedom House. His bibliography covers more than 450 units. He is the author of numerous monographs, scientific articles, professional debates and lectures, and in particular on topics of constitutional law, constitution, freedom of expression of human rights. In its work so far, particularly in the field of constitutional law, constitutional law and constitutional decision-making, it has become academically recognized and has reached a high level of professional sovereignty, which is to be understood as the basis for the act of Constitutional Judge. By knowing both the constitutional theory and the case law of all courts, he could make a significant contribution to the work of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia by his rich publicist and pedagogical work in case of election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is delivered by the Group of Social Democrats, a colleague of Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u145	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Secretary, President of the State, colleague and colleague! There is no secret that the Social Democrats have already expressed their support for Dr Andraž Teršk's candidacy as a constitutional judge in the talks with the President of the State. As the President of the Republic wrote in the proposal of candidates on the basis of a public call, we are convinced that Dr Teršek is a suitable candidate for a new constitutional judge and has demonstrated by his work so far that he will be able to contribute significantly to the functioning of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. As a constitutional lawyer, Dr. Andraz Teršek proved himself in both academic and publicist fields. As a constitutional lawyer, however, without hair on his tongue, he is an articulated and determined advocate of the values of the rule of law, human rights and also of constitutional principles, by listening to social justice and by taking particular care of vulnerable groups. He is the author of a number of publications that reflect his dedication to all these values, including the book Social Constitutional Democracy from philosophy and theory to practice, in which we can clearly see his view of the rule of law, social justice and the care of constitutional order, which they undoubtedly welcome in the light of his appointment as a constitutional judge. In doing so, we must stress that the views of the Social Democrats have not always been consistent with and do not match his views, which in our view only further shows that our support for his election is, of course, not politically motivated, but leads us to respect his firm principle, objectivity and commitment to the values he advocates. From all of this, the Social Democrats will support Mr Andraz Tersk as a Constitutional Judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Left Party. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u147	Thank you very much, President. In recent years, the Constitutional Court has faced various challenges. On the one hand, human resources, as we have seen many times, have been named in trades between the so-called lions and the right, and the other thing that the Constitutional Court faced was, above all, substantive issues. The Constitutional Court is certainly a key aspect of the Slovenian judicial system as a court, which rules primarily or primarily on the weakest, on those who have been violated human rights. While it is often said that decisions of the courts should not be commented on, many times the Constitutional Court has made a mistake, I think we can call it that. The most eloquent cases in recent years have been the granting of a referendum on the rights of same-sex couples, where, on the basis of some procedural arguments like most of us, we went to decide what rights a minority in that country should have, on the other hand, had no reservations to prohibit, say, a referendum on the law on defence, where there were enough indications that such a law could be in the referendum. So the Constitutional Court, as one key institution in this country, must have some problems. These problems are probably also related to a lack of respect, as we are also aware of the fact that interest in the functions of constitutional judges has also changed slightly in recent years. On the other hand, it has the issue of the current composition. This current composition is at times, as we have seen in certain decisions taken by this Constitutional Court. In our view, it needs some fresh moment or moment to bring some torque to this Constitutional Court, which would slightly repair it in this spin. I can say, too, that in Levika, with some of the positions that Dr. Trešek has, which we have not agreed on, but we can agree on certain things that are primarily related to the rights of the weak, to the rights of the small person, if we so call him, and in particular to his view of poverty. His most well-known thesis is that poverty should be unconstitutional should be a position common to all, not only politicians, but in fact all citizens and citizens of this country as well as all the other inhabitants. This is probably one of the views that must come to the Constitutional Court, many times, many decisions have forgotten this basic aspect. I think that, after the economic recession we witnessed a few years ago and the possible recession we are now entering, poverty will still be one of the key and pressing issues in Slovenia in the 21st century, which should certainly not be. From this point of view, in particular, we expect Dr Teršek to be elected to insist on this position in order to try to assess matters that come before the Constitutional Court, to weigh these two aspects in particular, it is said, a stronger and weaker aspect, which must be, of course, consistent with the Constitution and the laws, in particular for the most vulnerable, and in particular, a fight that will be directed against poverty. From this point of view, we will support Mr Tersk's candidacy in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The text is by the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek, a colleague of Vojko Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u149	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! On the basis of the candidates received for constitutional judges, the President of the Republic recognised Andraz Terška and Barbara Zbez as the most suitable candidate and the latter withdrew from the candidacy. Even though we are deciding only one candidate today, the task of this assembly is no easier. On the basis of the impartiality and independence of the candidates of the current constitution of the Constitutional Court in terms of diversity and the experience of the candidates notified, the Group of Members has developed its preferences on the basis of several criteria. The candidate for a Constitutional Judge must be a person who raises no doubt about independent and impartial decision-making in all areas of the functioning of the Constitutional Court. Doubts about the independence or impartiality of any judge undermine confidence in the rule of law, in an apolitical, objective and fair trial. If there is talk about the highest and most prominent representatives of the judiciary, we do not tolerate doubts about impartiality and independence in the SAB. It is precisely because of this doubt that we have previously renounced the support of late candidate Barbara Zobs. However, we must admit that the candidate we are voting on was not our first choice. As the most suitable candidate, we have identified Dr Branko Koržet, a lawyer specialising in the field of economic law. According to our assessment, with the knowledge and experience gained, it would certainly contribute to the quality of the constitutional judgements of the regime, as regards the economic and wider economic system in the Republic of Slovenia. Let us add that another reason for our choice was our age, since the current composition of the Constitutional Court is extremely young. We believe that our candidate would be an acquisition that would bring balance to the Constitutional Court. Despite the relatively young academic career of Andraza Terška, we recognize him as a lawyer active in the field of constitutional law and a zealous advocate of human rights. In the field of research and publicism, it is clearly devoted to democracy, sociological and physiological aspects of law. His advocacy of the implementation of the Constitution at all times of the legal system gives us the hope that it is a candidate who will contribute to strengthening the rule of law, democracy and human rights. According to the announcement in the SAB Group, we will support Dr. Andraz Teršk's candidate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca, a colleague of Jerco Korča.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u151	Thank you, President, for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia is an independent and autonomous state body. Hierarchically, it is the highest authority of the judiciary for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in our country and the guardian of constitutionality and legality. As an institution, it must enjoy a high degree of respect and respect in our society. We must allow this reputation and respect to be gained. Yet, all of us today live together in some totally different, in strange times. In times when there is a tendency to seek constant conflict in the center. In times when we are once again wondering whether we are moving into some new normality of moving the boundaries of acceptable. At a time when we are rightly asking ourselves whether those who first called on the guilty would like to move the boundaries of human rights and freedoms. We live in a time when social discourse moves into the field of thoughtless nuns, when the problem has become cops who smile and paint with peaceful protestors. We live in times when the definition of freedom of speech is drawn in the image of the country's leading politicians and when some take the right to discredit anything else. At the same time, criticism against authorities becomes marked as hate speech. Yes, we are obviously born every day or awakened to some new crazy reality. People are no longer classified by their abilities, by who they are, and by what added value they are to society. No, people simply began to fall into two categories – ours and yours. If you think differently than we do, you'll be theirs and you'll get a portion of false or semi-circumcised truths about yourself, so, just to teach everyone else. Similarly, there have been many constitutional judges or candidates for constitutional judges. Knowledge, impartiality, garrison, commitment to law and justice, always seeking ways to find a way of human dignity and justice through arguments, even when individual decisions may be in public testing, it is all the more important today to stand up and defend their decision by force of argument. To be self-involved, perhaps even sometimes misunderstood and marked as headstrong, and to prove its impartiality over and over again by actions, even when and if anyone would want to have an influence, to stand clearly with his spine, which is not removed from the left and not from the right. Those who read his writings, articles, books, perhaps even beauty or poetry had the opportunity to see stubbornly and with their own self - control through the written words. Those who sat with him and exchanged a few words could see his sense of justice and his commitment to reading human rights and fundamental freedoms. Yes, we may not like his views at some point, but that is the key argument that we support him as a Constitutional Judge. According to public statements, the mathematical summary shows that the candidate today will receive sufficient support. Otherwise, this will be another proof of how some of you speak to the public and do the other in a secret vote. And yes, my fellow Members, today's vote is a secret one, so you must courageously express your will. In the List of Marjan Šarc, we have, as always, assessed the competence and suitability of the candidate. Dr. Andraž Teršek is, by his conduct and knowledge, an appropriate and mature man to occupy the seat of the Constitutional Judge and in the Group of Members of the Letter Marjan Šarca we will support him today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u152	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a secret vote on the Proposal for the election of a Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with Article 163 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act, the National Assembly shall decide on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. Representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for members of the voting committee, namely Franz Breznik, Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Andreja Zabret, Parliamentary Group Lista Marjan Sarca, Boštjan Koražija, Levic Group, Blaž Pavlin, New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal for a commission? I guess not. We are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 82 votes against 1. [[The vote was 82.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word “for” or “against”. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act, the proposed candidate, Dr Andraz Teršek, for a judge of the Constitutional Court, will be elected if the majority of all Members and Members vote, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. Before we move to a secret ballot, I would like to draw attention to the provision of Article 92(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides that persons who do not participate in the vote may not have access to the Chamber during a secret vote. I therefore call on all representatives of the Government and the experts of the parliamentary groups to leave the Chamber at this time. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask the Member and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 3:10 p.m. and will last until 15.25 p.m. After the vote, I ask the Member and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u153	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the adjourned session and point 15a, this is by reading the Proposal for the election of the Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. I will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 16 June 2020. 88 ballots were distributed, 88 ballots were delivered, 8 ballots were invalid, 80 votes valid. 42 members voted against. 38 members voted against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 38.]] The candidate, Dr. Andraz Teršek, did not receive the majority of the votes of all Members and was therefore not elected as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Since Dr Andraz Teršek has not received a sufficient number of votes from Members and Members, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act, elections shall be held on the basis of a new proposal by the President of the Republic. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Prešeren Fund. The proposal was tabled by the Government. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. The following is a presentation of the position of the Left Group, with the word of colleague Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u154	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the President! The Management Board of the Prešeren Fund shall consist of 15 members appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Article 6 of the Law on the Prešeren Prize states that members are selected from among the types of cultural creators and prominent cultural experts. The current committee is due to expire in September and 20 proposals have arrived at the public invitation of the Ministry of Culture, of which the Government of the National Assembly is proposing 15 candidates. The Governing Board of the Prešeren Fund has an important mission and responsibility to assess, evaluate, evaluate, evaluate, value and thus determine the recipients of the Prešeren Prize, which is the highest and most prestigious recognition in the field of cultural and artistic design in the Republic of Slovenia, and the awards of the Prešeren Fund. The Management Board shall take decisions on the awarders on the basis of the nominations of the expert committees for each of the areas it appoints. It is therefore crucial that the Committee, by its composition, is diverse, including, valueless and impartial, since it can only thus be a credible guarantee of proper action. In the list of names given to us in our decision-making process, it is possible to detect a politically marked perspective. The composition of the new management board is monotonous, monolithic and homogeneous. In front of us are 15 candidates whose names show a tendency to a certain right political option, the professional profiling of the suit does not cover all areas or contemporary cultural and artistic flows, is substantively unbalanced, and is even professionally disputed in cities. Such composition of the committee does not meet the complexity of the task of the committee which manages the Prešeren Prize. We are convinced that the deployment of political-line experts is not a suitable criterion for ensuring a high ethical level of functioning of the board and that its bias can endanger artists and artists who do not act in line and are not subject to specific political options. The visual monolithism of the body’s composition, which should be ethical and neutral, professional and impartial, can act exclusively and discriminatoryly towards all those cultural creators who are outside of it and undermine the reputation of culture in society. The culture of the nation is not in the service of ruling elites, nor is it in the Prešeren Prize, and the Management Board of the Prešeren Fund is not in favor of installing ideological adherents. We will not support the proposal for the Management Board of the Prešeren Fund in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-16-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u155	Thank you. We are done with the presentation of the Group's position. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing members of the Management Board of the Prešeren Fund for a period of four years: Dr. Rok Andres, Lovrenc Blaž Arnič, Marko Cotič, Barbara Drnač, Bernarda Fink Inzko, ddr. Igor Grdin, Katarina Klančnik Kocutar, Mateja Komel Snoj, Dr. Janko Kos, Ženja Leiler Kos, Dr. Jože Možina, Dr. Jožef Muhovic, Yuri Paljk, Dr. Robert Simonišek and Dr. Sonja Weiss. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 35. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 35.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for discharge from the functions of Council member Banka Slovenije – Vice-Governor. Mag. Marko Bošnjak is in accordance with Article 39 of the Bank of Slovenia Act of 26. 5. 2020 The National Assembly informed it of its resignation as a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, Vice-Governor, and proposed to the National Assembly that it should take place at 31. Seven. You need to get rid of the function. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision by which it is magnified. Marko Bosnjak discharge the functions of a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia – Vice-Governor, of 31. Seven. 2020. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing two members of the State Audit Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Marko Medved and Andraz Žvan as a member of the State Audit Commission for eight years. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member and the appointment of a member of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that will dissolve Polona Car in the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia and will be called Brana But for the remainder of the term of office of the Council appointed by a Decision appointing members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, Official Gazette 14/17. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 25. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 25.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are going through the request of the District Court in Ljubljana, the Penal Department, for permission to initiate criminal proceedings against the Member of the Court of Justice, Dr. Franca Trček. The request was referred to the District Court in Ljubljana, the Penal Department, for consideration of the meeting. The request was addressed as a mother's work by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. We're moving on to decision-making. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(2) and (3) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the request of the District Court in Ljubljana, Section No. 2K5465/2020, of 8. 6. 2020, in respect of a permit to initiate criminal proceedings against a Member of the Commission, Mr Franz Trček for a criminal offence of regret pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 158 of the Penal Code and an offence of offensive indemnity under the second paragraph of Article 160 of the Penal Code, he shall not grant immunity to a Member of the Council, Dr. Franc Trčko. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion and explanation of vote. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 18. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 18.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the proposals made by Members and Members for a debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers of 16 June 2020, which is published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Janez Ivan Janša to the question of the post of Mr Predrag Baković regarding the operation of the guard in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 45. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Janez Ivan Janša to the question of the delegation, Natasa Sukić, on the attack on media freedom and independence. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 47. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pavlovska to the question of Mr Jožet Lenart concerning the purchase of protective equipment during the covid-19 epidemic. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Health Minister Tomaž Gantar and Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pavlovska to the question of Mr Pavšić's delegation regarding the purchase and use of the protective equipment purchased for covid-19 purposes. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 48. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac, to the question of mag. Andrej Reich's investment priorities. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 47. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovec, to the question of the delegation of Jani Ivanuše concerning the procedures for the construction of the Hajdin-Ormož Fast Road. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 52. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Magi space. Andrej Visiak on the question of the mission of Lidija Dijak Mirnik concerning the placement of projects on the list of important investments. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 47. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate next on the response of the Minister for Environment and Magi. Andrej Visiak on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 45. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, to the question of the question of correspondence, Primož Siter, concerning support for the cultural sector for recovery after the coronation. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 48. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Boštjan Koritnik, to Rudija Medved's question on the abolition of local administrative units. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 47. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Počvalska and Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Cigler Kralj to the question of Bosniak Koražija on economic measures and the labour market in the region of Koroška, Štajerska and Prekmurje. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 47. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Andrej Širclja asked Jerce Korča about providing additional liquidity to the economy to mitigate the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 48. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for Janez Cigler King to the question of Mr Aljaž Kovacič on the exercise of personal assistance. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 48. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandre Pivec, to the question of Mr Edvard Paulič on the food supply chain and self-sustainment. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 47. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Andrej Širclja's question to the Parliamentary question of Andreja Zabret concerning the amendments to the statutes of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, d.d. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 47. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister without a department for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia to the Council of Dr Helena Jaklitsch on the question of the delegation of Mr Jožet Lenart concerning the role and activities of the Republic of Slovenia at the 100th anniversary of the Koroška plebiscite. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 46. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Boštjan Koritnik, to the question of Mr Prebel, on amendments to the Public Procurement Act. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 47. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Liliane Kozlovič and Interior Minister Aleš Hojs on the question of Bosniak Koražija regarding hate speech, intolerance and media attacks against LGBT minorities in Slovenia. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 47. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pavlovska and Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Cigler Kralje to the question of Primož Siter regarding government assistance to operators and performers of personal supplemental work. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 48 [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandre Pivec, to the question of Ms Violeta Tomić in relation to the Slovenian state forests, d. o. o. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 48 [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 18th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. (The sitting was suspended 16.) JUNE 2020 AT 16.07.)
