ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting the 38th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Bojana Muršič, Marjan Sarec, Soniboj Knezak, Janja Servant by 1:00 p.m., Ferenc Horváth by 4 p.m., Jerca Korče by 12 noon. At the meeting, I invited the government representatives to all points. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before moving to the agenda, I would like to inform you that we are returning to the normal course of the meeting today, so I would like to ask the representatives of the Government and the Members and Members to present a supplementary explanation of the matters, presentation of the reports of the home working bodies and the views of the sent groups behind the speaker. Of course, there is no need for a mask to speak from behind the payphone. I also inform you that masks are not mandatory but are recommended. Members and Members of Parliament, when you discuss from your benches that you are still sitting in the debate. We are moving on to the setting of the agenda for the 38th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 22 May 2020, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have not received a proposal to withdraw the agenda item or proposals to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as referred to. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. They're working devices? [[No, no, ……]] Not with me, either. We'll try and activate it for the test. It's not working. Okay. Ten minutes off to set up the technique. Colleagues and colleagues, we've found everything's fine, so we're moving on with the meeting. So we vote on the agenda. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 38th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. Procedurally, colleague of Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u2	Thank you very much, President. In fact, I'd have two things procedurally. For the first time, we would like to point out once again how the treatment has taken place on the working body for today's 3rd item of the agenda. I will point out once again that a meeting of the Committee on Humane Conditions has been convened, it is said, in the middle of the night. I also think that the holding of this meeting was very unfair. On the one hand, public participation was denied, this was confirmed by civil society organisations that wanted to attend and participate in the debate, that they were clearly told that because of the epidemic, their cooperation as active “representatives” is not possible, but only as listeners, which is, of course, contrary to the agreement that civil society organisations can cooperate with one representative in the work of the National Assembly. Not to mention repeating the practices we have seen in the past by commenting, interrupting and intervention when certain Members are debated by the President. The meeting was also convened that Tuesday, contrary to your promise, at the College of the President of the National Assembly to be convened on Thursday. We know that the presidents of the working bodies are simply coordinating with the President of the National Assembly on these matters, and we should. In the case of regular meetings, we even have a timetable for the classification of working bodies, so this is not the complete independence of the presidents. So, I, my first procedural one, of course, hope that, as President, you will ensure that at least this meeting will take place, under current and some normal circumstances, as well as that it will be possible or that further hearings in this House will be held under certain minimum democratic conditions and that you also discuss with the presidents of the working bodies, in particular some, to ensure that they will be [[sign for the end of the debate]] the treatment on the home work bodies as far as possible following the agreement reached in the previous term and that such abuses do not occur by the presidents of the working bodies.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u3	Dear fellow Matthew, you know this was not a procedural proposal. Now, I can go back to what's going on, and I can't, and the fact is we have to continue or start an extraordinary session today. Now, if you want, we can talk about it in four more eyes, and I can tell you what I think about the session. Maybe it's right for me to answer because you just told me that I didn't keep my promise that a working-body meeting would be convened on Thursday. Now, I dedicated this Thursday to my proposal, which was also accepted by the college, working bodies. It is true, however, that we all know that the presidents of the working bodies, either those who come from the coalition or those who come from the opposition, are independent, when calling on the working bodies and I, as President of the National Assembly, have no influence, I can of course suggest to them, but I cannot forbid them to call the working bodies at a certain time. So, the fact is that now, the working body has done its work, I think it's right and that today it's on the agenda or the intended implementation of this meeting. I suggest we go to point one and give our word to all those who have it. So we go to 1. Agenda item — Second defence of the Proposal for a Law on the Exploitation of Slovenia in the European Institute for Temporary Support for the Reduction of Risks of Unemployment in Extraordinary Ranges (SURA) after the outbreak of the COVID-19 under the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. We have a secretary of state, mag. Petra Ješovnika - [[advertising from the hall]] You can go, Mr Ješovnik, for a payphone - from the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u4	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The European Commission has proposed the creation of €100 billion of the heavy European solidarity instrument SURE, which aims to finance short-term schemes, to wait for work and to ensure the safety and health of workers, as well as self-employed persons, all with a view to preserving jobs, and to self-employed activities. For this purpose, on 19 May 2020 the Council of the European Union adopted a Regulation establishing a European Interim Support Instrument for the Mitigation of the Risks of Unemployment in Emergency Situations, short term referred to as the SUR. The SUR instrument is based on loans from the European Commission to Member States in order to provide financial assistance to manage the sudden and strong increase in actual and planned public expenditure in order to protect jobs. The funds for these loans are obtained by the European Commission by borrowing from international financial markets, and the Member States must provide EUR 25 billion of guarantees or guarantees for the obligations of other Member States under the loan and guarantee contracts they conclude with the European Commission. The amount of each Member State's guarantee depends on its share in the European Union's gross national agreement, with the Republic of Slovenia's share of 0.35 percentage points and EUR 88.1 million respectively. The SUR instrument is of a temporary nature and will only become available once all Member States provide an appropriate guarantee or guarantee. In order to ensure the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia and the conclusion of a guarantee agreement with the European Commission, the proposed law must be adopted in accordance with the constitutional requirement laid down in Article 149 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The implementation of the proposed law will not yet give rise to direct funding for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, as the guarantee assumes the risk of potential liability for the obligations of other Member States. [[Incomprehensible]] The payment obligation of the Republic of Slovenia would therefore arise if the Member State could not repay the loan to the European Commission and the European Commission would require all Member States to fulfil the obligations in its proportionate share instead of the Member State. The probability of such an event is very low. In addition, it is envisaged that the European Commission will first seek out the possibility of payment under the Union budget. Allow me to present the essential elements of the proposed law below. Despite the fact that the law is based on a regulation of the Council of the European Union, which is directly applicable by means of a proposal for a law, its provisions have been summarised to the extent necessary in order to satisfy the constitutional requirement for the determination or determination of the guarantee law. In this context, the provisions which regulate in detail the conduct of the European Commission and which do not affect the definition of the guarantee obligation have not been taken into account by the State on purpose. The guarantee under this Act is based on the insurance of obligations of other Member States under contractual loans. In addition, their guarantee obligations are secured if the individual Member State is unable to fulfil its guarantee obligation in the event of a guarantee being made. In our legal order this is an appropriate concept under the guarantees provided for in Article 116 of the Bond Code. The guarantee under this law is in any event limited to a total of EUR 88.1 million, which means that any repurchase under guarantees does not increase the envisaged potential liability of the Republic of Slovenia. The guarantee also applies under this law to the refinancing of the renewal or restructuring of the liabilities under the loan contracts. In the event of compliance with the guarantee obligation of the Republic of Slovenia, it shall obtain a regression claim to the Member State in the amount of the amount paid. The recovery process of the regression claim is managed by the European Commission. While the proposal for a law in this part departs from the regulation in the Public Finance Act, under which the Minister for Finance has the power to recover, the proposed solution has the basis in the Regulation of the Council of the European Union, which refers to the decisions of Regulation 2018/1046. For this Regulation lays down the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and lays down that the European Commission directly implements the financial assistance to which loans count to Member States. This solution has also been agreed between Member States in the text of the Guarantee Agreement and is therefore binding on Slovenia. The guarantee under this Act shall cease from the date on which all the loans are fully repaid, secondly when, in accordance with the Regulation, it is no longer possible to issue loans and thirdly when all the obligations of the RS as a marriage have been fully met, but no later than 31 December 2053, this final date shall take into account the maximum duration of the loans under the previous EFSM financial assistance mechanism, which amounted to 30 years and a period allowing for the obligation to grant loans and to separate the guarantee. Given that the proposed law provides the basis for the conclusion of the guarantee agreement with the European Commission, which is an essential article for the availability of the SUR Government instrument, it proposes to support the law. Thank you for your attention, Members of Parliament and Members. President, thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u5	The draft law was examined by the Committee on Finance. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. At its 40th urgent meeting, on 28 May, the Finance Committee considered the Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Instrument for Temporary Support of the Reduction of the Risks of Unemployment submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for Admission under Emergency Procedure. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the opening exhibition, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance presented the objectives, principles and main solutions to the bill. She explained that the European Commission had proposed the creation of a EUR 100 billion SURE instrument, which would mainly support short-term schemes and similar measures. Loans from the instrument will be based on guarantees from Member States of EUR 25 billion. In line with its share in the European Union's total gross national income, Slovenia will guarantee around 0.35% of the total amount or slightly more than €88 million. It stressed that direct financial obligations for the Republic of Slovenia would occur if Member States did not fulfil their obligations. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stated that the Service had drawn up a written opinion highlighting, inter alia, the ambiguity of Article 2 in the part relating to the determination of the guarantee quota for the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia and the lack of explanation of Article 5 providing for the termination of the guarantee. It explained that the amendments tabled addressed shortcomings in citing the Council Regulation of the European Union. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee expressed their support for the bill and presented their views. Individual members drew attention to vaguely certain obligations that could arise from the SURE instrument and the possibility of later conditionalities. Support was expressed for recent measures at European Union level that will address, at an appropriate level, the problems encountered in addressing the consequences of epidemics and thus burden Member States. It was noted that one of the most important measures to address the consequences of the epidemic showed subsidisation of reduced working time. This action will also present one key challenge in the future. In view of the extent of the resources allocated to the Republic of Slovenia for this measure and the estimated amount of loans to which it will be part of the SURE instrument, it can be concluded that the Republic of Slovenia has responded correctly when dealing with the consequences of the epidemic. The members and members of the Committee have asked questions concerning, in particular, the costs incurred by the Republic of Slovenia in relation to the instrument for the use of the funds envisaged by the instrument and the additional measures through which the available funds could be used effectively under the instrument. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance provided further clarifications on the concerns and issues raised in the debate. Among other things, she stressed that the amount that would belong to the Republic of Slovenia would also depend on domestic measures, those that were and those that would be adopted. Regarding the costs associated with the instrument, she explained that the assessment would be known and agreed upon when individual loans were concluded and the European Commission's borrowing conditions would be consistent with the European Commission's highest rating. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted amendments to Articles 1 and 2 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft law and on [[End of discussion warning sign]] I've accepted. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats, colleague of Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Apparently, thank God, the National Assembly is returning to operation in some normal contexts. I am surprised by this number of Members at this point in the agenda, this is not the custom and therefore, because of many things, my first thought is gratitude at this moment. Gratitude to all the people of our country who have and follow the instructions of the medical profession, instructions, government decrees and, of course, the laws of the National Assembly. I must not forget this place, and I would like to place particular emphasis on the services of the National Assembly, which have made it possible and worthy that no one in the National Assembly has been infected with the SARS-Cov-2 virus, which is a great deal of recognition for the services of our house. Now to the marriage. Under the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Instrument for Temporary Support on the Reduction of the Risks of Unemployment in Emergency Situations following the outbreak of COVID-19. After that, colleagues and colleagues, when solidarity at the level of the European Union seemed to have fallen completely, it is this solidarity, which is one of the important pillars on which the European Union stands, that we have recently, since the beginning of April, in fact, if I am precise, yet we have experienced and experience very important signals from the European Union, that we are getting extremely important instruments with which the Member States of the European Union can mitigate the consequences in their countries, which will be the major consequences of the COVID-19 epidemic. The European Commission has proposed the creation of a 100 billion heavy solidarity instrument of the SURE, which will help workers in the Member States of the European Union to keep their income and to survive businesses. For example, it will finance short-term schemes when workers work less and at least partially each country will pay them back lost income. This is an important instrument, and I am pleased and express the recognition of the Government or the Ministry of Finance which has drawn up this law, and I can say that the State of Slovenia is clearly among the first EU Member States to adopt the guarantee law that is necessary to bring such an instrument to life. What is the SURE instrument, in fact, and why is the Commission proposing it? The new Instrument for Temporary Support of Risk Reduction, for Unemployment in Emergency Situations, is designed to help protect jobs and workers affected by the coronary pandemic. We in New Slovenia will, of course, support this law because we estimate that we must do everything we can to keep the Slovenian economy alive. This economy, which in fact also finances the social state. If it fails, if the Slovenian economy is cooled down, then it will be difficult or impossible to finance a social state, that is in the direction or within the meaning of Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution. This SURE instrument will provide financial assistance in the form of loans from the European Union to Member States under very favourable conditions, as already said, of a total value of EUR 100 billion. These loans will make it easier for Member States to address sudden increases in public financial expenditure to maintain jobs. More specifically, Member States will be able to cover costs directly related to the introduction or extension or extension of national short-term schemes and other similar measures imposed on self-employed persons in response to the current coronary pandemic. And what, in fact, are the schedules of part-time work? Short-term schemes are programmes that, in certain circumstances, enable businesses facing economic difficulties to temporarily reduce the number of hours worked by their employees, and they receive public financial support for hours not paid. We want to make the most of this instrument, in fact, Slovenia, and our support is assured.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek. My friend Mark Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u10	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! The European Commission has proposed the creation of a 100 billion-euro solidarity facility, Sur. This instrument was established by the adoption of a regulation at European Union level, but its resources will only be available to all Member States to provide a guarantee of the risk borne by the European Union for loans. In other words, Slovenia will, on the basis of the law we are adopting today, sign a guarantee for the debts of other Member States. Slovenia's guarantee is limited to just over €88 million. It will bind us all until 31 December 2053. This does not mean that Slovenia will automatically receive loans, but that it will only have to ask the European Commission to determine the conditions, the interest rate and the repayment period for the loans. The loans to be distributed to members under this instrument are intended to maintain the income of workers and to keep businesses in the European Union. Money will be able to be used to finance part-time work, suspend work and similar measures to preserve the jobs and income of the population. In the SAB Group, we lack specific answers: how much funding will Slovenia request and what conditions will the European Commission set for it? Will it be eligible for the loan even though it guarantees loans from other Member States? In view of these unknowns, the question rightly arises to us what the actual price of such a loan will be, since we must also take into account the validity of the fact that the most affected countries, such as Italy and Spain, will not be able to repay their debts and will also be paid by Slovenia on the basis of the guarantee in question. The fact is that the Sur instrument does not provide grants, but loans. However, each loan represents an additional State debt. Even now, the country's debt is record, reaching 82.4 % of gross domestic product. The debts we create today remain for the next generation – our children, our grandchildren. For the risk of excessive indebtedness in connection with the Covid-19 epidemic, we are warned by the profession. We can understand the same concerns from the opinion of the Council of State and even from the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. This expressed concern for the constitutional principle of the social state, which will require the State to provide the social minimum for the next generations. And yes, even the views of the SAB Group are focused on the fear of social rights, pensions and salaries for which we are and will always fight. The guarantee replaces Member States' cash contributions to improve credit quality and consequently prevent a poorer credit rating, an assessment of the European Union. A poor rating means poorer terms of the loan. Regardless of all the unknowns regarding the potential loan, we want to enable Slovenia to obtain a loan under the best possible conditions. We will therefore support the proposal of the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, colleague Robert Polnar, is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The establishment of a European Instrument for Temporary Support to mitigate the risks of unemployment in emergency situations follows the fundamental test of subsidising working time in the European Union's economic system. Realisation of this review will have a mitigating effect on the public spending of individual countries. At first glance, the purpose of the economic system seems to be reasonable and is usually viewed as such. Its main objective is to provide people with products and services. Such an attitude is simple, valued and rather unilateral. It is on the palm of the hand that no sane person with basic civilisational well-being will act in a way that threatens a system that also provides him with the indispensable material basis. Economic history has shown us convincingly that, in particular, in the last century, processes have developed in which more and more economic functions have begun to be carried out by different organisations. Industrial enterprises, energy companies, trading chains, banks, media networks, state and public bureaucracy. Some of these organizations are very large, so hardly anyone doubts that they have much power and influence, this being the right ability to manage individual efforts and efforts of the state. Organisations work by satisfying their own interests, as we know they are the interests of individuals involved in their operations as employees or as owners. The objectives of these organizations are usually identical to those of the public, thanks to the rapid miracle or deliberately challenged. However, when such a miracle is missing, something happens that cannot surprise us, wherever and whenever different interests, organizations, and the public are confronted, they are weighed and the interests of the organizations are realized. The function of the economic system from this angle is no longer unilateral, at least not in the eyes of the one who wants to see the reality of the phenomenon. Indeed, in the wide variety of its activities, the economic system also serves the individual and the public in part, and largely fulfils the needs of its own organisations. In Slovenia, the economic system is called capitalism. Capitalism also assumes, in addition to the formal norms of the Constitution and laws, a certain relationship to money, to work, to profit and to entrepreneurship. Capitalism comes from the power and success of its institutions and principles. Capitalism created without the assumption of a regulated society in terms of fundamental integrity, the rule of law and social solidarity must acquire such values if it is to remain comparable on a global scale. In capitalism facing a crisis, the country must be a neutral instrument of regulation and must by no means be transformed into a way of extracting funds that are arbitrarily distributed. The responsibility for the situation of capitalist companies is therefore primarily in the hands of their owners and managers. But it can't possibly be in the hands of the state. Slovenia will receive from the sure instrument favourable loans to finance a national short-term scheme with which it wants to maintain as many jobs as possible in the national economic system. We rightly expect that the debt under the most favourable conditions at that time will facilitate public debt repayment during the period of economic recovery and reduce the deficit for future state budgets. For these two reasons, after our assessment of the key reasons, Members of the Desus Group will also support the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Instrument for Temporary Support for Risk Mitigation for Unemployment in Emergency Situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u13	Thank you. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, a colleague of mags. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u14	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! Proposal for a Council Regulation establishing a European Instrument for Temporary Support to reduce the risk of unemployment in the emergency situation now ahead of us. Its main purpose of the proposed instrument is to lay down rules that will allow the Union to provide financial assistance to a Member State facing a serious economic disturbance caused by or threatened by the COPID-19 crisis, namely to finance work with shorter working hours or similar measures to protect employees and self-employed persons in order to reduce unemployment and loss of income. The instrument complements the national measures taken by the affected Member States by providing financial assistance to manage the sudden and significant increase in actual, possibly also planned, public expenditure to mitigate the direct economic and negative social effects of the exceptional circumstances caused by the outbreak of COVID-19. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that subsidising working time is one of the most important measures in the exit strategy against the COVID-19 virus. We are convinced that the subsidised part of the working time and the SURE instrument proposed by the European Commission and the European Union to help Member States is also an important instrument for both employers and employers. We will support the proposal in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u15	The text is given by the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc, a colleague of Andrej Zabret.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u16	Dear President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! There is no doubt that the proposal for a guarantee law, which we are considering today, is essential to ensure the establishment of a European SURE instrument. The instrument will thus enable the State to apply for a loan at European Union level, which will contribute to the financing of the short-term scheme and similar measures. The funds from the SURE instrument can thus be used by the Republic of Slovenia if they are authorised by the European Union to mitigate the consequences of the COVID-19 crisis in the field of employment. If the State wished to borrow the loan itself on the market, it would be more expensive for it. The negative effects of the COVID-19 crisis are indicated by data from the unemployed. Compared to the number of unemployed persons in March and April, we can see that in April there were 13.9% more unemployed than in March. That is why solidarity between Member States is so much more important, which will contribute to the creation of the SURE instrument. The credit borrowed by the European Commission on behalf of the European Union will thus be more favourable and will allow Member States to apply for a loan. However, in order to enable Member States to make use of the SURE instrument, it is important that Member States provide a guarantee for the loan. For these purposes, we are also considering today the proposal for a guarantee law establishing a European instrument. Slovenia will thus provide a guarantee of EUR 88 million. However, the Minister of Finance estimates that some €900 million for Slovenia will be expected to mitigate the consequences of the COVID-19 crisis in the area of employment. Nevertheless, a few things need to be highlighted in the consideration of the proposed law. We have received the draft law to the National Assembly together with a proposal for a decision establishing the inadmissibility of an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum which can become constitutionally controversial if adopted. This is also the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. It should be recalled that the adoption of the proposed decision would lead to non-compliance with the first indent of Article 9 of the Constitution. Last but not least, I would like to point out my concern that, in the position of the Republic of Slovenia, we have not discussed the proposal for a Council regulation establishing a European SURE instrument based on which today's proposal for a guarantee law was based on which we did not discuss it on the Committee on European Union Affairs. We are aware of the urgency of the procedure, but we have received a position in the National Assembly only for a briefing. We received our position in the National Assembly on 8 May, while discussing the proposal for a Council regulation establishing the European Instrument for SURE only on 15 May. The EU Council then adopted a regulation in writing on 19 May and would have had sufficient time to take note of the position of the Republic of Slovenia with regard to the proposed regulation. On the other hand, the Government could send a position to the National Assembly as a proposal for a position on the proposed Council regulation establishing the European instrument SURE, so that Members could not only discuss the EU Affairs Committee but also vote on the proposed position of the Republic of Slovenia. Regulations are transposed directly into the Member States within the framework of EU legislative acts, and a single country cannot then amend a regulation that has already been adopted. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we also point out certain shortcomings in the consideration of the proposed law, but we are aware of the importance of establishing a European SURE instrument to which the guarantee relates, so we will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u17	The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats. My friend Jani Prednik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u18	Dear President, all gathered. The bill we have before us is one of three, in the third, so called, against the crown package, as the Government calls its proposals. The specific law itself does not bring about new measures. This is the completion of the Slovenian guarantee for the pan-European financial instrument SURE, from which countries will be able to draw on loans to finance programmes to finance employment conservation programmes. In order to participate in the programmes Slovenia cooperates with its guarantee of EUR 88 million. Subsequently, it will be possible to hire loans for the implementation of programmes aimed at curbing the growing unemployment resulting from the global pandemic of the new virus. According to its description, the financial instrument is intended to finance many of the programmes already implemented by Member States — subsidisation, waiting for work and reduced working time, basic income for the most affected groups, and other subsidies for the economy and employers to maintain employment and business processes as much as possible. Your Honor, this is not the so-called helicopter money that was talked about at the beginning of the pandemic. This isn't about fresh money in the system. It is a matter of adjusting the budget of the European Union to ensure the lending capacity supported by countries through their guarantees. The guarantee in the programme provides us with the possibility of drawing on funds, but not favourable loans. The Minister of Finance has even publicly mentioned the possibility that we will not use this programme if more expensive money is available on the market. Important information at the time of the adoption of this law is also that the SURE programme will be able to finance most of the programmes that we have already adopted in Slovenia. Since this is a financial guarantee, this means that the approach to the programme itself does not guarantee us anything yet. The Government of each country is responsible for preparing, implementing, drawing on money and final impact. However, success is often not determined by content, but by approach and working methods. We're afraid that the current government is going to drop out on this one. The law itself, which provides access to financial resources from the title, at least minimum European solidarity, will be supported in the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u19	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, a colleague of mags. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, President. It's a very nice greeting for all of us. Your Honor! The consequences of the Covid-19 outbreak are strongly reflected at all levels of society in the Republic of Slovenia. For the euro area as a whole, the first indicators already indicate a sharp decline in economic activity and a deterioration in the labour market. The Republic of Slovenia, as part of the euro area, is already facing negative consequences that require rapid action to protect particularly vital parts of its economy, as Banka Slovenije has announced that there is a high probability of a strong fall in economic activity this year, as we have seen at the beginning of the previous global economic and financial crisis. Companies had to limit their activities at the time of the epidemic, some even temporarily closing their doors. Among the strategic measures to help the economy are key measures that will enable businesses to revive their investment activities and thus maintain jobs. The European Commission has proposed the creation of €100 billion of a heavy solidarity tool of the SURE, which will help workers in EU Member States to maintain their income and help businesses to survive. The SURE instrument will finance short-term schemes when workers work less time and at least partially reimburses employers. Loans will be based on guarantees provided by Member States and can be used by all Member States, but in particular they will be important for the more affected countries. Companies will be able to temporarily reduce the number of working hours or suspend work while receiving financial support from the country for work not done. Self-employed persons will receive compensation for the current emergency situation. In the SMC Group, we keep abreast of the situation and are aware of the importance of taking effective measures. The whole of all measures taken so far must facilitate the situation of the economy and thus protect the situation of employees. The purpose of this proposal is to provide EU financial assistance in the form of temporary loans to support Member States facing serious economic disruptions due to emergency situations resulting from the outbreak of the COVID-19 epidemic. This bill is one in a series of measures that will help us to reduce the negative consequences of the situation. With these measures, we must ensure the protection of citizens, the economy and ultimately the countries. For this reason, in the SMC Group, we will support this bill, because in our view it constitutes a measure in the right direction to mitigate the negative effects on society as a whole. Finally, this also means a job conservation measure for our citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u21	The word is given by the Left Party, a colleague of Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u22	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. I'll be a little wider in my position. The problem with the European Union, in particular the euro area, is that these are not solidarity areas, that they do not have any solidarity mechanisms in place in times of crisis. If I start with an anecdotes. Former US Finance Minister Larry Summers asked the end of the 90s of European finance ministers, who had established the euro area at the time, what had happened in the euro area if, for example, there was a banking crisis in a country. Who will answer, who will bear the costs, the responsibilities of the European Central Bank or everything will fall on the country no matter how small, how indebted or how financially weak it is? Unsurprisingly, his question in the hall aroused silence. There was no answer because they simply counted on the euro as it was set up, and then they would build it up over time so that it would not be just a ship for a good time, but that it would be able to carry the storm. Decades later, when the storm came, it turned out there was no such thing. When French President Nicolas Sarkozy convened the Presidents of the Government, the four most powerful European economies in France, Germany, Great Britain and Italy in 2008, and tried to prevent what was already somehow done at that time, the real European financial disaster and Sarkozy proposed the establishment of a European Solidarity Fund of between 300 and 500 billion euros to address the financial crisis together, Angela Merkel took a short step out of this meeting, and Sarkozy was upset by the journalists after that meeting. He was a bit vulgar in his recognizable style, and he said to me, "Chacun from the Merde!", which means in free translation, let everyone eat their shit. And that's what happened in the next few years. We were 10 years old in Europe when there was no European solidarity. In Europe, the European Central Bank was not allowed to finance the Member States and their debts under its Statute, the European funds for a long time were gone or, as established by the ESM, this was established in a way that, if you wanted to receive assistance from it as a country, as Varufakis said, you had to set up Greece for every euro because they had prescribed such strict austerity measures, so that there were only two options left for countries, radical savings and debt, and therefore we saw a deep recession in Europe over the past decade, which had dragged virtually through 2015 and enormous government debt leaps. The reason is that there was no European solidarity. And now I'm coming to this mechanism of SURE. We support this mechanism in Levica because we have always advocated solidarity between European solutions and this is some kind of substitute. But he's got his own problems. The first problem is that this thing is essentially too small. EUR 100 billion for all European economies in the face of the high crisis that we now have is dripping into the sea. Secondly, the problem is that the debts that the countries will rent under this SURE mechanism will still be entered into state debt and will be repaid. It is true, however, that by means of joint guarantees, we will allow all of us to owe each other less money and that interest will not return to the sky. Finally, I would like to say something else about euro skepticism. Yesterday, I came across this criticism on the board. In Levi, we were never Euro skeptics. But we were often critical of Brussels, Frankfurt and Berlin, but we were not critical of them because they would unite Europe, but because they destroyed Europe. And today, when we look at Orbans, Salvinia and others that scare Europe, these euro sceptics are children of German fiscal hawks, those people in European institutions that have prescribed radical austerity programmes and all governments and their financial ministers in the last decade, who have denied European solidarity, most notably in the case of Greece, where the fate of the European Union has essentially been forged. We hope this time it'll be different. The SURE mechanism is a substitute, but the real hope is in fact a 750 billion-dollar fund and a budget of a thousand 100 billion, announced by the European Commission. Of course, we must wait for this to happen to the Member States.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u23	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the other hand, this is a proposal for an Intervention Law for the Elimination of Obstacles in the implementation of significant investments in the economic agenda after the epidemic of the cvid-19 in the context of the urgent procedure. The bill was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr. Metka Gorišek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u24	Your Honor! Good-bye, everyone! I would simply briefly summarize the essential objectives and the communication of this law that this law has no financial implications, perhaps at the beginning. Not to introduce new projects in any field or priority. In principle, it governs only the removal of administrative barriers, which in most cases are in the Ministry of the Environment and Space for the award or review or the coordination of applications for the acquisition of a building permit or placement in the environment and free. This law will somehow allow a transparent, coordinated work of all those who are co-operators within the Ministry of the Environment and also with the cooperation of the other departments, not to affect their sovereign work as self-employed workers, but to coordinate the work of these co-operators, to be coordinated, coordinated, to review all applications within the deadlines envisaged elsewhere and to ensure that, in the event of incompleteness, each one is properly justified and coordinated with the investor. Therefore, there will be no unnecessary correspondence or re-establishment of applications indefinitely. We have done an analysis at our ministry, and we have found a sad situation that some of our applications have been close to us for decades or the biggest problem has been with environmental consensus and also with integrated permits, and certainly with building permits, but also with State spatial plans. The two criteria are the main ones, which will somehow help the coordination group to identify the priority treatment of these applications, depending on the stage at which we or the review takes place, first consider the applications that could obtain a building permit by the end of 2020 and then by the end of 2021 and then accelerate the state spatial plans for larger investments, which is a third priority list. These investments, of course, are also expected to have completed financial structures, it is said that 2020, end 2020, 2021, but not only state projects, because they are private investments, local community projects and resources are also, I will say, all the resources listed as providing financial structures are from domestic funds, budgets, municipal, state and European funding programmes. The other thing that matters is that this law does not affect any other law, it is said that not everything, all laws are consistently followed, only procedures are promoted. Thirdly, it is also very important that this money, because the purpose of this law is to speed up the economy with some construction interventions into a space that has a multiple impact on other activities, to apply in essence the European Commission guidelines on the participation of tenderers and third-country goods in the EU public procurement market, that is to say that only countries having an signed agreement or reciprocity with the European Commission can apply to public procurement. This means that it is said that we will no longer allow any unfair offers from third countries, which, of course, also prevent some loyal competition from domestic suppliers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Bojan Pod oblast.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u26	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 30th emergency meeting. 5. 2020 as a parent labour body considered the draft intervention law to remove obstacles to the implementation of significant investments to start the economy following the COPID-19 epidemic, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly following an emergency procedure. On behalf of the proposer, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, Dr Metka Gorišek, stressed that the basic objective of the bill was to ensure an effective start-up of the investment cycle at the end of the COVID-19 epidemic and to prevent serious economic damage in order to accelerate the activities of the construction sector and associated service activities. The draft law thus contains criteria for determining important investments for the start-up of the economy after the epidemic, lays down the way in which licences and decisions are operated and coordinated on the basis of rules and the conditions for removing obstacles and the effective implementation of important investments. It pointed out that the draft law lays down the criteria for determining the significant investments to be determined by the Government. These include criteria that ensure that important investments are made and that national transport, energy, economic and development infrastructure and the environment policies and programmes are implemented or that they pursue strategic policy objectives and the European Cohesion Policy and other financial mechanisms of the European Union in all areas. The bill also provides for the establishment of a coordination group appointed by the Minister responsible for the environment. Its purpose is primarily to accelerate and coordinate the implementation of implementation procedures into space and the environment and procedures related to the implementation of important investments. For the purpose of carrying out these tasks, the Coordination Group shall set out three priority lists and a list of priority investments to be identified by the Government by a decision. In the debate by most discussers, the importance of investing in major infrastructure and construction projects for the mitigation and effects of the COVID-19 epidemic on the Slovenian economy is highlighted. In particular, the importance of the construction sector, which has a multiplier effect on more than 40% of the Slovenian economy, in particular the supply chain and the wider service sector, has been highlighted by coalition groups. In particular, it was pointed out that the solutions contained in the proposal for a law meant to skip the procedures in force, to place projects in the premises or procedures for obtaining a building permit and also not to exclude non-governmental organisations from these procedures. The purpose of the bill is simply to remove the anomalies in the placement of projects in a place where some specific projects are unreasonable for 10 or more years. Strong opposition to the bill's proposals was expressed in the leftist Group. Because they consider it another law in the anti-Korona legislation package, which is a reduction of environmental standards in the planning or placement of large infrastructure projects in the area of this construction, NGOs want to limit them as much as possible. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, however, it was pointed out that investments guaranteed by the State should also be included in the priority lists. The Law on the implementation of the RS budget for 2020 and 2021 includes the construction of a second track, the construction of a third development axis, and guarantees for citizens’ credits, which for the first time solves the housing issue and its form of employment, or the amount of income, does not make it possible to obtain credit on its own. After discussion, the Committee adopted the amendments of the coalition groups and voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek, a colleague of mags. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u28	Dear President, guests! The intervention law to remove obstacles to the implementation of important investments for the start-up of the economy in the COVID-19 epidemic follows the principle of an effective start-up of the investment cycle at the end of the epidemic and prevents serious economic damage. To this end, the proposal provides for the establishment of a coordination group with the decision of the Ministry responsible for the environment and space. This group will be responsible for classifying important investments in priority lists on the basis of the criteria contained in the proposal. The aim of the proposal is thus to accelerate the acquisition of opinions, consensus and other administrative acts related to the construction of buildings and the effective functioning of public authorities in the procedures necessary for the implementation of important investments. The proposal for a law has limited validity up to 31. 12. 2021. So these are projects that already have funding and are practically ready to be implemented. That means they're about to issue a building permit. The epidemic has had a strong impact on economic activity and thus on the loss of many jobs. It could be said that the situation is comparable to that of 2013 and 2014. At the time, the then President of the Government, Alenka Bratušek, with the necessary measures and intensive use of European funds, started to implement a number of projects that improved the quality of life in many parts of Slovenia, ensured continuous economic growth, which continued until the current crisis. In the SAB party, we are aware that infrastructure is the one that strengthens the geostrategic position of our country and provides the economy with a strategic advantage. We also proved this at a time when the Ministry of Infrastructure was headed by Alenka Bratušek. After decades of uncertainty and on-the-spot stepping, it finally accelerated the Second track and Third Axis development projects currently considered a priority project infrastructure in the country. At the beginning of this week, the Constitutional Court also confirmed the appropriateness of the Law of guarantee. This was a victory over those forces that made great efforts to stop the development of Slovenia. In the SAB party, we are aware that to properly maintain and update the Slovenian state transport infrastructure, nearly 6,000 kilometres of long road network and more than a thousand 200 kilometres of distributed rail network, at least EUR 200 million per year is required. Also in the area of Maribor and northeast Slovenia where I come from, this is why we receive a number of investments in infrastructure. It will also be with 1. 7. more than 600 000 pensioners, available free cross-border passenger transport throughout Slovenia. That is why we were so surprised that the new Government, at the founding meeting of the Ministry of Infrastructure due to the epidemic, took away 130 million euros and redistributed them. That is why we have requested in the SAB the establishment of a special single Covid item in the budget and the parliamentary supervisory commission, where all transfers of funds would be published and transparent. This is a large number of funds and there is a question on which projects have actually been taken away or which projects have been put at risk. That is why we have tabled in the legislative procedure the proposal for a law on the budget fund for investment in transport infrastructure. Our proposal would ensure predictable and stable funding and planning for the necessary investments. For this reason, we have proposed to provide over two key items for the financing of the budget fund – existing annual road transport duties and additional two percentage points of value added tax. Those two percentage points that have been in place since the previous financial crisis. In the SAB Group, we know how important state investments have an impact on the start-up of the economy and consequently on the standard of living of our fellow citizens, so we will not oppose the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u29	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, colleague Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the National Assembly, we are considering a proposal for an intervention law to remove obstacles in the implementation of important investments to start the economy after the Covid-19 epidemic. The law will apply to all important investments that are crucial to the start-up of the economy after the Covid-19 epidemic has ceased. It is decided that the investment solutions of the Law are valid for more than EUR 5 million. Important investments will therefore be made in the implementation of national transport, energy, economic infrastructure and the environment, agriculture, housing, health care, home care, housing, education and education, sport and science, defence, public administration, culture, internal and external affairs and justice. The promotion of important investments will also be pursued where the objectives of the strategic policies and programmes of the European Cohesion Policy 2014-2020 and 2021-2027 and the other financial mechanisms of the European Union 20201-2027 will be pursued in all areas. will be specified in the decision of the Government. Priority will be given on the basis of the law to promote the acceleration of investments that have secured funding by the end of 2020 and will be followed by investments that have secured funding by the end of 2021. Investments in the third priority list must be placed in the strategic documents of individual ministries, require the preparation of state spatial plans and whose planned budget value is a minimum of EUR 25 million. Under the law, a list of investments that will have priority treatment with the competent authorities will be provided for a total of EUR 500 million. The draft law regulates the establishment of a coordination group responsible for the accelerated and coordinated implementation of important investments, which will be effective. They will shorten deadlines and ensure priority treatment in the event of legal disputes against administrative acts related to the implementation of important investments. As a result, we expect faster start-up of important investments. In the Desus Group, we expect, on the basis of Minister Viszak's statements, that important investments will be in the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the Lower Sava, that is to say the construction of the Mokrica hydroelectric power plant and the long-awaited construction of hydroelectric power plants on the Central Sava. By accelerating investment, we can expect a faster start-up of the economy, which will have a very positive impact on employment and, on the other hand, on a smaller decline in economic growth. For all of this, in the Desus Group, we will support the proposal of the Intervention Act to remove obstacles in the implementation of the importance of investments for the start-up of the economy following the COVID-19 epidemic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u31	The Member Group of the Slovenian National Party, colleague Dušan Šiško, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u32	Dearly beloved, good-bye to all present! At the time of the coronavirus, most of the sectors were sinking, and now the moment has come when the country, as a whole, needs to correct itself as soon as possible and get on its feet so that we do not fall further. One of the sectors is construction, where it would be necessary to move something in the area of housing for young people, homes for older citizens and so on. Appetizers to accelerate the implementation of important investments at the level of the country, municipalities, the private sector are enormous. Workers working in construction have been waiting since March for work, took advantage of last year’s vacation, even fired, and some have done well to continue as if they were immune to everything. The intervention law is expected to be applied by the end of next year, and the question is how many of these important investments will actually be realised and how many will remain. We all knew quietly that this situation would occur, because the economic crisis, the recession, is a logical consequence of all these measures, restrictions, exacerbations both previous and current governments. So now is not the time to wait for work, work from home, but to move on and more so that it will be easier for us. The labour market situation needs to improve. Gross domestic product must be raised and so on. It is therefore essential to accelerate the activity of the construction sector in order to go fully into trade, transport and the automotive industry. The Slovenian economy needs rapid development towards advanced industries. In the Slovenian National Party, we proposed a series of measures in a written letter to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, including simplification of administrative procedures, which means a thorough reduction of bureaucratic barriers to building permits, which will help investors, the construction sector and the wider sector. The effective functioning of the judicial branch of government where the smooth functioning of the judiciary ensures a solid and evolving society and strengthens confidence in the legal system. Investments by citizens where bonds could issue municipalities and states and fund local and state infrastructure projects with money. In fact, I still believe that the country will not be able to launch an economic turnover from the budget with all the assistance of the economy and the population by investing in large infrastructure projects. It is now also appropriate for the country to make greater use of the public private partnership for state and regional infrastructure projects where it is intended to cooperate with neighbouring countries on transport infrastructure, energy, waste management, etc. We can also finance these to a greater extent with private capital, where, in addition to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, domestic and foreign institutional investors can also be able to do so, as there has been a long-standing practice abroad. The shortening of deadlines and the prioritisation of administrative disputes against administrative acts is also a very important objective, linked to the implementation of important investments. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we will support the amendment of the intervention law because a priori contributes to maintaining and creating new jobs in companies, preventing the deterioration of the socio-economic situation of the population and socially disadvantaged groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u33	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, colleague Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u34	Thank you, Madam President, once again for your word. The basic objective of the bill is to ensure an effective start to the investment cycle at the end of the COVID-19 epidemic and to prevent serious economic damage in order to accelerate the activities of the construction sector and associated service activities. The draft law thus contains criteria for determining important investments for the start-up of the economy after the epidemic, provides for a way of functioning and coordination on the procedures for obtaining licences, opinions and decisions on the basis of the sectoral rules and the conditions for removing obstacles and the effective implementation of important investments. The draft law lays down the criteria for determining the important investments to be determined by the Government by the decision, namely the criteria that ensure that important investments are made in the implementation of national transport, energy, economic infrastructure and the environment policies and programmes of the European Cohesion Policy and other financial mechanisms of the European Union in all areas. The bill also provides for the establishment of a coordination group appointed by the Minister responsible for the environment. In particular, it will accelerate and coordinate the implementation of procedures, placement in space and the environment and procedures related to the implementation of important investments. For the purpose of carrying out these tasks, the Coordination Group shall establish three lists from the lists of significant investments to be determined by the Government by a decision. [[Incomprehensible]] The purpose of the bill is simply to remove the anomalies in placing projects in a place where certain concrete projects or procedures wait unreasonablely for ten or more years. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are all aware of the major bureaucratic obstacles that burden these procedures, projects and in the SDS we will certainly support this law, we are convinced that this is the first step in making these procedures much shorter, and that investments will be launched, and we would also appeal on behalf of the SDS Group to all those who are doing these procedures, to be aware of this and to be most successful in the development of the Slovenian economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u35	Thank you. The text is given by the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc. My friend Edward Paulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u36	Dear President, Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. In the LMŠ Group, we welcome the thought of how to put the economy back on its feet after the epidemic. We are aware that this is a difficult process, so it would be important to think about it by the time a picture of the negative impact on the economy that this epidemic has already caused and will do. It is difficult to predict how the virus will affect economic activity in the future, but it is clear that the economy already needs strong incentives from the country. This is a fact that has also been embodied by the most zealous advocates of the free market, and that is why, in the LMŠ, weeks ago, we presented our plan to restart the economy after the epidemic. In doing so, we have focused mainly on promoting domestic consumption. On the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, we have therefore proposed an amendment to give priority to projects for which the State has provided guarantees in the 2020 and 2021 Budget Implementation Act. This is the second track, the third development axis and the solution to the housing problem of young people. We are convinced that these projects are extremely important for the country, so we appeal to the coalition Members to be supported today. On the other hand, in our view, the law does not show how it will even allow for faster implementation of investment projects. The law provides for the establishment of a specific coordination group to be responsible for the speedy implementation of all procedures, but does not define whether this is the conduct of an administrative procedure or any other competence of that group. The legislative and legal service also draws attention to the ambiguity of these provisions in its opinion. We must be aware that the administrative body which is in charge of the procedure and decides on it is, inter alia, bound by the principle of legality and the principle of autonomy of the Authority, which means that the specific coordination group provided for in this law should not interfere with the work of the administrative authority. Given that the main purpose of the law is for the coordination group to accelerate the implementation of infrastructure projects, its competences are prescribed on a fragmented basis, even if we really do not want to interfere with the constitutional principles of the legality and independence of the administrative body. If I go back to the substantive part of the law. In the LMŠ Group, in particular, we want the Government to draw up an investment programme on the basis of the recovery programme recently published by the European Commission. With €5 billion, we could co-finance strategic priorities in the area of digitisation, green breakthrough and technological breakthrough. Above all, we should encourage short-term demand. This can be done by encouraging household investments in energy rehabilitation of buildings, by accelerating public investment in social infrastructure, such as kindergartens, schools and hospitals, and by accelerating large infrastructure projects such as the second track and third development axis. Finally, in the LMŠ Group we welcome the statutory provision which provides for mandatory application of the European Commission guidelines on the participation of third-country operators. In doing so, it is essential that a provider from a third country who does not comply with European, social and labour standards can be excluded from the procurement process and that our domestic companies can be much more competitive in the implementation of major infrastructure projects. We only hope that the latter will not constitute another additional ground of appeal, but that these guidelines will truly achieve their purpose, with final multiplier effects on our economy. In the LMŠ Group, the proposal for a law [[sign for the end of the debate]] We won't argue.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u37	Thank you. The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats. Comrade Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues. As part of the third package of anti-Korona legislative proposals, the government has drawn up a proposal for a law to draw up obstacles to the implementation of important investments for the start-up of the economy. The title of the law itself gives us some doubt. Regrettably, they are even bigger when the government has acted so far when it has almost closed its doors to NGOs in monitoring procedures for obtaining construction and other permits for new investments in the Law on Conservation of Nature and Other Anti-Corona Legislative Packages. The objectives that the Government wants to pursue with this bill are at first sight welcome, as they go in the direction of the investment cycle, the country, the municipalities and the private sector. The proposed solutions, however, shorten the deadlines for complaints in legal proceedings and the procedures for the implementation of important investments will be dealt with as a matter of priority. Social Democrats are thus of the view that investments are the right answer for the new start-up of the economy, but not the way the government proposes. Moreover, such hand-to-handling is very harmful and the consequences can be largely irreversible, because once the investment is realised the environmental consequences will be difficult or impossible to remedy. And that can put us on the wheel of the environment and the people of the harmful investments, even more. Ask [[?]] However, the appropriate placement of such investments may be subsequently signed by any constitutional assessment and, finally, by European regulation. As we say, the marriage novelty, in our view, is only a continuation of the way the ruling coalition works and thinks - that we will not be misunderstood - in the Group of Social Democrats we say that it is clear to the investment that would or will give impetus to our economy. We also give decisive not to those who will overwhelm environmental standards and civil control and potentially trigger a series of long-term and extremely harmful consequences. Nor will they be able to compensate for such good multiplier effects of investment. The lack of such a proposal has also been pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service, again, again. There are thus many issues and concerns that remain open, and thus there are more dangers than ensuring the benefits of such a rapid legislative fast-tracking over authorised and established rules. The consequences, however, can be as fatal as any headless overcoming. We do not challenge needlessly, especially when we are faced with the dilemma of two good political decisions, investments and environmental protection. We are for both investments and environmental protection, together, not for investments or for environmental protection. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u39	The text is by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, colleague Gregor Perič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u40	Thank you, President. Good-bye, everyone. So in the SMC Group, we will support the proposal of this intervention law. As you know, the Government, led by the SMC, has established a government project group or office and the purpose of this office has been to establish a central coordinator at the level of the state administration, which provides support to the ministries as carriers of government strategic development projects in their preparation and implementation. The primary task of the office was to monitor and monitor the implementation of projects and to actively cooperate in the resolution of congestion. And this proposal of the law, in a very similar way, ensures a coordinated and accelerated implementation of the country's important investments. The law regulates the establishment of a specific coordination group responsible for this. This, however, will not work at the level of the Government as the government's project office mentioned, but it will be attended by representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space as the main institution and representatives of other ministries. This group will also be responsible for coordinating the procedures for obtaining licences, opinions and decisions on the basis of the sectoral rules. As a key novelty and advantage of this law, however, we stress the priority of handling procedures, shortening deadlines and prioritising administrative disputes against administrative acts. However, the provisions of Article 11 of this Law, which we are not mistaken about, for the first time in the field of public procurement in Slovenia, provide for the mandatory application of the guidelines of the European Commission on the participation of third-country suppliers in the EU public procurement market. Above all, if the purpose of the law is also the pursuit of economic activity or activity. In view of the risk of competition between non-European construction companies, notably Chinese and Turkish, the European Council called on the European Commission and the members to act because they must protect their interests in the light of the unfair practices of third countries, fully using trade protection instruments and our procurement rules and ensuring effective reciprocity in public procurement with third countries. To this end, last year the European Commission issued the guidelines already mentioned and these guidelines give EU members the possibility to exclude tenderers who either do not have access to the EU public procurement market, to take measures in the event of offers at abnormally low prices and to demand that providers from third countries take into account the same quality as suppliers in the EU. They also make it possible to ensure that only companies from among the signatories to the government procurement agreement concluded within the framework of the World Trade Organisation can participate in public tenders. With the amendment, we have highlighted in particular the commitment to apply every time a collective contract of construction activities with the same rights for employees as employees with the undertakings of this collective agreement. Due to the crisis, the importance of local suppliers, local suppliers and short supply chains is even more important. In the case of the selection of a foreign contractor and a subcontractor, most of the value of the investment flows abroad, and we can also face similar problems which, due to the inability of Turkish workers to come into the construction of another caravan tunnel, are faced by DARS. In the SMC, we are confident that this bill will help to make investments as soon as possible, which will also contribute to the recovery of the Slovenian economy, which is expected to fall significantly this year, due to the large multiplier effects of construction on the whole economy and the European Commission's guidelines mentioned above. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u41	The word is given by the Left Parliamentary Group, colleague Željko Cigler.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u42	Dear President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In Levi, we find that the law we are considering today is completely empty. Although we speak and stress the importance of investment for future development, in particular economic start-up and economic Slovenia. [[Incomprehensible]] We have a law on important investments, which states only that important investments are determined by the Government of Janez Janša, on the proposal of Minister Andrej Visiak for the environment and space. Some loose criteria have been set for these projects to pursue the strategic objectives of national policies from virtually all existing areas, except social ones. That the minimum value of an investment is EUR 5 million and that we have three priority lists. We do not know practically anything from the law about the investments that this law is intended to accelerate. The list of these investments is to be prepared only after the adoption of this law, but in fact this list already exists. This is not even too much to hide and on the list of 57 investments is the personal project of Minister Andrej Visiak, the Hydroelectrica Mokrice. It is followed by a hydroelectric power plant on Drava with remote control, gas pipeline from Vodice to thermal power plant and from Ajdovščina to Lucija, a warehouse for low and medium radioactive waste, ten road sections, three railway sections, 80 housing projects, a national university library and a prison in Bizovic. A list that was yet to be drawn up after the adoption of the law was to a large extent already written, even though it may change at some point because of the very vaguely written law. That the law is very empty and inappropriate is not a coincidence. The only function of this law is to create with it a legal basis on which it will justify major construction projects that have been lobbyed and pursued by energy, road, construction and other lobbying in Slovenia. With the adoption of this law, Minister Vizjak is essentially doing what he forgot in his first list of major construction projects, which he compiled as Minister of Economy in the first Janšev government. This is in 2006 when a resolution on national development projects was adopted for the period 2007 to 2023, which gave in essence only a list of the mega-Romanian construction projects to be carried out by the State within 15 years. Among them were an artificial island in the form of a dolphin in front of the coast of Izola, Megalaxia amusement park in Prekmurje, the second block of Nuclearke and what is the most important sixth block of Thermal Power Plant Šostjanj. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia concluded less than half a year after the adoption of this resolution that it was adopted by Janševa's first government, that it is neither a regulation nor a general act issued for the exercise of public powers and is not in fact part of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. It is only a list of wishes of Janez Janša, and yet this list of wishes then served as the basis on which all the later governments also apologized for the construction of the money incinerator, that is, TES 6. The Act adopted today corrects this mistake of the first Janša government and this law will provide legal formal coverage for all the mega-Romanian construction investments that this government will undertake in the coming years. And all of this is likely to be built on the same principle as the sixth block of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica. Let us not forget that, at the same time as the adoption of this law, there is also a amendment to the Crown Act, which will, by 2022 at least, prevent the participation of virtually all non-governmental, environmental and nature protection organisations in the process of issuing building permits while at the same time allowing the capital of a series of circuits around the established placement processes, meeting environmental requirements and so on. To summarize what is being adopted here today in the National Assembly. On the one hand, the so-called administrative obstacles to capital are eliminated. Administrative obstacles put in place to protect the environment and preserve nature. On the other hand, administrative obstacles are put in place to the functioning of NGOs, organisations performing work instead of the executive branch of government, when it comes to the enforcement of legislation protecting nature, environment and space in Slovenia. And on top of all this, there is a law, which is nothing more than a bill of exchange for all illegalities, corruption and natural stooping, people and everything else, because it could still be in the way of capital interests after the creation of profits. We will vote against the adoption of this law in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u43	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, colleague Blaž Pavlin.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u44	President, thank you for your word. The proposal for an intervention law to remove obstacles to the implementation of important investments for the start-up of the economy following the COVID-19 epidemic, which we are dealing with today, has one main objective or purpose, namely to enable the accelerated launching of important investments in Slovenia as soon as possible after the end of the epidemic and is part of the government's exit strategy to minimise the impact of the epidemic. The adoption of the law could accelerate the construction of a number of projects currently under way due to various bureaucratic obstacles. According to the various ministries, this moment costs me 400 and 500, and if each investment was worth only one million euros, we can quickly calculate what the start of construction would mean for economic activity, jobs and inflows to the state budget. The important investments which could be accelerated by the adoption of this law include important roads among them the third development axis in its northern and southern parts, railway lines, public part of the Ljubljana Emonika project, the real railway procedures in Ljubljana, hydroelectric plants such as the Hydroelectric Mokrice and Hydroelectric Power Plants in the Lower Sava, as well as the National University Library and other educational institutions, as well as, of course, the various projects of municipalities. This will be achieved by accelerating the acquisition of opinions, consensus and other acts related to the construction of buildings and the coordinated and effective functioning of the State authorities involved in these procedures. The government emphasises that only investments are not financed from the budget by those that need to be given special importance. In Novi Slovenija we welcome that in this proposal the Government has also recognised the special importance of private resources. The law explicitly provides that the opinions, consents, licences or other acts of public authorities or holders of public powers necessary to carry out significant investments shall be exercised as a priority. It is also established that urgent and priority matters are involved in all judicial proceedings dealing with the issue of building permits under this Act. The Minister of Environment and Space shall ensure that, by adopting the law, there will be no simplification of the decision-making procedures or the conduct of other procedures, but only for the coordinated and effective functioning and coordination of the co-ordination of individual procedures related to the same investment. Short deadlines will not be on the account of content, which we welcome in Novi Slovenija. The proposed law applies only until the end of next year and it will therefore be necessary to approach changes and the search for systemic solutions. The underlying problems we see in the NS are excessive legislation and excessive bureaucracy. It would be impossible to expect that all problems could be solved by a single marriage. This is a multifaceted problem, which must be addressed systematically first in the legislative work and then by consistent compliance or implementation. Bureaucratic and complicated legislation in our opinion is the plague of the economy and the further development of Slovenia. Material which is by nature uniform or at least closely linked is regulated in a set of laws whose transparency is still reduced due to a number of sub-legislative acts. The areas of accommodation and construction in Slovenia are divided into 14 laws, which also have their sub-legislative acts in addition to district legislation, the construction and placement of buildings in the premises are also affecting the tax area, the area of natural disasters and real estate intervention. Two objectives should be pursued. On the one hand, a transparent and stable system to provide public benefits in the area of space regulation, on the other hand, is an understandable, relatively simple and secure investment environment for private and economic initiatives as well as for state investments. Deregulation of spatial legislation is needed. It would be appropriate to simplify the integration of laws and to reduce the number of sub-legislative rules. There is a need to reduce the set of opinions needed, strictly respecting the principle of silence is approval in the opinions to be obtained. We are committed to accurately accepting the timely issuance of licences and opinions and making this information publicly available. Also, the exercise of the personal responsibility of the heads of bodies which do not provide for the resolution of matters within the time limit. We therefore propose to the NSI as little documentation as possible to obtain a building permit, which must be issued within 30 days. Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Buddy Rudy Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u46	Thank you very much, President, for your word. First of all, I would like to point out that the proposed law that we are considering today should not be viewed solely in terms of economic resolution. Under the conditions of withdrawal from the epidemic, the investment momentum is much more than that and investments must also be very carefully set up and also carefully chosen. Because this crisis, which follows the epidemic, is also an opportunity for Slovenia. It is an opportunity to reach a higher standard in many areas – not only in the area of infrastructure, and I fear that, as we follow the plans, the construction of these big mega-man infrastructure projects, we will forget many other areas that we have all neglected together in the past. We have not invested in education and education facilities, especially in schools in the last ten years or more, in this country. The excellent project from the previous financial perspective, at least in the form it was at the time, has also been discontinued, this is the energy rehabilitation of public buildings throughout Slovenia, which has produced excellent results and has had a large multiplier effect on the economy, especially on that small economy, the local economy in particular. After reviewing the text of this law, we first asked ourselves why such a law should be adopted. We believe that the government has completely all the leverage to start investments. It has all the information on which it can be launched this year, next year and which are longer-term projects. Therefore, in our view, the law is relatively empty. This is a good one – I do not want to say a populist move towards the Government of Work, in which it is intended to remove obstacles to the acceleration of the activity of the construction sector, although it is not clear from the legal text itself how these obstacles will be removed in practice. In fact, it establishes a framework for a priority list of investments that the current government wants to make. And while the list of investments is supposed to be prepared in some serious consideration by all government departments, of course without the opposition's participation, let alone the professional public, even though it is strategic projects of this country. For this country's strategic projects. However, there are already lists of these investments in the public, and the Commission, which will sort them out somehow afterwards, has not even been established. In doing so, however, the law provides for a key role to play. As has already been said in the presentation of the position in the List of Marjan Šarc, we have presented our proposal for measures to start the economy recently, and in the set of these measures there is a very high start to the investment cycle. So we certainly do not oppose this idea – on the contrary, we see it as one of the highest priorities. Now, if I concentrate on Article 4, which we're amendments to. It contains criteria for determining important investments which are very, very general in nature. The first priority list should include investments that can be started by the end of 2020 at the end of 2021. We want to make this amendment a little bit more concrete, at least a little bit more concrete, or this article. The proposal for the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc in Article 4 therefore adds a new third indent, which reads: "The investments for which the State guarantees the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021 are considered as a matter of priority." Therefore, some specificities on some solid foundations are included in this article. This would set out for the priority investments those for which the State guarantees and accepted by the previous coalition are also an important part of the current coalition and the current government. In doing so, we point out the construction of the second track, the construction of the third development axis and the guarantees for citizens' credits, which for the first time solve the housing issue and the form of employment, or the amount of income, do not allow the independent acquisition of credit – these are young, young families, holiday employees and so on. The guarantee would be EUR 800 million for each year, especially in the amount of EUR 800 million. And it is true that the Housing Credit Guarantee Act, in the previous coalition, we have not been able to accept it, but, of course, there is absolutely no obstacle that this coalition does not accept it. Absolutely no obstacle. yesterday, on the Committee, it was surprising that, in fact, no attention was given to this proposal at all, especially since, on the other hand, we listened, of course, from the mouth of many present on this Committee, how they were concerned, how we were all concerned, about the beginning of the construction of the third development axis. [[Incomprehensible]] This was some sort of red thread of debate, on this committee and precisely this amendment, in fact, solves this issue in its entirety. Then there's absolutely no more dilemma here. So, we propose, even today, again, to consider and, of course, to confirm the proposed amendment to Article 4, which would certainly be in the spirit of partnership for development and, I think, there is no reason to give up support to this amendment, just because it comes from the opposition, but it is very well-intentioned and it is trying to improve the purpose and text of this law. We did not even try to “amend” the chapters on the coordination group, because it is essentially set up in such a way that it is not possible to “amend” this but not from the legal text itself, but also from the additional explanations of the representatives of the Government, it is clear what this coordination group will do, given that, as far as administrative procedures are concerned, it has not only limited powers but does not have them. Now, it is stressed that, of course, they are in favour of a major administrative obstacle to the start-up of investments by officials, because, in fact, it is forgotten that the biggest administrative obstacle is the legislation that has accumulated in these 1930s and through which these officials, even, perhaps sometimes if they want, are breaking through and the original sin is still, legislation in many areas. So, I, I hope that this work of the coordination group will not take place by walking through administrative units and breathing as a collar to officials, unless then, after administrative units, it will be very loud or much shouting as we have heard that it was recently, at the Department of Commerce Reserves. At the same time, of course, we point out, once again, that this "handball" can, and judging from the experience we have in interfering with this government coalition in the field of operation of environmental protection organisations in several laws, of course, many amendments to the laws rightly point us to this concern that this promotion and elimination of administrative barriers will, of course, also fall to the environmental standard, as it has been seen from past discussions and amended legislation in this area that this coalition of environmental protection organisations sees above all as an administrative obstacle. In short, we appeal to you once again to consider the proposed amendment to Article 4, and in this way at least a little detail of the legal text.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm going through the list. Check in. The first one is my colleague Željko Cigler.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! In this law, which is quickly adopted to remedy the consequences of the crown of crisis, we say that it will primarily be through strong construction projects that will intervene intensively in the environment and space, in the nature and life of the people of Slovenia, by means of this law, to remove administrative obstacles and accelerate the start of the economy. When we look at what projects we are talking about, they are listed all the time today, we must also bear in mind that we must first look at whether they meet the requirements of the European legal regime, which also places a comprehensive assessment of the environmental impacts before these projects start. We can confirm many of these projects, and we will even start implementing them, and later, due to the intervention of the European Commission, I will be able to stop their implementation because they will not be implemented in accordance with the European legislation that is a member of the European Community in Slovenia over national legislation in many areas. This was particularly pointed out by European law expert Mrs Ana Staničeva last week in one of Slovenia's important content newspapers. And I would like to say that when we talk about these assessments of how an individual project sits in space, in the environment, what its impacts are, we remember what happened to channel C0 in Ljubljana. What's going on with the third development axis project? What happens to the fate of life and the development around Anhove? What happens when Celje, polluted earth, water, air, people die from this, because of respiratory disease, lung disease, vascular disease, and so on. What's going on around Brežice and Mokric? Who's warning you about these problems and alerting you? This was not the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Environment Agency or any of the official bodies in Slovenia. No, no, no. These were citizens and citizens who are directly affected or organised in civil initiatives. These were NGOs. Thank God they exist and work. Unfortunately, in one instance, in this crown package, which is now being adopted and several laws have already been passed, another adoption package is now being established. We take into account non-governmental organisations in the field of environmental protection and space practically their right to perform and politically, socially and with arguments to draw attention to harmful interventions for Slovenian space, for the lives of people here. If some projects or projects are to be set up as they are now around this law and what the media are reporting to us. [[?]] projects, they want to. They are practically patriotic against the wishes of the existing government of Janez Janša and the authorities, which will be destructive, patrioticly destructive here. It is also destructive from the point of view of the use of public funds to be used for these projects. And only one would go here, yesterday was the word on the third development axis in its northern part, the road A1 over Goro Oljka to Velenje and then to Slovenia Gradac, the headquarters of the old industrial centre of former Yugoslavia and also now Slovenia, which has created enormously for the development of our former and present state, were the workers. Today, however, they are placed in such an enviable position and are practically overlooked. No law deals with these workers and their future lives. They are being set up by the mega-Romanian expensive project of the third development axis from Šentrupert to Slovenj Gradac, which will cost a billion and a half billion. Destroyed the first-class quality land around Braslovč, defiled the entrance of the Logarska dolina National Park under Goro Oljko, not to speak further around Velunsko Grabno from Velenje to Slovenj Gradc, what will happen. Instead and here's the interest of capital, because it's going to make a fantastic profit. It will build a road above the abandoned and active mines of the huge coal mine, which will cause constant problems on this road because here the terrain moves both vertically and horizontally. Instead of the country of Slovenia finding that the Korošci and Velenjčians get the fastest link to the motorway by upgrading the existing regional road where the land is state-owned, Mr Reich. With a viaduct under the Hudo Hole and an eastern bypass in Velenje. It's a road that could be used by the Carinthias to get back to normal as in a four-passenger on the freeway. And what do you want me to say? If this superstructure can be built for 250 to 300 million, as experts warn us, it will be the most expensive, fast road that is now projected to be built for a billion and a half. Colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly, between 300 million and one billion and a half is a billion 200, almost as expensive as the Shoštanj Termoelectric power plant, which each year produces a fantastic loss and pollutes us, especially the Velenjs, Šostanjs, Thinking and others. This money, this billion 200, should be used for a new economic start for Velenja and the people who live there. You see, these are the specificities of the law that we are talking about today and that many of our predecessors have already told us that it is practically empty to give simply free hands to capital, to create its projects, from which it will earn as much as possible, to create short-term profits at the expense of the destruction of Slovenia, the heating of life and the damage to life and the health of the people who live in this country and the useless use of public funds, rather than to use those funds in the rebalancing that will follow us for additional homes of pensioners, to update the homes for the elderly, so that they will be appropriate if the new epidemic reaches us or to use this money for enlargement. And the additional capitalisation of the Slovenian public health system, culture, education and economy, which will need to be updated, which was rightly pointed out yesterday by counterpart Ljubo Žnidar of the Slovenian Democratic Party, that exports are falling heavily in Slovenia, in particular this export, which in 70 percent is part of the automotive industry, especially in Germany. And all of this economy, which is now in crisis, will have to be replaced, not by such unwise projects in state infrastructure projects, which are aimed at capital in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Reich has a procedural proposal on the use of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u50	Thus, I call on my colleague Cigler to provide, procedurally in the debate, a list of all the land owners for which he currently lobbies. A quick road was put in the space by a professional, the decision was confirmed by the court, and I'm interested in who you're lobbying for, whose land you're selling if you're making up a new route now. The national assembly does not determine the route or the choice. And I'm interested in who and in whose interest you're looking for a new route whose land you're selling again, whose land you're selling and whose interests you're protecting by wanting to move the project for 15, 20 years because of selfish interests. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u51	Mr Reich, in a minute of the procedural proposal, you have not even indicated what your procedural proposal is. Do you want to finish?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u52	I ordered him to come up with a plan in the debate with lands he advocated for a new route and owners.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u53	Mr Member, this is not a procedural proposal. The procedural proposal, in accordance with Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure, refers to the fact that a Member points out a violation of the management or the use of the Rules of Procedure, you have talked about substantive matters, which is why this was an abuse of the procedural proposal and in this place I ask all of you not to abuse procedural proposals for substantive discussions, but to apply for the debate, you have this at your disposal, Mr Reich, so that it may be a warning for the time being. Mr Cigler, you do not have a replica because this was not a debate, but you can apply again to the debate in the next round and you will also replicate this implementation of Mr Reich. Can we proceed with the debate now? Mr Jožef Horvat has the following word, Mr Bojan Podkoršek is being prepared. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Dr. Metka Gorišek, colleague and colleague! Yes, I would like to return to the debate on the amendment and the law on the intervention law to remove obstacles to the implementation of important investments to start the economy after the COVID-19 epidemic. Very important marriage, colleagues and colleagues. With some intervention, we can influence investments to be made as soon as possible. As you know, both Minister Vizjak and Minister Jernej Vrtovec and, in fact, the whole Government encourage investments to be pursued, not to stand in a drawer somewhere because of some bureaucratic obstacles, perhaps some signature and so on. In doing so, I want to make it very clear that neither Nova Slovenija nor this coalition will push away NGOs, those who are competent, who know something about the environment. On the contrary, we want to have them in the process of obtaining building permits for the same table to agree on how best to place and build an investment in space in terms of preserving the nature of the investment. We are very well aware, colleagues and colleagues, that in the European Union, thank God, we are members, this is now, in this crisis, how important it is that we are members of this important European family since 1 May 2004. And we are aware that there are new rules that have entered into force in the European Union, yes, right now. On the one hand, we have a green agreement, we know what this means now is not the time to distribute about it for a long time, but one rule that I have very well remembered is that if you do not respect the environment you will not get European money. That is to say, if investment does not respect the environment – we call it the protection of creation – then there will be no European money, that is a great challenge for us. Why? Because European funds are our only non-refundable development funds. Who would be so crazy to give up these only irreparable financial means? There are three key words under this rule. First, climate, second, digitization and third, resistance. Once again, the National Assembly can use legislative solutions to accelerate the start-up of investments primarily here, of course, we mean an economic industry called construction, but it is not just construction, because it is construction and such investments that are said to have the most powerful multiplier effects that we cannot adopt in the National Assembly the law of who and what modules for electric vehicles to produce our automotive industry, which is of course very important to us. Someone already mentioned Germany today. Of course, we must be very careful to monitor what is happening in Germany because this market in Germany is strongly addressed by the Slovenian economy and if this market breaks down the Slovenian economy too. I am pleased – now a little political – that Merklov has growing support there and that Merklov, together with Macron, is also proposing, of course, through the Commission, the creation of a European Recovery Fund worth €750 billion, two-thirds irreversible, one-third in the form of favourable loans, that is, of course, a proposal. It is known who has the most powerful political power in the European Union, that this matter will probably not be adopted in this form in these amounts irreparably, irreparably, but we are probably satisfied with this proposal. My well-respected colleague Rudy Medved well explained their amendment. Now where do we see the problem and first what's good again? Yes, of course, the second track, which is written in the explanation and the third development axis. Yeah, who's the one who doesn't see any priority here and doesn't want us to start these investments as soon as possible? There's no one between us. I hope I'm right. Now, as far as the decree of the amendment is concerned. As an amendment to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021 is invoked. You know, colleagues and colleagues, that in fact the very rich budget that this National Assembly has adopted for two years is no longer due to the epidemic. You are also aware that the Government is already preparing a budget rebalancing. We have also adopted a decree on the state budget framework in this National Assembly, taking into account the dramatic decline in economic activity even more than the European Commission has predicted. So if we write this down — personally, I have no problem with this — how does the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets now have problems? Yeah, this one's probably gonna change with the rebalancing, I don't know, I don't know, that's for the National Assembly to decide. But I think we should probably, then, write down something else that's still one of those high-priority investments. However, I think that any smart government will implement this Intervention Act to remove obstacles to the implementation of important investments to start an economy after the epidemic, so that every government, what is written here in the explanatory statement, which is the purpose of the amendment to take this into account, would be stupid if it did not, which means that the amendment is essentially nothing to the detriment of, and nothing to the benefit of. While the Budget Implementation Act will certainly change for two years. We only support the intention of the amendment, i.e. the content to act in this respect, but otherwise, as we say, we do not see any added value in this amendment. They were obvious and it is constantly said that we have now simply reduced environmental organisations. That's not true, that's not true! However, colleagues and colleagues, if one of us agrees with the procedures that allow for the process of obtaining a building permit, if one supports a complaint about a complaint, read it for reasons of speculation, and I am sure there is none among us, that is all we want to do is somehow eliminate it from these proceedings. And for this kind of work, I repeat, a complaint about a complaint about a complaint, so for the sake of conjecture, we do not have any tolerance for such works in Novi Slovenija. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the following word, Mr Gregor Perič is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u56	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. A nice greeting also goes to the Secretary of State and to all colleagues and colleagues. Since you come from a very demanding ministry, it is certain that you will not be able to make all the legislative proposals that everyone can praise throughout the mandate. But I must point out here you, your minister and all your coworkers to this bill, of course, on my part, all praise. I think that there is one move, certainly no law that we are preparing or that the ministry is not ideal, it is still possible to upgrade, upgrade and improve. This is an important step in this ministry, and above all an important step in the field of the economy, construction and development of the Republic of Slovenia. We've been listening to this for two days, on the board yesterday, and today. I listened attentively to a fellow Bear who certainly has professional experience before he was in the National Assembly was the Minister of Public Administration and I will say that I agree with much of his debate when he discussed it. I hope a fellow bear, when he was a minister, used a bit of weakness and encouraged someone to think a little differently. However, my colleagues and colleagues, when I am listening, I have heard from a member group that there are again some criminal acts, that irregularities will occur, and perhaps one example that we will be better understood because it is really about the development of Slovenia, the economy, the construction industry. In theory, we Members and Members of all 90 Members can vote for one project in Trbovje. Do you know how many votes we all got together, all together? More than 100,000, and when one NGO decides, which I do not sometimes underestimate, then I will say that I appreciate those experts who really want the good of this Slovenia when one or three chooses to do so. We, all 90 Members, will not put the project through one mandate. Do we understand each other? If we talk about such difficult things that I am saying in the hallway today, the conversation will be quite different. But colleagues and colleagues, today we are being listened to by congregations, economists, builders. This week, I had the opportunity to meet with an entrepreneur who has 50 employees and would like to join — he already has a contract — along with his company, to build another hall. Look, that's impossible. That's impossible. And now let this entrepreneur go to Germany to explain our procedures. [[Incomprehensible]] Finally, let him mention the three who meet behind the counter at night and agree that 90 projects will not be able to bring us through this mandate in Trbovje – hypothetically, I say. And today we want to be confused as to whether this is right or wrong. I don't think we're on the right track many times. I had a case where Siemens gave the company half a year to keep its products in the rain when it produced them. And I don't know, 150 square feet couldn't be entered into that space. I had a case when someone was half a meter too close to the stream, and it wasn't possible. Ladies and gentlemen, I once again commend you on this segment of the Minister, the Secretary of State and, of course, all the employees working on it. But you know, it is up to us, only to us, whether the development of Slovenia will go in a different direction and a faster direction. Of course we accept that today. I hear it from our mouths a lot, but when we walk through the door, we're talking to bureaucrats. In Slovenia we have one quarter of the people who work in public administration, of course, who work and decide on these procedures. In my opinion, those who should be paid more are underpaid, and they are extremely good. The second third is good, but that last third is a big question if it behaves like our respected doctors. I've never been to a doctor before to say, "Look, I won't deal with you." And that's what's killing the Republic of Slovenia. But you know, when I hear about crime in this law, if one company wants to build a loony bin, it needs steel. It's not possible, or you can't do it. And our task is to enable them to produce and consequently have people in employment, but of course the ultimate goal is to put them in the Treasury. And this law goes in the right direction. Thanks again to the Ministry. I will personally support him with great responsibility. Because it is the development of the Republic of Slovenia. We've been running around here for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Gregor Perič has the following word, and Mr Ljubo Žnidar is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Well, hello to everyone again. Yesterday we had a debate on this proposal for a law on the working body and everyone who tied this law into his hand saw that it was very simple, short, made up of the 12 articles. So it's very fast to read it, and I believe I can understand it if we want to understand it. To understand his spirit or purpose. I personally understand it as some kind, in the notes of course, the “broacher” that things are going faster and above all more effectively. Now, who has ever had the opportunity to participate in a public or public administration or local self - government knows that things can get stuck very quickly. Now, we can blame the officers, we can blame the law. If we blame ourselves, then we will not find a solution, and it follows from practice that our legislation or in Slovenia has been reversed and one issue deals with two or more acts that are in conflict with each other and then we need to use a lot of energy to determine what is really true when we are in compliance with the law. As a result, officials are sometimes very cautious. They don't want to make any mistakes. They want to have some cover over themselves, and then all of this means that this timeline is very stretchy and there is no decision, and on the other hand investors or anyone else rightly expects it and does not get it. That is why I understand this law in particular in order to make things run faster and more efficiently. Speaking of the list of investments, I have already mentioned in my view that such a list of investments has been made in the government led by SMC. It was created at the level of the government, but I do not remember that in the previous government under the leadership of Mr Sharpe there would be any such list at least in the National Assembly, we were not asked if we had any suggestions. I believe that neither is the opposition, so today's calls for the opposition to take part in this are, however, I will say, in place, but let's work with an example first. The article itself, or the law itself, I think the essence of its purpose is in Article 9, which speaks mainly of priority treatment, that is, how things should flow and what to do if some things start to get complicated or take place more slowly. Here the law gives some basis for this group, which will take care of it, to move things forward faster, because we need to be aware, in particular, of the situation in which we found ourselves in the midst of this virus, that we have some good 400 million investments awaiting realization. Of course, one is closer to being able to realize, some are a little longer and I think it is in everyone's interest to move it as soon as possible, because I don't think it's a long time when we're going to get a lot of calls in this National Assembly where all public resources could be given. So, especially in a social sense. If we have these investments, we will be better able to meet these demands and expectations if we do not have to say no to many, and then there will be a whole lot of bad will, screaming, grumbling, and more. So let's look at both sides, not just when we're spending, but also when we're creating. Thus, this law does not interfere with the existing procedures for obtaining opinions, permits, consents or any other decisions, but merely optimizes its or its time course. We know that placement procedures in space, acquisition, environmental impact assessments or comprehensive environmental impact assessments and building permits are very complex and long-term. And any incentive, in this sense, that, following an existing procedure that does not change, not on the basis of this law, is to run as optimally as possible. We have also heard much about the role or role of NGOs in recent days and weeks. I can say that from reliable sources I know that there have been quite a few calls and pressures in the previous government on the Minister of Environment and Space to do something about NGOs. So he's looking for a solution. Not a definitive solution to this question, but a solution. So today, or with new applications by redistributing applications, some of the plates have also turned. We also heard a lot about channel C0. I don't think it makes sense for me to go back into the details, but I must say, I was very disappointed because I expected very clear positions, especially by the parties, who are now very loud around rights or environmental protection these days, and they were not at that meeting of the Infrastructure Committee. The Left apologized, the LMŠ didn't have a point of view at the time. In the positions we have read here in plenary, for example, in LMŠ you did not object to the project of channel C0, so that it leads the sewer through the aquifer. However, I have expected many more NGOs, which are sometimes very legitimately loud, but have not spoken or were not present, but I think there was no reason for the meeting of that committee on Friday night, but there was a reason somewhere else, and I fear that this reason is that also non-governmental organizations did not want to be politically resentful of certain people in Slovenia, which puts the whole context into a purely different light and this light worries me, because we cannot have a left or a right NGO, but if we have NGOs that are also dealing with the environment, they must be able and should not be afraid that if they are critical of a project that belongs to one part of the political space, they can do so if they are critical of a project generated by another part of the political space, but they have reservations. It's actually, for me, some sign that's very worrying. And if I go back to the end, I'll go back to the amendment. As I understand the amendment of the LMŠ, this amendment is already contained in the law itself, because, both the third development axis and the second track, as well as the dwellings, are in - or otherwise - referred to in Article 4, I think that this is the second indent, where it is very clear, very taxively indicated, in which areas all of these projects are covered, which will be interesting, but of course the key criterion is real feasibility. So, basically, I have no problems with the amendment itself, but I do not see the need to further define it, because, at least in my opinion, it is already well covered in the existing law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u59	Thank you very much for the debate. As the last in this round, Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is very clear and very evident that the virus is, and will, in the future, leave a very strong negative impact on the economy and in fact in life at all. There's an intervention law ahead of us. The title itself makes it very clear that it is not a perfectly normal situation. This is a situation that is not normal and that is why the law is still important, because, in the economic crisis ahead of us and, in some ways, we will not be able to avoid it at all, but we can by certain measures, which we will greatly ease, and this law is one of them, because a sector such as construction is an extremely important sector to save the economy. Construction accounts for 43% of the entire economy, that is to say, a poor half. This is a very, very large proportion, and this can be a very big solution for half of the economy in the Republic of Slovenia, if I say domestically, when the construction mixer is spinning. Now, both on the committee yesterday and, of course, even today, there are quite a few perceptions, such and different, that, as an existing Government, we are engaged in some hand-to-hand procedures for the adoption of laws. But I think it's urgent. In this case, if we want to save the economy, all Members should take part in the “handball” course in accepting economic aid. We could learn this, we could all learn this skill if we wanted to help the economy. Now “handballing” is needed. Now it's necessary. Not after things have passed, but when so many and so many jobs have closed down, so many and so many factories will go bankrupt and so on and so forth. Now is the time, in fact, to help the economy. Then there were further findings. What priorities will this coordination group now have in the selection of these projects? Look, the coordination group's not gonna be working any recruits. And yesterday on the board we heard that yes, there are already some lists or some list of these priority projects already. You know what the task of this coordination group is, it will be dealing with a set of administrative obstacles that lead these projects into abnormal hands. This will be the task of the coordination group. Solving and solving problems. This is her priority, so, and her task as a coordination group is to put the main projects that are already being prepared into a normal timeline so that what will not happen in Slovenia, I would say, has been happening all the time to place projects in the space, I don't know, for ten years or more, that various participants in the proceedings are complaining 5 or even 10 years with the same thing on every new official document, etc. In short, it's an unfinished complaint, which is true, I would call it, on the question of expertise, appropriateness, etc. Then, within the normal time limit, also to bring complaints from already selected construction operators. This cannot last a complaint of appeal and, say, a certain investment departs for a year, two or more. These are abnormal timelines. The administrative authorities cannot afford to issue one building permit for one year. It's an abnormal clock. And these coordination groups are waiting for hard work, awkward work. This group will deal with problems, but not as I listened to the committee yesterday, but this is now a priority and they will choose priority projects. That's a very wrong opinion. They're going to deal with problems to make these projects run faster. And even if I touch on this amendment of Article 4, I would say that this amendment is good, but at this point these projects, which have now been brought to a greater extent, I can say that these projects are not financial problems. There's no problem with the money for these projects. And by the end of the year, the situation will be very rapid, and then we will have to deal with the budget rebalancing for this year and, of course, for next year. And then the right time will be when we actually see what the success and realisation of this coordination group is, or which of these projects is still lacking, or will need to be added and/or reformulated their financial implementation plan, and then it will be a good time, so this amendment would say, is good, but at that time it will not bring us anything, because we do not have now, the other would be, if we had a set of, I don't know, ten new projects, I'm saying new ones, and we would need money for that. We with this intervention law at this point in time, when we are urgently solving so-called, I would say already ongoing projects, which are already very far-reaching, in fact at this point in time do not have the means here to ask questions, so that I believe that this will be a very useful law, which, of course, will be a very big help to the economy and an urgent and urgent and fast-track one, should also put it into practice as soon as possible, in practice, to give its results immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded this round of debaters. Anyone else want a word? Since I can see it's an interest, I'm opening a report. Please sign in. We've got five reported discussers. As the first to receive the word, Mr Jože Lenart, prepare Mr Franci Kepa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u62	Thank you very much for taking the floor. Somehow I didn't want to get involved in this debate today, but in view of certain debaters, I have to somehow, because somehow, some of the old mantras appear to be a little difficult for a man with this kind of incompetence. Infrastructural investments, key to economic development. The key to attracting foreign investors, we know what the critics are from abroad, why some do not choose Slovenia, of course, if they have to drive for 4.5 hours to come from one end of Slovenia to the other in those peaks. Key for the even development of the regions, the key is that people in Bela Krajina, Bovec, Goriček, Koroškem, Kozianski have at least about the same conditions as people in Ljubljana, Koper, Celje. The third development axis, however, in these 15 years, we can trust the profession to finally decide and find the best option. And that's how the profession can be decided, and there's no way that politics is here. Then we must trust this profession, of course, and the profession must also bear the responsibility for the legislation that we accept. And I suppose, of course, we will take these decisions on the basis of professional proposals instead of political ones. The former Minister has made it very clear that the Arja route to Velenje is even more expensive than the Shentrupert-Velenje route, but not that we are listening here today to some old mantras, which someone has planted in the public media, such nebulosis that every child can already calculate what costs or investments can be worth on certain routes. And if your friend Ciegler thinks that you could spread the road through the Ugly Hole on current traffic, then you have no idea what investments are and then you probably haven't received any studies or processed them. I'm sorry, buddy, but I really can't say otherwise in these nebulos that I hear from you again today. Well, if the expansion of the road through a severe hole was optimistic for two years, freight traffic should have taken place at that time via Maribor or even Celovec towards the south, there is no other option for freight traffic. Personal transport via Graška Gora, Slemen or Vitanja. Has anyone ever driven this road before? The lives of the Korošks would be encouraged by 50% under such conditions and the loss of time would be even 100%. Is this what you want in Koroška with such stupid statements here that you've been repeating for years and years? Cigler, really think about what you were talking about here today. Let's make roads, railways, to ensure the economy's competitiveness, to attract investment. In this way, we will raise GDP, pay added value and, through taxes and contributions, fill state cash registers, health pensions and municipal cash registers. That's how it's done, in the right end, you have to start so that it can be a circle to turn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kepa is next, Mr Rudi Medved is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u64	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I say hello to everyone. I support all the Government's efforts to accelerate the start-up of the economy due to the COVID-19 virus, as presented in this intervention law, which is temporary or short. [[…]] To shorten procedures and start projects through the project group. It is unacceptable that it has been waiting so long for some environmental assessment for a project or infrastructure or elsewhere. For example, here, at Mirna in Dolenjska, there is a roadblock waiting for a few years to get an assessment of this bypass, which is about 100 meters away, and it is necessary to make an assessment through the Sevnia, which is 30 kilometers away. The law does, but the question is whether this is really necessary. The example of wind power plants that we have only 2.3 wind power plants in Slovenia due to various reasons for rejection. Today, windmills have individual rated power of 3, 4, 5 megawatts. What this also means compared to a hydropower plant can be calculated. Why are other countries doing this and not us? Non-governments, some non-governments who refuse to build these energy facilities serve and data for a non-governmental organisation that has refused to build these energy installations on Val's ribs, can be seen to have earned €10 million and €30 million in 10 years. The question is, was it really the care of the birds the original thing? Nature care is probably excessive in energy-generating projects, this benefit for a lot of attention in hydropower plants, and no attention was paid to the construction of the sewer network through a aquifer in Ljubljana. [[Incomprehensible]] [[Incomprehensible]] There were no parties anywhere to fight to stop these projects, but now they're talking. It is right to support this law and this will increase development as a percentage of the social product, not only in dozens in Slovenia. I'll support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Rudi Medved has the next word, Mr Željko Cigler is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u66	Thank you very much. You see, the charm of parliamentary democracy is that the ruling coalition sees this law as extremely good and virtuous to the founders of this law, and we see it quite differently. And we said it was empty, basically empty, so it's in the middle of the hollow, and there's nothing around. And we also justify why and when said colleague Žnidar and formerly colleague Horvat felt that this amendment was good, but was from the opposition, it was from the opposition. You know why we wrote this amendment? My colleague Horvath said, yes, it's okay, it's written in, there should be something else, and actually it's true. There should be something else. I would have believed that we would have run these projects, but we don't really know the recruits, and we would have done it if we were legal. And I'll tell you the experience, 12 years or more. When we started the debate on hydro power plants in Central Sava, I was in these working groups all the time. These working groups worked so that each time we met, it was about as if we were meeting for the first time and so on for some 12 years. We, who are the local communities that have been in favour of these hydropower plants actually starting to build, have all the time argued that without law, as in the case of the lower Sava, without the law hydropower plants on the Central Sava will never be. But the ministers were changing, and every time they told us, no, no, it's too late, it takes too long, and we have to start building as soon as possible. Well, we have never adopted the law, of course many millions have already been confused, but of course no hydropower plants have yet been planted, nor has any shovel ever been planted. Mr Hršak also introduced a law on the construction of hydroelectric power plants in the Central Sava in the previous term, but the National Assembly did not accept it, although we are full of mouths that large infrastructure projects need to be launched because they have such and such multiple effects. And that's why I'm afraid it's too small to write down just these two or three projects, and we've mentioned them, but a set of projects, when it's legal, would be that stick that would then push every time the government to make these projects come true. Otherwise, I don't know what kind of investment is currently so high that the government couldn't have started without this law and also which projects have failed because of non-governmental organisations. Now, if an NGO brings a matter to court and gets it there, I have heard the logic of the Minister of the Environment these days: “Yes, if the NGOs have brought it to court.” But the court found that it was illegal, and now, of course, the one who found this illegality and proved it to the court is now guilty. That's the trick. And there is something else -- because you could hear about old records, just don't let Mr. Perič from the Modern Centre page talk to me about turning the board. This is basically like listening to an old record, this old record that we've been listening to all along: "It's all Marjan Sarec's fault." So that I would really be very, very careful about converting the boards, Mr Perič, if I were to mention them.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Perich has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u68	Yes, thank you very much. My friend Bear, I didn't speak up, and I don't speak up, and I've argued that many times in there. We have several situations where we had the same position in the SMC in the previous government, including the Resolution on the proclamation of the climate crisis and so on, and we have given the same positions as we do today. At the time, everything was fine, and today you're reading all kinds of things to us. I also said, and what you referred to is that the view in the previous government was a little different from what I have been hearing in recent days and weeks about the situation or how we need to deal with NGOs. Now, you can trust me, you can not believe me, but you can – because you have been in the government – even with whom you talk from your party, and you will quickly find out what the real situation is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u69	Thank you very much. But there's no replica to the replica. So we continue the debate. Mr Željko Cigler has a word, but prepare yourself as the last in this round, Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! The point of today's and yesterday's debate on infrastructure in the Committee, and today in the National Assembly and the point of many public contributions made by the public through the media is that today's debate is marked "necessary" because administrative obstacles need to be removed, they put in advance or want to reinvigorate many of the investments that are needed – the 3rd development axis is necessary – but in such a way that the environmental, space, public money, citizens, every month, every day with contributions, taxes, income, is inadequate. The situation of the Crown and the Crown has nothing to do with it, is it used to enforce certain things that are over? [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] practically unacceptable. And today we're not lobbying for anyone. We speak here on behalf of those and in the interest of those who have chosen us. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u71	And now it's over, buddy Bricker. Thank you very much. As the last of this round, Mr. Vojko Starović, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Again - I must say - as my age here, it is difficult for me to listen to some of the debates in the economy, but I have been in a lot of investment. The first electronic facility in Yugoslavia, the first small airport in Yugoslavia and so on, the first renovation of hotels, the first five-star hotel. And that's what we had to do. And the only lesson of all of this — if you prepare the matter well, you invest well, then you need speed. Whatever happened, it irritated and prevented and prevented. Look, when we got our country to Slovenia, there was a much worse crisis than that or that third one. We stayed, economically speaking, financially, let's leave the rest of the stuff now that we're talking about investments, we're down, the companies are out of markets, the companies. Before we left this company to financial speculators, various management companies, and so on, when it was terrible, which destroyed them enormously, we found ourselves, we got away with it. I took over the Metropolis hotels, when we didn't have any guests right after the war, and 361 employees, and without any help, we survived and moved on, I have to say this. We were determined, we worked, and then we launched a road program. More than half of the investment, everything Slovenia invested, was in construction. And this has had its multiple and this has highlighted, this has pulled other activities. We built roads, we don't even realize that it saved us at the time and we had a nice economic growth until we became too smart, and we started investing somewhere that doesn't carry a direct matter and promote the economy. I welcome this marriage, I must say. To speed things up so things start to happen. Let's just be careful about that, shall we? I agree, and to the warnings that nature must be preserved. If we don't protect our environment, we don't protect nature, and we don't watch it, we're gonna get hurt. Only instead, at some point when we stopped the road program, when there was so much to say, instead of then going to the railway program, although there were extensions, plans, we didn't. As a result, the construction companies started to fail and we lost things. They also failed because of other things, but it's not working. It's not working. We have to do a few things. And now, if we go into the green plan, where our colleagues, as they reiterated, are from SD, yes, and if we can't even set up an ecologically green thing – windmills – for the sake of some birds. I tell you some experience – I am the institution of what it was, for cultural and natural heritage came to me, through all the local communities I had to defend the matter so that I could mow the safety belts along the path. Because there was a wild hyacinth growing there, wasn't there? And so they came, with a whole study of programs, on all these local communities, these bio-graduates, those third, fourth ones, along with explaining how the only growth in Pirano is wild hyacinths, and therefore we must not have a buffer belt that you must eat, according to international regulations, is the highest possible grass of 15 centimeters. And then I said at all these meetings, and the question was, what's growing in Isola wild hyacinth? Yeah. But do you know where we came from? Silence from them. We brought her here from Izola when they were making the carousel. But you know, that's why they tried to stop me from doing things. [[Incomprehensible]] Let's just say, "Let's be serious," he can't get five people together and say, "it doesn't apply" and he's going through procedures. Let's do it, because I'm also now that we've dealt with this third one when we're going to have an all-night session later. That is not true, but the empty speaking and turning of a subject constantly around the same and one and the same with other words. I'm not on your side, not looking at me. We're not in the government, I'm not in favour, but this action is smart. If they started building railroads for me to say mistakes back then, the companies would survive, the knowledge would survive. These SCTs built this Primorje around the world, the largest airport built in Iraq, say SCT. Look, we had so much knowledge, and I don't know, Rade Končar had stuff to do when we had 8,000 employees. It was knowledge, and it was done. We have stopped this because the railways we have have since the previous Slovenia, what our fathers, mothers and old fathers have done and so on. We inherited it all, the hospitals all, and now we want to prevent nothing from happening. If we want to launch Green Energy, if we want to have hydrocentres, we have to move things now or in this way, and we can't stop a group of five citizens, just like those biologists wanted me and so on. I made it, I proved it through all the local communities and it went through our plan, but look, it can't. We are, when we've been collecting an investment, it's right to say that you'll understand a little bit about how it is, I've collected it, and I said this company has references to you that can build it. These can be built and we, then we gathered offers, we sat down, we formed a financial un, third, fourth, that we chose who they were, and we went with three to negotiate, and then we negotiated with one of them, and that was fast and cheaper. I got offers when they were different what I know about the renovation of the Lucio Hotel was the cheapest offer of a million 300 at the time we worked in brands and the most expensive 2 million 600, double. It's a little off-limits. Let's just drop what you've been getting – now I'm sorry a little bit – you've let people down who don't have the idea of activists, they've called you, they've called you, they've called you, they've called you, they've called you, they're calling you, they're calling you, they're calling you, they're calling you, they're calling you, they're saying, If I could afford that kind of purchase at the hotel, we'd be screwed. We can't do amateur work, we can do good work, we can gather experts, we can make teams. We have a DRI direction and then we make a little Pericu now and then we make a special company for the construction of the railway. We put a couple of people in there with no engineers, no knowledge, nothing. We can't do this. We're all smart here, and we explain all night, and at my sessions, someone explains to me about macroeconomics, and you can't micro-economics. Let's take it this way and let's give this Government whatever it is I don't support it I'd rather say I would have another, but no matter what the Slovenian government gives it, and we need to take some action and be a little bit of a state-of-the-art here as my colleague Jelinčič said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded this round of debate. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because it's an interest I'm opening a debate. Just press a colleague for discussion once if you're not detected! You weren't detected by the system. First, he gets the word, Mr Only Bevk, and then he's a colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Because it's easier to talk without a mask, I'll put the mask down otherwise I'm still using it, because the epidemic is not officially over until June 1st we'll see how it's going to happen in reality. I think that this law will help to create a new investment momentum after this first health and then the economic and social crisis. This law states that it will set or set criteria for determining significant investments to start the economy after the outbreak of the infectious disease of the crown virus. Here, then, in the following articles or in one of the articles, the criteria for determining these important national investments are also laid down. However, I would like to recall one set of projects that were also included in the so-called resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023 – this was a government document – this document was not adopted by the National Assembly and, to the extent that I know so far, no government has withdrawn this document. 34 key investment projects of the Republic of Slovenia were included in this document. And this resolution on national development projects is due to continue until 2023, so this period has not yet been completed. We even considered this resolution at the time in the framework of the development partnership, as the then President of the Government presented these projects to the so-called Advisory Body of the Partnership for Development and also some opposition proposals were taken into account at that time, so that the Government then complemented some of the projects. That is why I think it would be good to include some of the projects contained in this resolution in this programme for the start-up of the Slovenian economy after this crisis. We should look at which projects have already been implemented, which projects have not yet been implemented and then include them in this programme to start the Slovenian economy. I would mention only two projects, one very happy and one less fortunate from the set of these 34 projects, one was the Nordic centre of Planica, which was very successfully completed and one little less successful project, which was TES 6. In particular, I would appeal, because one of the projects of these 34 were also investments on the state road network on the priority development axes and I suggest that, for the start of the economy, these investments on the priority development axes were also included, and here I am thinking not only on the third development axis that we are all talking about, but also on the 3a development axis, this is on the road from Ljubljana to Kočev and to this region of Slovenia, and the so-called fourth development axis, which goes from Soča, from Bovec to Želen, where it is split into the church's fourth development axis, goes through the Cerkna and Poljanska valley to the highway cross to Jeprce and then on the idriological foot of the fourth development axis, which is included through Idrija on the highway in Logatac. I think it would be good for the government services to review this resolution again and see which projects from this selection from 13 years ago would make sense to include this project for the start-up of the Slovenian economy after the epidemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Now he gets the word, Mr Andrej Chernigoj. Here you go. Looks like your microphone's not working. Wait a minute, we'll sort it out.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u76	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm sorry, we had a little technical problems, but we successfully solved them. I'd like to tell the public here that I support all the government's efforts to start the economy after the epidemic and in this place. [[Sign for the end of the debate]] In particular, I would like to thank the economy, which has been very cooperative with us in these furry times and has also donated much of the necessary companies in the absence of equipment. [[Excluding microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u77	Thank you very much. But now you're running out of time without the microphone running, it shuts off at the end of time. He ran out of time for three seconds. The task force has had so little time, I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Just Mr. Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u78	See, in the SAB Group we are very aware of the importance of See, in the SAB Group we are very aware of the importance of investing in infrastructure. We know that infrastructure is the one that strengthens the geostrategic position of our country and strengthens the strategic advantages of our economy and, finally, provides prosperity and jobs for our citizens. I am a construction engineer myself, and we know that construction has multiple effects, in addition to the construction industry, there is also a direct link between the electricity industry, the machinery industry and many subcontractors, and of course, we all realize that infrastructure is the one that is just in time of crisis and, before Slovenia is one drop, Slovenia, of course, expects one drop in gross domestic product and construction is the sector that includes and allows many workers, citizens, to be actively active at the start of these investments. [[Incomprehensible]] I also very much welcome the transposition of this European directive, which in fact limits the dumped prices, namely, into the Slovenian legal order, which ensures that companies and companies cannot operate in Slovenia at dumped prices and, I am sure, with these measures, with the start of infrastructure, we can ensure that our workers will have [[sign for the end of the debate]] Work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u79	Thank you very much. If there are no more debaters, I conclude the debate. And I'm breaking this agenda. We will decide on the amendments today, as part of the vote. We're moving to 3. Agenda item — Second defence of the Proposal for an Law on Intervention Measures for Militia and the Elimination of the Consequences of Epidemics of Covide-19. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the assembly, and I give the floor to the Minister for further explanation. Mr. Janez Brickler King, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Good afternoon. Allow me, with this additional explanation of today's law, the proposed law on intervention measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of the Covid-19 epidemic, to present in a little more detail the material we have under consideration. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with the first and second anti-kron packages or with the measures taken in these two packages of legislation, helped or covered a million 300,000 people. 300,000 people. Strongly over half the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The logical continuation of these two first packages of legislation is the third crown package, which we are considering today, this third against the crown package, in fact the announced and proposed exit strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, for a relief, I can actually say, to prevent the worst consequences of the epidemic and to help the economy to regain, as quickly as possible, a full start. On 19 May, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a proposal for a law on intervention measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of the Covid-19 epidemic, or this material, which we are currently considering. After intensive, cross-cutting coordination and consultation with the social partners, which is very important, we have prepared a substantive upgrade of the so-called first and second to the crown package. All actors involved in the preparation of the third package acted constructively and in the spirit of a successful exit from the crisis due to the Coronavirus epidemic. I sincerely thank everyone for all the contributions, suggestions and ideas. In fact, this third anti-Korona package will cover or help all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, all citizens. The Committee of the National Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the proposal at its 39th emergency meeting, on 26 May and on 27 May this week. It is still in our minds that these were actually marathon sessions, which required a little more psychophysical effort, but, as I have already said, it is not less, because with each adopted article we were closer to getting the law passed, and that aid comes to the economy and to the people waiting for it, many have already expressed the expectation and desire that they can prepare themselves as soon as possible for the use of these measures. Here, too, I am thinking of the committee meeting, I am grateful to all the Members who participated in the meeting and helped with the constructive proposals and helped us to have the bill in such a form today on the table. A traveler to this law, to remind me of the words of the former British Prime Minister Winston Churchill, who said that success was never complete. So in this spirit, we prepared this law, drawing on the precious experiences of the first two packages. The aim of the anti-croron package is to maintain as many jobs as possible and to help vulnerable groups as possible. If I touch the labour market, we can say with certainty today, and from the data I will give, we see that without the measures taken, the picture on the labour market would be significantly worse. It's significantly worse. With the measures we have taken so far in the Government, we have managed, I can say, to substantially mitigate and slow down the growth of the number of unemployed, which is larger, which has been a major concern and we have been following it closely, but with the measures of waiting for work and other measures to encourage employers and the labour market, we have managed to make this picture significantly better or mitigate the severe consequences of the crisis. According to current data from the Employment Service, employers have submitted almost 50,000 applications from 1 April to today, and have applied a salary refund of around 270 000 jobs for about 200,000 employees. Given that some over 800,000 people are employed by legal and natural persons in Slovenia, we can say that we have helped a quarter of all employees in the Republic of Slovenia by means of a waiting procedure so far. This is not a small number, it is a large number and this is in some ways proof that the proposed measures were timely, thorough and massive in the first and second anti-korona packages and that the economy also served them. Without these measures, the number of unemployed would increase massively and rapidly. If I now touch other target groups of the first and second antikron packages, these are residents, vulnerable groups, I can only list a few data on how many of these people have received assistance in different forms. 300,000 pensioners with lower pensions than EUR 700. 200,000 children from families with one or two children. 30,000 large families, those with three children, received 100 euros in allowances, and those with four or more 200 euros. Many people, this is about 50,000 recipients of the solidarity allowance for recipients of financial social assistance, and this is the only one that has been paid. The monthly basic income of €350 and €700, depending on the status, has been paid by over 30,000 self-employed farmers, socialists and religious servants and has thus significantly helped them to cope with this crisis. So to conclude the opening speech, which was necessary, because, as I said, the third antikron package comes from the first and second and relies on the experience we have gained in the first and second cases, I am now moving in this presentation to the law on intervention measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of the COVID-19 epidemic, the so-called third antikron package. This bill is a step forward. We are still pursuing two key objectives, namely job conservation, support for the economy and assistance to businesses that are failing to do business. It is not going without each other, and the solutions that have been proposed so far follow the needs in both areas. The key measures of this Act are three, the first and most exposed measure of partial subsidisation of short-term employment for the period from 1 June to the end of the year, until 31 December 2020. The other proposed key measure is already known or similar to the already well-known subsidy or reimbursement, partly the compensation paid to workers on temporary waiting for work. I may mention that, to the extent that an amendment to Article 26 is adopted and I believe that it will be adopted, this measure will allow all employers in the Republic of Slovenia for the month of June, i.e. all employers in the Republic of Slovenia for the month of June. The government has heard a number of calls, economic proposals, and we are inclined to offer a waiting-for-work measure already or to all employers for the month of June, as this will solve a number of hardships that can not yet be fully implemented or even partially triggered. Initially, this measure was intended for tourism and hospitality, and now, if you will, of course, accept the proposed amendment of the coalition groups to Article 26 and I believe that it will be available to all companies. Thirdly, perhaps the most exposed measure is the value voucher for using the overnight service, bed and breakfast with Slovenian tourist providers. Hereinafter, if you will allow me, I will briefly take some solutions to these main three measures and present some more in the draft law contained in the solution. The measure of partial reimbursement of remuneration paid to temporary workers is simply stated to pay the waiting period for all employers in a form similar to that of package 1 and package 2 anti-korona in June. Any employer in the Republic of Slovenia who is unable to provide work to its employees due to the consequences of the epidemic will be able to exercise the right to pay in part. The measure will apply to all employers, with the exception of the exceptions listed above, and not only to employers in the field of catering and tourism, as long as appropriate amendments are adopted. There are still some entry conditions for the use of this measure, which is justified by employers whose revenues have fallen by 10% compared to 2019. Humanitarian and disability organisations will also be entitled to this measure. With regard to this measure, it may be important to mention that employers have to send their employees on hold until 30 June of this year and that this measure will no longer be available. A worker can return to work up to seven days a month while waiting at home. The remuneration must not be lower than the minimum wage in the Republic of Slovenia. Now for the second measure. I believe both the Ministry and the Government believe that this period is crucial to this period after the crown epidemic. From the experience of some European countries, Austria and Germany, which are very close to us, we can see that this is a successful measure, that this is the measure which the economy now needs and will be used at a slower and slower pace. This measure of subsidising part-time work has been proposed in order to preserve jobs due to the consequences of the epidemic and to prevent workers from being fired for business reasons. This measure governs the possibility of assigning part-time work to those workers who have a full-time employment contract. The key points of this measure are that, in the event of temporary incapacity to provide work for business reasons, the employer may order part-time work between 20 and 35 hours per week in the remaining share of full-time work while at the same time sending the worker on a temporary wait. The employer will be able to apply, by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia, a partial refund of the salary paid, a so-called partial-waiting subsidy of between 20 and 5 hours per week. Domestically, this means that if the employer gives the employee half-time, i.e. reduced working hours in the total of 20 hours per week, the worker will therefore work half-time for 20 hours and for the second half of 20 hours he will receive 80 % of the remuneration. This remuneration will be subsidised by the State in 80 %. The right to a reduced working time subsidy for a reduced working time subsidy will be granted to an employer who, according to his assessment, cannot provide at least 10% of the employees with a minimum of 90% of the work and who employs workers on the basis of a full-time employment contract. It is important that the worker retains all rights in the working relationship at that time. In view of the fact that the main purpose of the measures is to maintain jobs, the employer will not, during the period of receipt of the subsidy and for a month after that period, be allowed to initiate a procedure for the cancellation of the employment contract for a commercial reason to workers who have been ordered to work with reduced working hours or to cancel contracts for a larger number of workers for a commercial reason. The means for this measure will be provided for all those who fulfil the conditions for the use of the measure and who will be eligible for it. As you are certainly following developments at European Union level, you can see that there have already been or are still mechanisms in place to help Member States, in particular funds, one of them is SURE, and some others are in place, from which the Republic of Slovenia will also be able to draw funds, favourable loans to finance these measures. It is not too much to mention that, in view of the projections, we expect or expect that this third anti-kronapack should be required, so that this bearing measure of subsidisation of reduced working time could require somewhere between half billion and one billion funds. The government will provide these funds so that the measure can really respond effectively to the needs of the economy and, of course, respond to the need to protect and preserve many jobs. The third measure, which I have mentioned not long ago, is a voucher for improving the economic situation in the area of tourism, a voucher of value. Tourism is an extremely important sector in Slovenia, representing as much as 10% of gross domestic product. In hospitality and tourism, which are labour intensive industries, more than 58 000 people are employed, which is 6.5 per cent of the working population. The massive closure of inn and accommodation facilities, the interruption of most international flights, travel bans were catastrophic, we can say the domino effect which has affected a huge number of tourism and catering providers. Companies in tourism and catering activities are tied to foreign guests and will certainly not be in large numbers for some time. Tourism as an economic sector will need a lot of time to recover from our assessment, so the measure to encourage domestic consumption is very important because it is fast and efficient. I can already say today, on behalf of the Government, that we have information that some other European countries are considering similar measures. The measure will have a very multiple effect, as everyone who will benefit from the voucher and we believe that this will be a lot of people, at the same time certainly spends more money on other associated services and we estimate that tourism will receive the necessary assistance from the country for a new start. The measure is of an economic nature, it is an economic measure, which is the aid of the Government to the tourism industry. At the same time, its recipients, i.e. the recipients of this voucher, will all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia, all citizens, all citizens and citizens. They will receive a €200 voucher for the full year and €50 for the less than €18. Bones will be able to be redeemed by the end of this year. After presenting these three carrier measures of the third antikron package or exit strategy for the start of the Slovenian economy, I may briefly list some of the other measures contained in the proposal and which we have very much reviewed and discussed with the competent home committee and then adopted them. This third anti-korona package will provide the rapid and favourable liquidity credits of the Slovenian Enterprise Clade and the Slovenian Regional Development Fund. The funds are already provided in the budget, namely EUR 10 million for the Slovenian Enterprise Fund and the poor EUR 14 and a half million for the Slovenian Regional Development Fund. This has allowed about €40 million of favourable liquidity credits for businesses. This will be small credits for small businesses, and in this way we estimate that we will be able to support around 900 companies. Some measures relate to social and social security services, i.e. we will cover the cost of 80 % of the costs of non-executive services for home-based families who provide services due to the epidemic to a substantially reduced extent from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Reimbursement of funds for healthcare professionals due to the failure to carry out an activity is also a measure proposed in this law. For the parents of children who have decided for this period until the end of June and who have kept their children at home, which was also a kindergarten request for a different organisation of work in groups, we will extend the measure until the month of June, namely the exemption from parental pay for kindergarten during this period. It may not be too much to mention the action, the proposal to take action to make provision or reimbursement of the allowance for aid and service or compensation for disability or family pensions to those users of institutional protection – these are homes for older and other welfare institutions that went into domestic protection during the epidemic – about 240 of them in Slovenia – were covered by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The measure will be implemented in such a way that the Republic of Slovenia will reimburse the cost to the contractor and the user will receive a credit from the contractor. Now, according to the law in force, the user should pay the full price, even though he is at home. Among the proposed measures are some that will – as we estimate – encourage the production of Slovenian food, facilitate the construction of plants, facilitate the implementation of irrigation systems and facilitate the use of geothermal energy. At the time of the epidemic, we all felt the importance of Slovenian locally produced healthy food, so that we could also provide the inhabitants of ourselves and the farmers with all of us with this food. When the situation gets worse, we see just how important this is, and the government is trying to make things easier for the producers to increase production. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members, I have briefly tried to present an additional proposal for a law that will allow our country to be as successful as possible as possible in relation to the consequences of the epidemic. We have taken the opinion of professions, residents and all stakeholders as widely as possible into account in the preparation and consideration that we have so far. We have relied on the measures contained in the previous two laws that have helped the most affected groups of people, covering as many as a million 300,000 people. Our guide has been and is now to make the measures simple, usable and inclusive. I believe that with this proposal you have before you, we have shown once again that we have done well. When we and our fellow ministers led by the first Minister, Mr Janez Janša, took over the mandate on 13 March, we wanted to overcome the crown virus as soon as possible, and I am glad that we have succeeded, since we are releasing the situation in the country on 1 June, we are releasing the epidemic situation in the country. That night, on March 13, the situation seemed black, and it turned out that they were actually even worse than we thought. Let us just look at the neighbouring country of Italy and many others. But we did it. Slovenia is one of the most successful countries in the fight against the virus and we can be proud of all citizens that with solidarity and responsibility we can go back to the path of almost normality. It is now up to us to get out of the crisis as successfully as possible. At the end of this presentation, let me draw on the words of another great one, even if perhaps the controversial statesman Napoleon Bonaparte, who said that someone from the beginning knows where his path leads him, does not come far. Nor did we know exactly how to protect the country but we have succeeded and we are still succeeding together, for which I am extremely grateful to all of you. I also conclude with his belief that art is a success in being able to be bold and careful at the same time. With this, I call on you, honourable Members, to support the proposal of the law, because at one time he is bold enough to raise Slovenia even higher among the countries on the European and global performance scale, and I can say with sufficient caution that he preserves all social dialogue protectors the existing rules and arrangements and thus helps our people, encourages our economy and provides a comprehensive basis for the further well-being and success of our country. I would just like to point out the technical note that, as long as the proposed amendment of the coalition groups to Article 26 is adopted, the internal non-compliance in the law will require a harmonisation amendment. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to the president of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, who has considered the proposal to present the Committee's report. Here you go, Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. At its 39th emergency meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities considered the draft Law on Intervention Measures to Eliminate and Eliminate the Consequences of the Covid-19 Epidemic submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. Representatives of the proposer with the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Janez Cigler King, representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service and representatives of the Council of State participated in the work of the committee. The representative of the proposed Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mr Janez Cigler King, first briefly presented the draft law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented their written opinion. The legislative and legal service has examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects and has made comments in the context of the introduction of general provisions and access to certain laws and temporary measures. The Committee also received a joint opinion from the Commission on Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons and the stakeholders of the non-economic activities presented by their representative at the meeting of the Committee and supported the proposal for a law. In the debate, some members and members of the Committee took provisional measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of Covid-19’s infectious disease, while others cautioned that several vulnerable groups had fallen out of these measures. They also considered this package of measures to be more economical and aid to be very poor frame-up because it is too unconditional. With regard to State aid to companies, it was therefore considered that only these should be primarily aimed at maintaining jobs and not subsidising corporate profits, so employers should be committed to retaining jobs, while receiving subsidies and after the same period. They stressed that the law should have guardians to maintain jobs and employment contracts. The Minister of Labour said that bearing the third action against the Crown Act is a measure to subsidise reduced working time. Employers also want to extend the current measure of subsidising waiting for work, but this will only apply to the tourism and hospitality sector and related activities in June. Both measures – subsidising reduced working time and extending the subsidisation of waiting for work – aim at maintaining as many jobs as possible. In the discussion below, the members and members of the Committee presented their views on the above-mentioned measures in more detail and explained the amendments tabled. Proponents of the bill stressed that the proposal was a good one and should be adopted as soon as possible. The measures in the first and second packages are already visible in their view, as the effects are already showing. They also praised the tourism start-up vouchers, which will undoubtedly contribute to improving the situation in this area. However, some members of the Committee felt that the measures were not sufficiently targeted and that they were afraid that they would not achieve their purpose. The broader debate also took place with regard to the above-mentioned vouchers to improve the economic situation in the area of domestic consumption of tourism. One of the key weaknesses of the vouchers, according to the discussers, is the limited usable value. Furthermore, it was also pointed out that the implementation of the exceptional achievements of the extension of contracts after the provision of student nutrition was prevented, as well as the payment to healthcare professionals due to the failure to carry out their activities. With regard to the exemption from parental pay for kindergarten, the minister said that parents who do not attend kindergarten at the time of the prevention of infections would be fully exempt from payment. In conclusion, the Minister thanked everyone, everyone present, in particular for their cooperation and assistance in addressing and at the same time improving the legal provisions. The Committee shall be in accordance with Article 128. [[sign for the end of the debate]] The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly then voted on all articles of the bill and also adopted them. A complementary proposal, which includes the adoption of amendments, is therefore prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As the first to receive the word, Mr Jurij Lepi, to present the position of the Desus Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected minister, with a team, colleagues and colleagues. In March and April, we devoted huge sums of money to stopping life for a while and thereby limiting the Covid-19 epidemic. These real moves were crucial at the right time, i.e. what we did for citizens and the economy, with the first two sets of measures. The measures to protect the labour market, to ensure the liquidity of the economy and social society in general were EUR 5 billion. After two months of fear of all earthlings against the virus, the Republic of Slovenia has made it easier to announce that the epidemic is over. Life can thus slowly return to normal tracks. If we can say that I am looking from a health point of view, the situation in the country is good, on the other hand, it is clear that the final social and economic picture of the consequences of the epidemic has not yet been definitively drawn. [[Incomprehensible]] Even though the worst is behind us, the truth is now that we are facing extremely difficult months, in which we will also face the consequences of a two-month quarantine in the economic and probably social sphere. The downturn, due to the stagnation of most economic sectors, worldwide, is inevitable, and further timely and decisive steps are still necessary to make recovery as effective as possible. Slovenia has also prepared for this. If the measures so far have been preventive in nature, this third is against the Crown Package, of a curative nature and represents an exit strategy after Covid. The objective pursued is to preserve jobs, ensure social cohesion and balance in society. In the third package against coronary measures, which is worth an additional billion euros, two measures, namely, subsidisation of reduced working time and the issuance of tourist vouchers for domestic consumption, are particularly outstanding. Shorter working hours are, in the first place, an explicit motivational measure designed to encourage the economy to activate production processes and thus to help alleviate the rise in the number of unemployed. The start-up of the economy will be gradual, this is understandable, because we are largely tied to doing business with abroad. Thus, State aid to employers, with the possibility of adapting working processes for a short period of time, will help them to wait until full demand and workers will not remain on the road, and this is crucial for the country not to experience additional unemployment. Fortunately, unemployment has begun to calm down even now after its initial steep rise. However, I expect re-employment by means of a measure to subsidise reduced working time. Our assessment is that this is a very important measure and it is not foreign to us, since we used it in Slovenia ten years ago when the last economic and financial crisis was to be tackled. However, the question is how long will it take us this time, whether it will be enough only half a year as provided for in the law, or whether it would take a little longer to move to full economic activity. The measures compared to those in 2009 are more flexible for the economy after the length of the reduced working time, since this time it is a subsidy up to 20 hours a week, while the subsidy in 2009 is tied to a maximum of 8 hours a week and financial incentives in nominal amounts are higher this time. However, we would agree that in order for the economy to be able to survive successfully in the new situation, there should also be a slight transformation. This package, in particular assistance to tourism and hospitality and certain activities linked to it, the possibility of waiting for work and subsidisation by the State continues in a similar form for another month. The “i” tourism measures will also include tourist vouchers intended for the entire population. Slovenian tourism was well ahead of the cavid outbreak, six years in a row we recorded records and an estimate that demand for tourism will fall from 60% to 70%, provided that it is alive at least in the second half of the year, indicating that we urgently need this measure. At the same time, encouraging people to spend their vacations at home is an opportunity to relax, as it is not yet clear how it will be with the opening of borders and the spending of vacation abroad. This is also a good opportunity for us to get to know the beauty of Slovenia better. The proposal for a law contains some other measures, including state aid in the form of grants and repayments to businesses and various forms of aid to economic operators and other beneficiaries in several areas. The law will ensure that unutilized care is reimbursed in homes for older citizens and other public institutions, for all who survived the epidemic at home. Financial assistance shall be provided to aid providers at home, which have been carried out to a limited extent, as well as the disability subsidy, and the payment of the hazard allowance and the specific burden of civil protection personnel and other actors involved in carrying out the tasks of control of the epidemic, and some measures shall also be intended for agriculture. [[Incomprehensible]] Let me get this straight. In the Desus Group, we support all the measures envisaged, and we see them as a benefit and assistance to the entire population in all the measures that have been taken so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Šisko will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! On the table, we have a new law that is necessary for the smooth consequences of the COVID-19 epidemic for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and for the economy to maintain and create new jobs and start an economy, it is necessary to adopt measures that should apply on Monday. Temporary measures are set out in a number of areas, from economy, agriculture, infrastructure, to public procurement. It is important to protect the health and life of people and to ensure liquidity for economic operators in tight economic conditions. Among the solutions is the extension of the provisions relating to waste packaging and construction of buildings. The possibility of partial subsidisation of short-term full-time work is also being regulated. Among the most affected industries is undoubtedly tourism and hospitality. Part of the remuneration will be paid to workers on temporary waiting for work and for employers in the field of tourism and hospitality. The introduction of a voucher or a voucher seems welcome to us as domestic consumption will be strengthened, and the question is how many people will actually take advantage of it and take a little time off at the expense of the state of Slovenia. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the latter should be intended primarily for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to maintain the operation of businesses and jobs in the road transport sector, SIDs shall be allocated to the Bank funds to finance economic operators in this area. We believe that it is also necessary to assist public transport operators in order to extend the validity of special line transport contracts. Farmers were also hit, so it is appropriate to allow them to extend seasonal permits for seasonal work in agriculture or construction. As far as the area of social protection is concerned, it is appropriate to cover the costs of providing care to the users of the protection who have gone to home care for the benefit of the coronavirus. Bureaucratations are already too much, so administrative procedures for admission into the school year 2020/21 will be simplified. But we must not forget the Slovenians in exchange and in the world, for they too have been affected by the epidemic and will be happy with all the help they receive. Our country's public debt will increase by another billion euros with the third anti-korona package. The bill also improves the social situation of the wider circle of beneficiaries. It is true that this is a new law following an urgent procedure, but both the public and external experts could participate in this preparation. It is evident that these are our citizens, so there have also been many comments, opinions, proposals, amendments from different parts, and they are supposed to be blessed to the greatest extent possible. Like the first, the second anti-korona package was not suitable for everyone, so it will now. Nevertheless, in our party we hope that most citizens and citizens will be satisfied with the financial recovery.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Felice Žiža will next present the position of the Italian and Hungarian national groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u88	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. A respected minister, and a team of respected colleagues and colleagues. [[address in Italian and Hungarian]] The Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities supports all three legislative proposals which constitute an exit strategy following the COVID-19 epidemic. COVID-19 still has a strong influence on our lives, habits and work. Up to now, nearly 6 million infected persons have been confirmed in the world. The virus cost 350 thousand deaths. The only effective measure we have against the Coronavirus is regular and thorough washing of deadlines, social distances and related preventive measures. They were accepted and implemented by the government in a timely and effective manner and were well taken into account by residents and residents. These measures are also slowing down, and our researchers are actively involved in finding a vaccine against the virus. The consequences of the pandemic are visible and painful throughout the world. They have led us to the greatest social and economic crisis of the past 100 years. The impact of the pandemic on the decline of this year's gross social product in Slovenia is estimated to be around 8%. The measures included in today's legislative proposals are therefore geared towards job creation and the start-up of economic activity. The problems will also be mitigated by measures and concerted action with European institutions. Under the conditions of the end of the year, jobs are intended to be maintained by subsidising reduced working time. In the field of tourism and hospitality, as well as other jobs, by extending the subsidisation of waiting for work. To resolve these sectors, all inhabitants of Slovenia will receive tourist vouchers of different values according to age. A number of measures are also envisaged in the area of agriculture and health losses will be partly covered. All the measures provided for in those legislative proposals are useful and necessary to improve the social situation of individuals and are necessary to help economic operators and industries affected by the epidemic. In the hope that the COVID-19 epidemic has been completed so far, we can wish that it will not happen again in the autumn, at least not to that extent. Preventively, we must be well prepared and, if possible, re-emerg upon it, surrounded by all the experience we have gained in these months. We will therefore support the Member of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities of Members of the European Union with all three proposals for laws in the third anti-Korona package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by MEP Evra Irgl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have before us a proposal for a law on intervention measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of the COVID-19 epidemic, which is part of the so-called third package of measures. I would like to begin by thanking all those who participated in the drafting of these laws, and you are aware of the importance of adopting a set of measures in due time on the Committee on Labour, which lasted for a period of 17 hours. Slovenia was initially unprepared for the epidemic crisis, but by the third government of Janez Janša and by taking appropriate measures and respecting the measures taken by the population in particular from this first crisis, it emerged as a winner. In Slovenia we have been so, thank God, protected from the consequences and scenes of neighbouring Italy and other countries, although many epidemiologists have told us a different picture. According to an analysis of Oxford University, Slovenia scored 100 points out of 100 points in the fight against the epidemic. We currently have one of the best epidemiological images in Europe, even though we are close to a hot spot in Italy. Regardless of some politically motivated criticisms in Slovenia, facts, numbers and abroad recognize a remarkable achievement in the fight against this crisis. Nevertheless, it must be borne in mind that the consequences of the COVID-19 epidemic will be far-reaching and will affect society as a whole. Already abroad, it is estimated that we are 7th among all countries in terms of the level and appropriateness of the financial measures, which will further underpin this assessment by adopting the third anti-korona package. For the purpose of remedying the consequences of the epidemic, the Government of Janez Janša announced at the time of the performance and began preparing legal packages for their removal with expert groups. The first anti-Korona package was more focused on solving the economy in particular and aimed at helping people. The second package was aimed in particular at ensuring the liquidity of the economy and all those vulnerable groups that were not covered in the first package. Now we have a third package designed to help people, the economy and tourism. As the most important measure, it is certain that partial subsidisation of short-term full-time work, the mitigation of conditions for incentives and investments, the facilitation of municipalities' indebtedness to implement municipal projects, the partial reimbursement measure for workers on hold in tourism, the provision of favourable and rapid liquidity credits from the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, additional agricultural measures, assistance to social security providers at home, scholarship measures, ratings for sports events, risk and defence, the burden on participants of protection, assistance during the epidemic, reimbursement of funds for health care providers, the exemption of payment of parents for kindergartens during the crisis and the renewed tourism vouchers intended for all residents of the Republic of Slovenia. €50 for residents under 18 and €200 for adults. In particular, the latter measure is intended for all residents and at the same time for the relaunching of the Slovenian tourism industry, which was most affected by the epidemic. The four-member family will thus be able to raise 500 euros for a time, to spend somewhere in our beautiful Slovenia. In spite of rapid adoption, such government measures have been coordinated with expert groups and, to the greatest extent possible, with the social partners. The third package was coordinated in the Economic and Social Council, where some social partners even praised the Government's willingness to pay so much attention to coordination of measures in this situation. A high degree of consensus has been reached on the measures taken and the result is that the whole economy supports the proposed and adopted measures and the population and beneficiaries [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] expect the adoption of this third package as soon as possible. [[…]] The criticism of the adoption of the measures is merely politically motivated, as was the political motivation and irresponsible delay and obstruction of the adoption of the third package this week at the meeting of the Committee. We believe that the law is yet another in a series of measures by this Government, which will place the Republic of Slovenia at the very top of the winners of the first wave of the COVID-19 crisis, both in epidemiological, security, social and economic terms, this year [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] is also a major achievement in terms of the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia abroad. [[…]] In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposed law. And one more thing. In particular, in the last week, it has been repeatedly said that the opposition is prevented from speaking in the National Assembly. Mrs. Tanja Fajon told us that last night, and now a little truth. Since the 17th. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u91	Please finish slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u92	I'll be right with you. Since the seventeenth hours of the debate on the Labour Committee, the Group of the Members of the Left has spoken for approximately 13 hours and has spent at least that much time on how they do not have a word. Thank you very much. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca, Igor Peček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr Secretary-General, my colleagues and my colleagues. It has been 14 days since the Government of Janez Janša abolished the epidemic, which will put an end to most of the intervention measures already taken to help citizens and the economy on Sunday. The law before us is therefore intended to provide assistance from 1 June to alleviate and remedy the consequences of the epidemic on the affected sectors. In doing so, the Government, as a key measure, highlights the measure of partial subsidised short-term employment and the measure of supporting tourism and hospitality. As part of the latter, a one-month partial refund measure is being introduced for workers on hold and a €200 tourist voucher is being introduced to improve the economic situation in the field of domestic consumption, in particular tourism. We believe that such a measure is a step in the right direction, but we believe that it is not sufficient. We are proposing a 400-euro voucher for adults and 50-euro vouchers for minors. We also propose the introduction of a monthly base income with a limited period of validity and a spending rate of EUR 100 in Slovenia for persons with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that the additional resources available would have a positive impact on the economy and public consumption, and that the positive effect would also have on the social status of the beneficiaries. The European Central Bank’s resources available to the Republic of Slovenia are primarily the source of funding for these measures. Furthermore, in the letter of Marjan Šarc, together with the other opposition parties, we have prepared additional supplements, with which we certainly did not have to interfere with the Government's work, but only to help improve the measures themselves. We have proposed an extension of the action to subsidise waiting for work for all sectors, with this measure extended by 3 months, the possibility of simultaneous use of part-time measures and a measure to subsidise the posting of workers on waiting for employers. The latter was also intended to commit employers who would benefit from the measures taken by the State to maintain the employment of workers for whom they would receive the subsidy. However, despite the urgency of improving the measures of the third anti-Korron Act, we cannot go beyond some of the controversial articles in the Marjan Šarc List. Here we are referring to the extension of measures under the existing law on the issue of surplus packaging and the acquisition of building permits, thereby restricting the right of the public to participate in decision-making in the field of nature and environment protection. It is also inappropriate to suggest that the Minister would put someone in quarantine without a proposal to do so. Quarantine means a restriction on free movement and free movement is a constitutional category. Unfortunately, because of all the above-mentioned legislation, in the form proposed today, we cannot support it. Nevertheless, as we have said for today's consideration, we have prepared additions and at this point I really hope, and at the same time I call on Members of the coalition groups to study and support the proposed amendments. This will really help people and the economy, which was also the basic purpose of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the MEP. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members. The third anti-Korona package is presented as the exit strategy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia from the economic crisis resulting from the epidemic. At the last minute of the night on 15 May, the government declared the end of the epidemic, which also decided that almost all the measures in the first two packages would cease to apply at the end of May to mitigate the economic and social consequences of the economy. The aid measures put in place barely two months ago are thus being implemented. Thus, the government is making the situation more difficult with its reckless decisions, and unfortunately it is also further reducing predictability for the affected employers and people. The pandemic will not end if the government declares an end to the epidemic. Of course, this does not mean that marriage does not bring good and beneficial solutions. It is a pity that many of them have not been included before or will not be extended. In the absence of timely aid and in the face of severe eligibility conditions in the packages so far, a number of employers did not benefit from aid but decided to suspend or suspend their activities and send workers to the Employment Service. Any such situation has raised the number of unemployed and reduced the possibility of their jobs being re-awakened. One of our main critics is the shortness of the proposed measures. In recent weeks, it has become quite clear that the consequences of the global pandemic will not end with the government declaration of the end of the epidemic in Slovenia. Many industries, especially tourism, hospitality, the meeting industry and events, as well as many other industries, such as the automotive industry and transport, will suffer the consequences and fall in revenues for many months. Therefore, with respect and respect, we have proposed with the amendments a number of amendments to the law, which we believe would contribute to a more successful and efficient exit aid to the economy. We have proposed that the subsidised job waiting measure should be extended until the end of August for all sectors. Here we have heard from the Minister that the government or coalition amendment is extending the measure to all sectors, but unfortunately only for one month. In this way, we would offer the widest possible range of companies the opportunity to maintain employment and their key staff. We also proposed that tourist vouchers could be spent on a much larger range of services in tourism, such as catering, cultural and sports-tourism services and not just on breakfast nights, as this would support the development of Slovenian tourism, as we have put it through our strategy, which is based not only on hotels, but on green, culinary and active tourism. In addition, the vouchers would be paid in fours of five euros and not in one amount to allow for more scattered spending of money among a number of different providers of tourist services. [[Incomprehensible]] The way out of the freeze of most economic activities and people's lives will not be a unique event, but a long process that takes its time. Companies will come from their freeze with smaller financial means and still with liquidity. Weak businesses and a weakened economy will only increase people's concerns. Despite the slow release of restrictive measures, we still have a much higher degree of uncertainty than ever before. Certain social distances are still necessary and continue to limit measures to enable the economy to operate at 100%. Until the economy can function 100%, we will face an economic crisis, and so will the rise of the unemployed, which can very soon exceed the 100 000. We therefore need such an exit strategy, which will be more thoughtful, which will support the exit from the freezing of the company from various activities and which will include longer-term measures that will not expire in one or two months. This is why we are particularly concerned because the Government is also concerned that this package, instead of more effective aid, once again undermines solutions that have nothing to do with effective aid. The constitutionally disputed relaxation of construction and environmental regulations in the second article is, for example, a key substance which, in addition to the way in which the law is adopted, strongly expounds the image of the law and undermines the confidence that the Government will be successful in its way of action. For these reasons, the Social Democrats will not be supported by the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Ambassador Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! At today's extraordinary meeting, we are discussing the third anti-korona legal package. This package includes measures to mitigate in various areas the effects of the Koron virus that affected us in March. In order to combat the spread of the virus, a number of restrictions have been adopted in recent months, which have greatly changed our daily lives – from protection, education, economies, public transport, trade and could still be listed. Regardless of the fact that a number of criticisms regarding the restrictions adopted were public, we must admit that we were successful in the fight against the new crown of the virus. Today our epidemiological image is good. This does not mean that we have defeated the crown virus and that it has left no consequences in our country. On the contrary, whenever a new range of infections may occur to us, we are in a situation where our economy is fragile and more than ever needs an incentive from the state to rise to a pre-crisis level. Today, with this third package, we have not only an opportunity but also an obligation to play an important role in this. In particular, we are constructive about this and have the welfare of our country in front of us. We stress this in particular in the SMC because, at the time of the consideration of this law, we witnessed the opposition's stalling festival on the Committee, which took almost 20 hours. You can answer the question of what their purpose was and what they wanted to accomplish. This is certainly not an indicator of a state-owned society, but even less so, we can call it an effort to get help as soon as possible. We will, of course, support the proposal of the law in the SMC, as we are aware of the importance of the measures included in the law. The key two measures to subsidise reduced working time and tourist vouchers received a lot of media attention, as well as critic cities. In the SMC we are convinced that the measures are good and will therefore achieve their purpose of relaunching and developing the Slovenian economy, particularly tourism. We believe, however, that the proposal for a law should also contain some other measures that we have advocated and advocated for in the SMC during all the measures we have taken so far. This is an exemption for business premises for entrepreneurs who are not allowed to carry out their activities and to assist employees in the creative sector who, because of the ban on collecting their activities in public places, are also not allowed to carry out their activities. In this place, we also appeal that we all put forth further effort together and listen to the finding of solutions for these two areas. As stated in the SMC, we will unanimously support the draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Ambassador Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, chairman. The law against Crown 3 should correct the mistakes of its predecessors and provide the society with the assistance it so desperately needs after the epidemic and the effects of the crisis of capitalism. I say in despair, as the first two packages hit completely past the companies, only 20% of the aid came, only a good percentage of the loans were frozen, not a single guarantee was issued for the liquidity of the economy. The whole range of social groups found itself without assistance to those who received it, the Government stabbed the knife in the back with an ad hoc withdrawal of the epidemic by putting an end to the solidarity income with June. As a result, Europe's second biggest unemployment leap has been found by the European Commission. There are 10,000 people out of work over self-employed, freelancers and students and other workers who are the first to be hit by the crisis, and this is just the beginning. That against the crown packages one big hole we warned in Levica right away and proposed amendments to protect people and jobs, bob against the wall. Now we have the third demonstration of incompetence of the Government of Criminals. Instead of learning something from the disaster of the previous two antikrons, and at least in the National Assembly, the inability of the Government of Janez Janša to remove it, his coalition wanted to sweep it under the rug with a night session, taking the word of the opposition, falling into debates, lies, attacks and all kinds of abuses all to silence criticism. Hungary's extreme right to parliament is an integral part of the coup against the country. Instead of listening to Levice's warning, which we need to stitch up to protect jobs, the coalition's voter goes over us by criminalising the word just as the government goes with the Pendreks and the Marica over peaceful protestors for nature from the Ministry of the Environment and with penalties for cyclists for democracy. The law thus provided assistance to companies for shorter working hours and waiting but without the obligation to capital to actually maintain jobs, even though we have proposed socialists as guardians. If the state orders someone to quarantine, he will lose half his salary and slip into poverty, and that's what we wanted to fix, but we were talking to the walls. Travel vouchers will not help the poor, as the cost of travelling on vacation and the rest cannot be afforded at all. For them, we have proposed the conversion of vouchers into financial means to recover when buying food, school supplies, paying bills and other cost of living. We also wanted to support culture, not just tourism. But the purpose of the voucher is to sponsor the hotel's Febd of Minister Restovalska, not prosperity in general, so the coalition roller took over the initiative. Therefore, he voted so much more vigorously to abolish environmental protection. For power, fracking takes precedence over renewable resources, highway from the railroad, paint shop from the groundwater. Contaminated rivers, polluted earth and dirty air, poor human health and communities are acceptable to them on the altar of investor profits. With the same zeal, the coalition roller voted to abolish anti-corruption guards in public procurement of up to EUR 1 million. Yeah, you heard right, because they can't just steal on masks and fans anymore, the budget will be robbed with orders from the ministries. Both that they'll only earn the right one. Associated suppliers, foreign investors, asphalt mafia and others. At the initiative of the Left, the Coalition has had the opportunity to disable the predatory funds from tax havens and they are not. They had the opportunity to protect a medical cashier who, due to the epidemic, recorded a loss and did not. Why? Through the tax oasis they want to privatise public companies, deliberately stored cash registers are the reason for the privatisation of hospitals and health homes. In order to prevent the people from getting involved in the messes of power, the referendum will be banned for the sake of the law. The Socialists will vote against the crown of the 3rd Act. Our vote is for solidarity, jobs, healthy nature and democracy. Helping people, preserving the environment, dying of fascism, and freedom of the people, the spell, the spell.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Ambassador Jožef Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister Janez Brickler King with a team! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Instead of introducing one finding from today's session. The one who says that the epidemic isn't over, which is true, the first one dropped the mask. A schizophrenic couple of excellencies. Legal solutions, colleagues and colleagues, in anti-kron package 1 and anti-korona package 2, i.e. PKP1 and PKP2, were intercepted. There'll be time for expert analysis. Political takes all the time. Political, too. However, the data of the professional institutions show that the PKP1 and PKP2 solutions have been effective, showing that in the National Assembly, we have protected between 200 and 250 000 employees, on a proposal from the Government, from losing jobs with appropriate and effective measures. On yesterday, 90 000 387 registered unemployed were registered in Slovenia. Without adequate and effective measures of the CAP1 and the CAP2, they would probably be recorded strong over 300 000 today. Slovenia is definitely among the most successful countries in the world in the fight against the COVID-19 epidemic. This is also recognized by foreign or, above all, foreign institutions. We are, however, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, only stage winners. There are many solutions brought by the third package. Among other things, tourist vouchers. There's also a lot of misunderstandings about this. The tourist voucher is not a social policy measure. The tourist voucher is an economic policy measure that helps tourism. Every full-year resident in the Republic of Slovenia receives a voucher for Slovenian tourist accommodations, hotels, holiday homes and the like, amounting to 200 euros, while minors receive a voucher of 50 euros. Bon can be cashed for accommodation or accommodation with breakfast by the end of this year, it is said that Silvestrovanje is included. Colleagues and colleagues, the amendment to Article 26, will be adopted in Novi Slovenija, before you, with special satisfaction, as well as the entire coalition, as a result of the work of the entire coalition. In this place, I would like to thank Minister Janez Cigler King, who has managed to convince the entire Government and convinced them that, as so far as the Government has been concerned, we need a well-functioning economy if we are to fund the social state well. Yes, the best social policy is that policy that gives opportunities to new jobs, investments and so on. You'll all be able to read what this amendment brings. After this amendment, everyone, waiting at work, is subsidising for all employers, for all employers, by the end of June of this year. It also follows that, Mr Janez Cigler the King, is indeed proving to be the real minister for work, family, social affairs and equal opportunities. The law, as I said before, brings a lot of solutions. We are pleased, among other things – I do not have enough time to count everything, perhaps later, in the debate – for example, novelty, intervention [[sign for the end of the debate]] In addition to the Income Act, for the fiscal years 2020 and 2021, the revenue cap for basic agricultural and basic forestry activities is increasing, from EUR 3 000 500 to EUR 7 000. The Community Financing Act – municipalities can be charged with an additional two percentage points, of 10%, instead of 8 revenue per year, together for around EUR 400 million added. [[sign for the end of the debate]] I am informed that the municipalities have already received an average payment for the period from 1 January to the end of May. Of course, we will be happy to support this law as well as the amendments to the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Member Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek. [[advertising from the hall]] First, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u104	Just procedurally, please, chairman. I sincerely apologize to you, but I did get one message that I think is right to say here. All morning we've been doing occult advertising to that disinfectant that's there, the whole of Slovenia is looking exactly at how exactly that product is being advertised, all day, directly. So I think it would be right, whether we cover that ad or write it up, I don't know what it is or turn it around, because I think they're right. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u105	The position of the delegation shall be taken by Marko Bandelli. [[advertising from the hall]] It's written like that. We're fixing, then, my colleague Vojko Starović, please. Let's keep this until the end of the session. [[Laugh]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u106	Here, I think you can see less now, it'll be hard to read. Nice greeting to everyone, thank you for your word, Chairman. With the bill before us, we are introducing temporary measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of the epidemic, which will be in force on 1 June. So, after the existing measures cease to apply. The measures provided for by the law are assessed in the SAB that they are going in the right direction. In doing so, we are particularly pleased that both in the SDS and in New Slovenia, they have recognized the country as a solidarity community that can help, but not only that and that we need as small a country as possible. [[Incomprehensible]] We need the country, and we welcome it. In particular, we point out the following, in this law, namely, subsidisation of part-time work, partial refunds, wages, hospitality and tourism. Assistance to social security providers at home, assistance to maintain businesses and jobs in the road transport sector and most resounding, which is the introduction of a tourist voucher for the relaunch of tourism. The measures aimed at mitigating the crisis have been given a very long debate on the committee responsible. An important substance, if I paraphrase the ministers' words of Mr King, we have considered at two night sessions, after a full-day meeting of the State Council. This, by the way, is an entirely inappropriate practice, but I am sure that we have had an in-depth discussion despite the delay. This is also evident from the set of amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups in order to improve the third anti-Korona package. In the previous two laws, we were in the SAB with amendments, except for one, we failed, and this reflected in the poor feasibility of the law. In fact, we know that we have spent only a fraction of the funds that have been earmarked. There were no beneficiaries. In addition to the additions that we have tabled in the SAB Group with other parliamentary groups, this is about extending the measure of subsidising temporary waiting for work, to all employers and the possibility of using vouchers or vouchers for hospitality and cultural activities, that amendments have already come in this direction. [[Incomprehensible]] So something gave birth. With regard to culture, I would say that I like it at all, that for us Slovenians culture has a very special meaning because it has held us and developed us as a nation through the centuries when we did not have our own countries. That's why we dedicated our holiday to this. However, during the epidemic this culture remained quite dry. The first one had to close the door and will open among the last ones, so they are entitled to help. However, we believe that a large portion of the beneficiaries — elderly or living alone or without anyone — will be easier to go to the theater, attend a cultural event, or go to lunch. It is right that individuals have the option to choose according to the situation and their abilities. This is also a common proposal for the payment of the voucher in most parts of the EUR 50. With accommodation facilities in hotels, autocamps and tourist farms, the law has completely forgotten about the very important part of the accommodation capacity. We've forgotten the sea again. Slovenians don't seem to have it in our hearts or in our heads, even though we have it in ours to say coat of arms, do we? These are the capacity at sea on vessels. Therefore, we also add activities at sea that rent and lease the vessel. [[Incomprehensible]] We Slovenians are a lot of sailors, we have Olympic and world medal bearers in sailing, so we believe that a lot of sailors will decide to spend their holidays on water. In recent days we have also witnessed the public publication of discriminatory services for guests with vouchers and those without. We have also decided to submit a supplement to the Act in question, which undoubtedly states that tourism providers must not offer different prices for the same service. That's unacceptable. In the SAB Group, we believe that proposals for improvements are good and beneficial for citizens and citizens, so we want this to be different. We wish the coalition wouldn't refuse dialogue. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u107	Please, if you'll just finish it slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u108	which is welcome and useful for the country. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Good. Now, we are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. The word is wanted by Minister Janez Cigler King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! I sincerely thank you for everything that has been said in the views of the members of the groups. I see that the majority view that the measures are good, timely, appropriate and thorough. I also hear those who are critical of the measures proposed, and I also hear criticism of the measures contained in the first and second anti-korona packages. I may best respond to these criticisms by reading who and what number it is and by the end of June it will receive assistance after the first and second antikron packages. 200,000 children from families with one or two children, 30,000 large families, are families with three or four or more children. 300,000 pensioners who have pensions of less than 700 euros, 50,000 recipients of cash social assistance, 200,000 employees waiting for work, 32,000 self-employed, about 200,000 workers, 75,000 students, 5,000 farmers and many other vulnerable groups. The anti-coron package three stems from this successful start of the response story to the needs of time during the epidemic and will support its proposed actions, particularly the economy that needs support in starting its activities. As with the first and second anti-korona packages, the measures are targeted, well thought out, we now have much more experience, because in mid-March we did not have cases or experience on the basis of which we could prepare measures, but we had to rely on our knowledge and data to show that a successful strategy and strategy was involved, a broad number of people, professions, a consultative group, an expert consultative group, a government with its members and all co-workers, a ministry. In the beginning, so in mid-March we assessed, for example, if I refer to the labour market, we estimated that there could be around 260 000 jobs at risk during the epidemic. In view of the use of these measures so far, it has been shown that the assessment has been accurate, even on a time basis, we have already designed the measures by 31 May and the current course, a very favourable course of the epidemic shows that we have also provided for measures and our actions in the fight against the epidemic in time. I am aware that wishes are still numerous, let's say that waiting at home would be offered for at least a few months. I am aware that many would like much more, but at the same time it is the government's assessment that we must first support the economy, to offer measures that will promote as quickly as possible and maximise the activation of the operation of production. On the other hand, we want to respond to the needs of those sectors that are still in a frenzy that will not be able to fully begin their operations, even in half. Therefore, after extensive consultations, we listened to the economy and offered a measure of waiting for work for the month of June. At the same time, we would like to see, and after the experience of some European countries, also neighbouring Austria, we expect a successful short-term measure, which will be for industries that are partially already faced with orders, perhaps the demand for their work, and in another part may not allow them to maintain jobs, and then, when they are relaunched, they can immediately continue their normal work with their employees. As the Minister of Labour, as the Minister responsible for the labour market, I repeatedly stress and repeat that there was a very interesting situation in the labour market just before the crown epidemic, companies could not get workers, companies had a great difficulty in getting employees. I appeal to all employers, and I can see that they also hear this appeal, because they have made great use of the proposed measures for the economy and for the employees, to try as much as possible and to the extent that they can keep these employees, because, even after the forecasts of optimistic forecasts, our economic growth has re-established the UMAR predicts that we could be at a pre-crisis level by 2021, so that companies can then be fully equipped with their employees to continue their activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Left, the LMŠ and the SD. Anybody want to talk? I see it's an interest in the application, so we'll initiate the application procedure. Seven reported. The first one gets the word of Member Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u112	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today we have a third so-called PKP ahead of us. How successful were the first two will be told by the users themselves. This means that they are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Minister, you've listed some numbers, how many people have been entitled to this. Quick, you really think you said the same number as on the board itself, it's about 1.3 million people. Now I'm just a little bit doubtful if help has reached such a large number of people. I hope in months when users can really say we're going to get close to this number. The fact is that laws are quick to adopt, which is, of course, quite logical, but the question is whether they are effective and if they are as good as the Government speaks. The first and second marriages involved social dialogue, if I may say so. Why was he ridden, or why did I use that term? Because the parties that are currently in the coalition have often on the committees themselves, the previous Government has seen the importance of social dialogue. Now we know that it was an epidemic and that it was a bit difficult to meet, but in the 21st century there is technology, ad even the most serious things and the largest organizations are meeting through videoconferences. Now, although the Economic and Social Council has met in the PKP3, the fact that it has dealt with only individual articles is what it concerns. Now to say that the whole marriage has been made known, the Economic and Social Council, and that everyone agrees with it, is a little tricky. The opposition itself was not included in this law; in fact, we received it 3, 4 days before the very meeting, which was convened very quickly. Now, for the first PKP1, we can make comments, but we know to what extent they have been taken into account. Now, to say that the opposition is boycotting or delaying the adoption of this law is kind of funny, because if we know that we're talking about over 500 million, it's more than half a billion euros, of course, it's a little funny that this law is being passed at night. Now, we know that before the adoption, or before the committee itself, there was a plenary session, and if we had used all the time that was available, this law would have started after 12 o'clock because we had squandered some time, it started at seven o'clock and we didn't actually finish it in twelve o'clock. Now, to speak as much as the opposition spoke, yes, thank God that the opposition spoke and tabled amendments, while the coalition MPs were quite quiet and although, the law has 87 articles, what is wrong with it, the Law-Legal Service also said. The coalition submits 42 amendments and is in fact all the time silent. Now I don't know if they've even read the articles they tabled, if they've been prepared by the Government again, as in the past, on a committee that's been quite controversial. Now that you have rejected all the amendments of the opposition also tells you how much you actually want to cooperate with us. Now, why is this law, even though it has some encouraging issues that solve individual areas, why is this marriage unacceptable to the List of Marjan Šarcs? Because once again there are articles that have absolutely nothing to do with this law or with the solution of tourism. Article 2, which is in fact very controversial and which is once again moving NGOs away from what they are intended to do, actually has nothing and absolutely nothing to do with tourism itself. Now, NGOs are like a culture like the Ombudsman, it's said, the state is funding it, and they're setting up a mirror of what's wrong with power. And of course there are NGOs that are somehow, in violation of individual matters, but the easiest thing is simply to put an end to them. Article 8 is also disputed, which speaks to anyone who can declare a quarantine that it is only within the competence of a health minister who can at any time decide without the grounds of the profession that it is also controversial. So these two articles, even if they were the substantive best articles and in fact were to solve everything, have absolutely no basis to be in this law, they could go open individual laws and settle these matters there. Now, although you have actually rejected all the amendments on the committee, without telling the coalition MPs why you disagreed with them, in fact you simply voted against them, we have tabled again, together with the opposition quite a few amendments, but there are many of them closed, so we also had to adjust the matter a little, because all the articles are not open. Now, the main issue of this law is the so-called vouchers, which we welcome in the List of Marjan Šarc, but it is a little funny that today or you will most likely accept these vouchers, but we still do not know how these vouchers will work in practice. Today at the press conference, the Minister of Economy said that the government would adopt a decree and hope that it would enter into force in June. We know that this will be a very complicated system, and I am very interested in what this system will be like, and if it works in practice, then users will advertise again what they are not doing, something that, in their own words, is worth it and that they have not received this money. We are now proposing in this article that these tourist vouchers rise from EUR 200 to EUR 400, because the four-member family, when we look at the offers a little bit, is not really enough with what you are offering. We need to speed up consumption and 900 euros for the four-member family is somehow the amount we could afford some normal holidays. We are also somehow this universal core income, says EUR 100 not only for tourism, but in fact that the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia can also use this for other matters relating to tourism. Now you have also rejected our amendment to the committee so that you can simultaneously use both waiting for work and working hours, which grieves us. Now that all the articles are not open again, we had to adjust this article somehow, it is said that the employer can at least use it consecutively, either waiting for work or short working hours, and I hope that you will at least accept this matter. I am pleased, however, that you have extended all the sectors for one month of waiting for work, but it is interesting that we have also proposed to the committee for three months, and you have rejected this matter. Now you're all saying that you can't reduce your labour rights, and that's why we've proposed to the committee an amendment that, for how long, an employer can benefit from an issue for his employee, he can't forgive his employee for so much time. Now that you've rejected this amendment, I'm wondering if that actually holds what you're saying is that it's for you not to get any less workers' rights. And that is why, together with the opposition, we have tabled an amendment that somehow makes a retirement for those who are being dismissed by the employer. In fact, it is again forgotten about young people, as we personally say in the List of Marjan Šarc all the time, and although, for example, Article 59 speaks about it somehow or you want to do well for young people because, in fact, when obtaining a Zois scholarship, they would have made extraordinary achievements in recent years. In fact, by erasing the current year, you have overrun all those who have achieved this remarkable achievement in this school year. The fact is that many school competitions have not been held, but we must not forget what falls under the extraordinary achievements at all — that these are scientific works that students were able to write in the past year and that they were given in this year. And in fact, your intention was to get young students into an unequal position, but you actually put them in an unequal position because it doesn't take account of the current year. As I've said many times before, you've actually forgotten about the young. Given that young people have more than €500 per month following an Euro student's investigation, you have given them 150 euros per month, which means 50 euros per month over the last three months, if we know that, for example, in Podrav, student work has fallen by more than 90%. The threshold of poverty we know where it is, and I don't think it's in the world of a man who can survive from 50 euros a month. The same is true of the student diet, where you have automatically extended the use of the vouchers, it is said that there is no invitation to tender for new student food providers. At the same time, you forget that many innkeepers who actually offer student food will fail. But it will go to waste because, in fact, the students are not in Ljubljana, not in Maribor and not in any university city. And if students can't use the vouchers, in fact, the bidders can't cash in on these subsidies. And since many of the guests are going to fail, you have made it impossible for all those who would like to re-apply and open up a restaurant for them to sign up. And the third thing I want to point out, which is a good thing – this is paragraph 67, the values for sports events. We know that sports events are actually disabled, and at the same time we are adding with our amendment the values for concerts and cultural events, because we know that many of these cannot be implemented, for example. I think he's gonna be 1 now. 6. 2020 allowed more than 200 people, and so far all these musical events or even some operas and dramas actually have more than 100 performers, it is said that they have already outgrown the number that was allowed. We also add that the consumer should decide for himself whether or not to use this value or actually require money back. So, even though you're saying that it's all been agreed that everyone agrees, many groups have been released again. As I said before, this law will ultimately be judged by the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia, who will tell themselves whether these measures really came to them as you spoke and they hoped.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Member Marko Pogačnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your word! Colleagues and colleagues! Now ahead of us is the antikron package 3 prepared by the Government of Janez Janša, which means that today the National Assembly is discussing in a relatively short time already in the third package. The first anti-Korona package and the second anti-Korona package would be ready, and I am sure that these two packages were very effective and successful. That the packages were both effective and successful talks at a given time an epidemiological picture of Covid-19 in Slovenia, which is among the best in Europe and the world. However, it is clear that the measures have been effective and successful that this is also the recognition of types of media in foreign and foreign countries. I am convinced that the measures have also been successful and effective, because they have also been supported by the largest economic stakeholders, namely the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and, last but not least, all stakeholders were involved in these measures. I am convinced that, above all, two proposals made by opposition parties and stakeholders in the field have been taken into account in the anti-Korona package. Now the anti-Korona package three is mainly heading towards the exit strategy of Covid-19 and this package is somehow worth more than €1 billion. An important part of this is the extension of some of the measures in package 2 and 1 anti-coron measures, which means that it will be important to extend the subsidisation of waiting for work for one month, which means that both employers and workers will be burdened. One of the most important measures included in this third package is, in particular, the subsidisation of working time, i.e. between 5 and 20 hours a week, a measure which is as important at the moment as it is for the employer and for the employer. The third part of the vouchers, vouchers to be paid by all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia over 18 years of age, amounting to €200 and €50 for less than 18 years. I am convinced that the measure is going in the right direction, that the Government has decided to make the right decision, because these vouchers are mainly intended for tourism. Tourism is one of the most important industries in Slovenia, which already represents almost 13% of GDP, and this part of the industry is among the most affected not only in Slovenia in Europe and around the world. The government could opt for a measure that would go in the direction of financing only the tourism part with a directive money contribution, but the government has decided on a second path this means that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who deserve it should also have one. I'm sure there's a double victory here. The victory will be for tourism activities and the victory will be for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who will receive a voucher that will be cashable by the end of the year of EUR 200 and will or will be able to afford a holiday in Slovenia. In one way, the opposition does not understand that it has turned both against these measures, the type of attacks, but it must be said that both package 1 and package 2 did not vote against these two packages, and you have expressed the fact that somehow these packages and the measures included in these two packages are also in agreement. On the one hand, the opposition also tells the committees, especially the Commission on Public Finance Control in the same breath, how the measures go wrong, because Slovenia will be too indebted and too much money is being spent, and then in the same breath the opposition says that the Government of Janez Janša has forgotten the number of groups and that more resources have to be made available. I think the opposition will have to decide with honor whether the government of Janez Janša spends too much money or spends too little. You can't say that in the same breath. In particular, MEPs and MEPs of the Social Democrats and, last but not least, the Left were the loudest. Make up your mind. I am convinced that Slovenia has taken the right path that the Government of Janez Janša has taken the right path and that, never before in the history of Slovenia have citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia received so much funding, but at a given time, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of Janez Janša and the coalition of SDS, SMC, Desus the first nationals and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenian companies, as well as the right ones. In previous systems in previous governments, banks were freed, financial institutions were freed, citizens and citizens were forgotten. The government of Janez Janša has not forgotten the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia at this time, and the next package is being prepared. The fact is that there is no magic wand, there is no government, there is no country, as I have already mentioned many times, with one package, there is no way to fix it, but the issue is a systemic approach step by step and there is also this effectiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Member Primož Siter has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! The aim of all these measures is that we all understand aid for both people and the economy. Now, regardless of the pierar, regardless of the promotion, no matter how many times the government and its representatives repeat themselves, how successful they are, how all these measures hit fertile ground, have come true, the actual numbers speak differently. In the opposition, we are not at all critical to the non-lifelessness of these measures, that we are at the very top of Europe, we also have figures that say that only at the bottom of Europe, especially statistics say that the number of people who have lost their jobs due to the epidemic has plunged into unemployment, only Greece is ahead of us, and I know what the other picture has been in Greece for the past 10 years, and Italy, and we also know what the epidemiological picture is there, how it hit there, is in this statistics for the better. Then deferrals of credits that were sung in the first or second package. The implementation of 14.3 per cent not to mention the provision of liquidity, not a single State guarantee loan has been implemented to date. These are these statistics, these are government measures, which, hand to heart, do not flow to people and to businesses. Then there are things that don't fit in at all, "the under-laws", "the under-law" and some repressive measures, and the ban on the referendum, and the impoverishment of environmentalists, who today will be fast paced on the wallpaper, long and fast, and so on, and so on, the way these things were dealt with, at night, away from the public, away from the public concerned, away from the professional public, without discussing coalition Members and Members, with holes in the social dialogue and so on. [[…]] It's empty and out of touch with people. But we're still here. In the Left Group we propose because one group, still, will be one group of amendments, which will already, if this is the situation, the initial situation, the bad, at least a little, with one patch, “safil” these gaps. Let me say, at the very beginning of our discussions, I touch on the usefulness of the two amendments that we have proposed, imagine, on a practical occasion, imagine a man on a minimum wage, a father, for example, in a four-member family, living three other people, a wife is unemployed, two children and a minister instructs him, which is already controversial in itself, giving him a quarantine. A person loses his job, does not have to work, loses his income and is paid 50% by the State, i.e., coverage, 50% of the coverage of his other salary. If he's working on a minimum wage, that means that the state is generously giving him €350, which means, hand to heart, you can't do anything. You can't pay rent, checkouts, buy something to eat, take the kid out for ice cream. This is non-life, so in the Left Group we propose one correction of this and raise this level to 80% or to cover the minimum cost of living, plus 20%, which allows us to say at least one approximately normal survival of this time. And imagine this man, who then gets one, which is basically a sweet thing, and he could understand as a well-intentioned, tourist voucher, worth 200 euros, for him, for his wife, for two children and together get 500 euros, which is a nice and sweet gesture, perhaps, but for such a family, at the social bottom, useless. Why? Because if you want to spend 200 euros in some tourist arrangement, you have to get there, and you have 200 euros to sleep and breakfast, it's nice to have something else to eat or pay a ticket and, or even to get to, I don't know, Portorož, Ptuj, Kranjska Gora or anywhere. Anyone who has ever gone on vacation knows that staying and breakfast are not the main cost. Therefore, once again, with a little reality, a scrupulous measure is useless and could, as our amendment suggests, be plunged into something that is essential for the human being, at the social bottom, and this is the financial aid that will enable him to devote these funds to something that he urgently needs, to what kind of food cart, to the bills, to rent and so on. One of our amendments, too. And now, if I correct the Minister, what we are proposing in the left-wing Group is not wishes, they are not desires of the opposition. These are, excuse me, bread and roof and some ice cream for some kid. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, here I appeal primarily to Members and Members of the government coalition, you have been silent on the working body, I hope that you will not now, especially in the work when it comes to voting. We have amendments that allow at least one measure, at least one tiny part of what would at least roughly correct this disagreement between the Government and the people it rules, to eliminate at least one measure that, to say the least, helps a person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The text is by Ambassador Andre Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u118	Yes, thank you for your word. The PKP3 proposal that we are considering today is already the third in the series of adoptions of intervention legislation related to the Covid-19 epidemic, with which the Government is trying to help the economy. The first package of PKP1 laws is against the crown package, which expires at the end of May, replaced people's income; the second anti-korona package was intended to increase the liquidity of the economy with the guarantee scheme of 2 billion. Today's PKP 3, to summarize briefly, introduces a scheme to subsidise reduced working time and tourist vouchers and to extend the possibility of waiting for work. We have heard the Minister at the opening presentation that an amendment has also been tabled, it is said that the possibility of waiting for work for all activities is extended for one month, which we welcome. What is the effectiveness of all these measures all three against or the first two anti-korona packages I will illustrate a little later. Articles that have nothing to do with helping people and the economy, which not only do not fit in the law, have also been stolen into all laws, but have even proved to be constitutionally controversial and even harmful. That is why we have also submitted to the LMŠ a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of certain articles, which were mainly in the sense of excessive police powers. Thus, article 8 of today's law also snuck in, when the Minister of Health may, by the end of the year, without a prior review or a proposal from the profession, be quarantined, according to the Institute for Public Health of the Republic of Slovenia. This seems extremely unacceptable to us, and we have also proposed deleting this article. The disputed article on the construction of buildings and waste, as defined in Article 2 of the draft law, is also being extended. This also seems to us to be controversial, so this article is also proposed to delete by introducing an amendment. In the opposition, we have already tabled an amendment on the working body and today we have tabled an amendment, as I said, to delete these two articles. Of course, on the board, these amendments were slightly rejected. But I am counting on the wisdom of the coalition to support this amendment today. There would be something else that does not fit in this intervention legislation, which we warn everyone through in the opposition, but unfortunately we always run into a deaf ear. We have already considered the draft law on the working body of the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee. Why am I bringing this up? Because we've been treating him in the middle of the night from 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 a.m. in the morning. I don't know what that was meant for. But I do know that there really wasn't a need for such haste and night meetings, to stage emergency situations or, rather, to pretend like we had a war situation. We are in perfectly normal times and, in fact, the situation has calmed down and we can move on to a normal steady rhythm. I agree that laws relating to the epidemic are needed as soon as possible. However, perhaps this has to do with the fact that the Government lifted the epidemic on 14 May, and this withdrawal was undoubtedly political in nature, probably in order to put an end to the measures under the CAP1. Therefore, the adoption of the CAP3 is also in a hurry, since on 1 June it will be here whenever all the other measures cease to apply. Obviously, I can only conclude from the fact that the government was afraid that the expenditure was already too high, although a large part of the aid had not been used at all. In fact, all of this reminds us of the times of the government of Janez Janša in 2012 and the time of the ZUJF, when it was being saved and thus stopped consumption and consequently deepened the crisis. By such measures or following a new failure that no longer applies, the Government is making the same mistakes and is secretly saving. However, it is worth noting that only in certain groups of people. When she bought masks and fans, she didn't save lives because she saved lives, as they said. The fact is, on the one hand, many companies still do not work because of government measures, and on the other hand, the economy already has major liquidity problems. That is why we still need measures and assistance from the state. Certain measures, in particular the waiting-for-work measure, have been repealed prematurely. This is recalled by everyone, the whole economy and also by visible economists. We have therefore also prepared an amendment in the LMŠ to extend this measure by three months until 31 August, for all activities, not only for tourism and hospitality, as has already been the case, but this amendment has also been rejected by the coalition. The short-term measure should at present only be an upgrade to the waiting-for-work measure rather than a compensation, because if you do not have a job, the short-term measure will not help you. Therefore, we also propose that both measures should be harmonised in order to remove the complexity of the procedures and requirements, at the same time binding on the prohibition of dismissal for the period of receipt of the subsidy and being applied simultaneously. However, the company should only assess which measure and for which employee it will benefit, as everything depends on what business process the company has. I think this would help alleviate the economic problems. On the committee, Minister Janez King Cigler said in his opening presentation that we had captured and assisted 1.3 million Slovenians with the first and second crowns. And with the third crown, we're actually going to help everyone. In this way, he was referring to the value card for tourism that will be given to every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. However, I do not believe that this is entirely true, especially theoretically yes, but not in practice. In fact, no package is equipped with an assessment of the financial effects or estimates are unrealistic and approximate. The measures are bureaucratic, ineffective, which also shows that only one fifth of the promised solutions have actually been implemented, which is also confirmed by the report of the fiscal world and which I believe is to believe. In view of all the measures that have been taken so far, only 20% have been used, as I said, not because the economy would no longer be in trouble, but because the government is so uncontrolledly fasting and, despite the fact that we are coming too slowly, they are accompanied by non-constant regulations and regulations, also because of the wrong co-existence of the adoption of measures. According to the Government's assessment, the first anti-Korona package was worth 3 billion, later reduced to 2 billion in the Stability Pact, and by mid-May only 350 million euros of aid had been absorbed from these estimates. This package included reimbursements for workers on hold of EUR 600 million. Only 50 million were paid by mid-May. The payment of employees' contributions on hold was EUR 300 million, and by mid-May only EUR 19 million had been released. This is just a few numbers quoted by the Fiscal Council in its report. And yes, the Minister said that all these measures are very effective, how many citizens and citizens have already been involved in these subsidies. These data are given by mid-May. The final effectiveness of the measures will only be assessed after 15 May, taking into account the measures to be implemented or taken into account after that date. At the time the epidemic was declared, unemployment had increased very much, and we know that in April more than 90 000 people were unemployed, which is more than the same period last year for a good 20%. And in the European Union, we may be really successful in overcoming the virus, in the health sense, but we are not in increasing unemployment during the crisis. We're in second place, and it shows something's wrong. The third crown of the economic aid package is or should be directed towards a threatening domestic and European recession. Reducing foreign demand will result in a decline in GDP in Slovenia. The two-month closure of practically the entire economy was fateful and radical, resulting in a large decline in economic growth, an increase in unemployment, as the whole economy was virtually thrown into a very precarious and difficult situation overnight. The aid is recognized, overly complicated, and the timetable of the measures is wrong. This is not what I invented, it is pointed out by the eminent experts, the economy and the numbers and, finally, the reports of the Fiscal Council. If we just look at the liquidity measure of the economy that we took in the second crown package. Other European countries have taken care of the liquidity of the economy in the first package already in March. This law only entered into force with us on May 1st, and unfortunately it doesn't work for a month. The government has taken 14 days for a regulation that is in practice impractical and has not yet been granted a single state guarantee loan. These loans are, after all, too expensive to the extent of the interest rate and the cost of the approval. Why guarantees work easily in Italy, Germany or Austria in our country, this is a matter for the Government. We have always warned about the impossibility of the law in the LMŠ, also warned the profession and the banks, the government and the coalition, but you did not want to hear the warnings. However, since we have warned from the first package on many pressing matters, the government does not hear, has not accepted any of our amendments, although every time it says that this is not the time because it is in a hurry, send us proposals, we will take them into account in the next law. Apparently, our proposals we've been sending to the government have landed in the trash bin. The government is speaking one way, doing another, and we can say that the health crisis is inversely proportional to the economic one when the first one disappears, the other one is just coming. And this one is very worrying, it's called an economic crisis. And regardless of or in the light of the last manoeuvre taken, when it happened for the first time in the history of Slovenia, that the Government has politically and unlawfully replaced the director of the SURS, Dr. Bojan Teaching, we can rightly be concerned. The statement v.d. Director Tomaž Smrekar, who says that his priority will be to monitor the effects of government measures on all anti-Korona packages. Furthermore, what is underestimating is that the members of the Statistical Office are incomprehensible and I can say boldly, when he says, quote: it is impossible for 300 people at the Statistical Office to analyse this qualitatively, which means that they come here against the researchers, we can talk about this Lachovnik advisory group. End of story. I hope you've all heard what I just read. In fact, this means that those who are preparing the measures will now also be analysed. The SURS has very important data, including sensitive data, which are the basis for the UMAR forecasts, which are the basis for all economic policies adopted by the Government, the budget balance or austerity measures. In an interview with RTV Slovenia last night, Prime Minister Janez Janša announced a sharp economic growth at the beginning of next year. I don't know, given the effectiveness of the measures, this is not expected, but maybe Catch is somewhere else. Perhaps I would also like to recall here the case of Greece, which has prepared data on the public deficit and public debt. And that's it. With the help of the economy, we have been late for two months not to mention highly liberalised procedures for obtaining these aids. Not everything is as beautiful as some want to show, unfortunately. But what is most sad is that by transferring the government and the coalition, the liquidity contractions of companies are only deepening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u119	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to inform you that on the e-club you have an overview of the amendments currently tabled so that you can also use them. Now we continue the debate. I give my word to Mr. Sam Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. Although I am faithfully wearing a mask, I will now remove the mask during the performance, because the formal epidemic is not yet over, it is said that it will be over on June 1st - as the matter will end, we will see. Unlike other opposition colleagues, I am going to commend the government a little bit unusually, because it has made a great deal of effort in drafting all three laws, although I do not support the government to make it clear. I would also like to commend the members and members of all the competent committees that have worked very hard to prepare all these three laws. I would also like to commend the expert colleagues in the parliamentary group, who have probably worked very hard in all other parliamentary groups. It took a great deal of material, reminders, amendments, so that the work was varied. I hope it's fruitful, too. Unfortunately, as far as I know, the coalition has only accepted one amendment of the opposition, and I think that one amendment proposed by party Alenka Bratušek and all the other amendments were rejected. Now, when invited to a partnership for development, if this was sincere, it would be a good signal if the government also supported some important amendments of the opposition to these three laws that we are considering today. If, of course, that was an honest invitation. I believe that there are several proposals among the opposition's amendments that would make sense to support them, and that would also win the marriage package number 3 on content and on quality and might involve more beneficiaries of aid that are of course needed. I would now like to ask the representatives of the government, especially the Minister or the Secretary of State, for an explanation. There is some confusion about this law. Article 24, paragraphs 26 and 36. In fact, if we look at what Section 24 of the Act says, the measure in this chapter is said to be in the chapter of partial subsidisation of short-term full-time work, it is not compatible with the measure of this Act under subsection 2.1, the measure of partial reimbursement of compensation to workers on temporary waiting for work and to employers in the field of tourism and hospitality. Some aid is said to be excluded. Therefore, for reasons of legal clarity, the Social Democrats have tabled an amendment to Article 36, which would add a fourth paragraph, which would state that, irrespective of Article 24 of this Law, an employer who receives a partial refund for compensation to workers on temporary leave of work may, at the end of the temporary stay, apply for partial subsidisation of the short term. For reasons of legal certainty and clarity, we add this provision to the fourth paragraph of this Article, which states that employers in the field of tourism and hospitality who receive a subsidy for part-time remuneration may apply for a full-time subsidy at the end of this measure. The measure of the waiting allowance expires on 30 June 2020, while the short-term subsidy measure lasts until 31 December 2020. Or, more simply, it is impossible to understand from this law, or you can choose only one option, for example, to wait for work, which is now scheduled for up to 30 years. 6. 2020. Many activities, industries, not only tourism and hospitality, but also the automotive industry, will suffer the consequences and fall in income for many months. Well, it's supposed to be waiting for a job that's scheduled for up to 30. 6. Only this option or half-time until 31 December is possible. It means that when it was, even if tourism and hospitality were the most affected and they were, and this activity was actually closed, there were people waiting at home. [[…]] Then things got loose, some went to work, others were still waiting at home, and now they're gonna wait till 30. 6. and let's say that with July, August tourism will relax, or are now justified that because some will go to work, but not all that others for which it will not be possible to work enough to have a half-time until 31. 12. That is what I would ask if we could clarify and, in the absence of legal uncertainty, we have tabled an amendment to Article 36 in the Group of Social Democrats. I talked about the various articles and amendments to these different articles, because I didn't wait for him to come to Article 36, but I did call earlier, and I hope the president won't mind me too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Mrs Mateja Babič, asked for the floor. Here you go. The fisherman.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u122	Yes, thank you very much. I would just like to answer this question straight away so that, in the end, it is not forgotten that the coalition has tabled an amendment to Article 26 where, in fact, this measure of waiting for work for all sectors for one month. And if Article 26 is adopted, then, as Mr Minister has already announced, the harmonisation amendment is proposed. And this harmonisation amendment will also delete Article 24, which means that a combination of both measures will be possible, means both waiting for work and working hours with the same employer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Member Predrag Baković has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Yes, we have before us a new package of intervention measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of the epidemic. There have been key solutions that relate to several areas, but I will say that some of them seem the most important to me, one of them is the extension of waiting for work. Unfortunately, we are only going here for one month, and we proposed three on the committee at the time, but this was not accepted. Now, I'm glad it's extending for all sectors, not just for certain things that are fine. Now, if we took these into account, this period of one every three months, we would surely have been more successful in avoiding a fall in unemployment that plagues us. As we have already heard in the debates and in the opinions, this decline is somewhere or is currently some 90,000 unemployed, and the fall from February to May, or the increase in the unemployment rate, is 14.4 per cent, compared with April 2019 and April 2020, we can see that the increase in the unemployment rate is 20 per cent. Here we must also take into account the crisis that arises in the automotive industry, the Renault forecast, which says they will somehow eliminate 15,000 jobs, of which 4 000 600 in France, and everything else outside the country, and we must also take into account this fact, what it means for us, for our company Revoz. Finally, the State has also given certain resources to this company and it is right to foresee things that could happen and which would have serious consequences both for the unemployment rate and for the country itself. Now, as regards the introduction of a reduced working time for the affected, here I had the same concerns and dilemmas as my colleague Sam Bevk expressed them, and I am pleased that the Secretary of State has responded to this now, so that I would not lose my words here. The third thing I would like to point out in particular is this voucher, which I personally consider to be a welcome solution, but I am sorry that it is limited to overnight accommodations and therefore somehow I am assessing that many will not be able to benefit from it, because with regard to the transferability to another person, I am afraid that there will be no platform for some illegal conduct. Now, if I remember that story myself, and those older ones will remember the story of the certificates, I must say that there have been some abuses at a time where domestic violence and extortion and many more have actually been established by some organized groups that went from door to door mainly to older people and listened to themselves and, in some way, I am afraid that this has happened at some point. Of course, we or we have tabled an amendment to extend the range of recipients of these tourist vouchers, also called hospitality, to culture and sport, to somehow divide the vouchers into smaller ones of 50 euros, which I think makes sense, but this has not been taken into account. I regret that the coalition on the committees where this issue has been addressed did not take into account the proposals of the opposition and the affected groups. If at least something were to be taken into account, of course, it could avoid the fallout of many affected and it could also be too late for aid, which could, however, become ineffective but can be ineffective even if it is substantively appropriate. I think that if this were to be taken into account, this would actually be a real gesture, and some kind of agreement that we got on cooperation would not actually be necessary, or if it had already had more weight, because we have not already found ourselves here in some kind of cooperation, but unfortunately I have to say that the story from the previous two packages has only happened again and it seems to me that this is not right. For once that much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Mr Simon Zajc, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u126	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I could quickly respond to the concerns or suggestions of others regarding the vouchers. I know that we will, then, also talk about this in the article itself, but to clarify it as soon as possible, it seems appropriate for me to explain for a short time now only the idea, the purpose of the voucher and then all the questions to be answered, when we are either expanding the use or possibilities to be redeemed in different providers or how we are regulating the transfer itself. The idea of a voucher is, of course, that through the population, it will help that the catering or tourism sector, of course, will not have to be forgiven for more people. We know that this is a sector that is one of the most affected sectors in general and in this way, given that we are aware that only through promotion and addressing through advertising and advertising videos can we achieve that more people are spending their vacation in Slovenia we have also decided on this step. Now why did we limit ourselves to accommodation facilities only? Because we want to bring a Slovenian guest to Slovenian places, and the easiest way to do that is to give him a overnight voucher with breakfast more than that, because we want when the guest comes there, not only to stay in this accommodation facility, but to go, of course, this place also to explore, to look at some cultural significance, to go to some concert, to go to rafting, to lunch in a mountain cottage, then to explore this place and to achieve this multiplier effect, so that it is not only 200 euros, but another 100, 150 that this person will then benefit. Such a measure can, although I can see that it is very positive, I think that it is very good and positive if we leave too much room for the various abuses that you yourself have mentioned the real concern that we will achieve that abuses will not occur in the case of tolerance is equally great if we allow or determine that the vouchers can be remunerated everywhere. For already there is a system in the installation facilities that when you log in, your data will be collected and this data will also appear in the APIS database. We have good control over the fact that there has been no abuse. So that this guest was really in this facility, that he spent so much time there and that the purpose for which the voucher was issued was also achieved. However, in the event that we extend this to all possible other services, we have no possibility of really controlling this and opening the door to all possible abuses, which we do not want. We want this measure to be good, to not be abused and to be served by people. As a result, the positive effects will also be on all other services, i.e. in the restaurant, because the person who comes to stay in one place will of course also want to try local food, he may go to the farm to buy pumpkin oil and so on. In short, these effects will then be, and will also be received by other providers, both in the restaurant and in cultural activities and so on. However, control or control and thus the possibility of preventing abuse are the greatest in this way. However we're going to put exceptions in there, we're going to expand them, we're going to open the doors, and we're just going to extend the time that Furs is going to be able to adapt to set up the system. We want to, and in this way I believe that we will achieve a very rapid set-up of the system and very quickly then also implement the measure itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Replica Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u128	Yeah, it'll be very short. Yes, I understand that, and I understand that this is not about social assistance, but about economic assistance to tourism. In fact, I understand this, but I also hear that at the level of the European Community, it will be checked whether this is possibly an illegal state aid, because if we are saving only one industry here, it is said earlier that I have highlighted the hospitality, culture, sport, perhaps we can also think in this direction that it is some kind of unlawful aid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mr. Simon Zajc, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u130	According to my information, the MF has already received information back that it is not illegal state aid, so there is no such fear in this case. All of our actions, efforts are now focused on making FURS apps as soon as possible and making the back system work so that the vouchers will work well without the system crashing down or there are any unwanted voucher machinations.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u131	Thank you very much. He gets the last word in this round, Ambassador Jura Ferrjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u132	Mr Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members and, of course, all those who accompany us are warmly greeted! We have a third crown package ahead of us, namely the Act on Intervention Measures to Eliminate and Eliminate the Consequences of the Covid-19 Epidemic, which, as we know, affects a number of areas. Work, public finances, economies, agriculture, higher education, scholarships, public procurement, infrastructure. Following the expiry of the crown of package number 1 and against the crown of package number 2 by the end of May, I believe that today the package number 3 has taken on this important role of continuing assistance to the Slovenian population and to the Slovenian economy, with important and necessary emphasis on Slovenian tourism, from 1 June to the end of December 2020. In my debate, I think I will touch on the key measures that this law brings. Of course, this is partly subsidisation of short-term full-time work and an extension of the subsidisation of waiting for work. In the initial proposal for tourism and hospitality, I believe that, even after the adoption or adoption of the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups to the 26th Article, and in this measure of extending the subsidised waiting for work for the month of June, we will include all sectors. I will give a few more words to point 3 in my debate, i.e. support for tourism and hospitality. As we know, the central element of this point is a very valuable voucher and, at the outset, I would like to point out here that the value voucher is not a social measure, but is a primary measure that helps, encourages Slovenian tourism and thus serves to improve the economic situation, to increase domestic consumption. It is about promoting local, encouraging domestic, encouraging Slovenian. This voucher will be given to all with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia - those who are 200 euros full-year and those who are not yet full-year, 50 euros. Of course, there is also a possibility of transfer between family members or relatives to another colleague, and this voucher is also not counted as an individual’s income. There are about 60 thousand jobs in Slovenian tourism. So this measure of value voucher brings work to these 60,000 who work in Slovenian tourism. To enable them to work, to create and, of course, also, to give our taxpayers and taxpayers the incentive to make their free time this summer, after, I hope, the numbered crisis of the Coronavirus, which of course we have not yet fully received, but we have received the first battle that this time will be free, dedicated and spent with the family in Slovenia. Our country is beautiful, beautiful and has a lot of good, and I am sure that, like me and my family, we are looking forward to this year's vacation, which we will be able to spend in Slovenia in full – here I speak for myself, of course, on behalf of my family. We liked to go on trips before, and now I am happy to say that we will spend the entire year or summer vacation in Slovenia and thus miss our small part, helping the Slovenian economy or Slovenian tourism. I am sure that this measure will also bring with it a number of other multiplier effects, both on the one hand, to the fact that it will not only be used in the value of this voucher, but that, of course, on our vacation, we will also use some of our own resources, whether in this accommodation, where we will use the voucher, or in any inn, or in the sightseeing of a particular sightseeing or other, it is said, what other activities in this place where we will allow. In short, it is a measure that, I can say, helps in several areas and I am sure that after a few months or in the following year, because the voucher is valid until the end of the year, we can assess and view with some positive level what has been achieved. I am also sure that a number of people who, if they did not get this voucher, would not go on vacation at all this year, or would go on vacation as usual, probably abroad, and will discover the beauty of their own country, and I am sure that they will do it sometime in the years to come. So that this effect, of course, will also reach out in the coming years. In the final part of my debate, I would focus on two more measures, which I think are also very important to point them out at this point, not only from the very beginning of the action, but also from the point of view of all the congregation in our country. The first measure is the exemption of parental payments for kindergartens, i.e. for children who were not in kindergarten from 18 May to 30 June. This law gives the State the legal basis for hiding these funds from the State budget, so that these resources will not burden the individual budget of parents who have their children in kindergarten. I am also pleased that this cost will not cover the municipal budget, but the state budget, because by raising the average in the anti-korona package number 2 this money received by the municipalities actually remains for purpose, i.e. for the so-called investment use by the individual municipality. The second measure is also to raise the maximum amount of possible indebtedness of the municipality from 8% to 10% of the current municipal budget, i.e. by 2 percentage points, for illustration, for example at the 15 million budget, EUR 300,000 of additional credit potential. And in the context of the antikron package number 2, when the averages in the total amount of the Slovenian municipality received 73 million additional funds, this actually means some important, we can also say what strategic manoeuvres of individual municipalities can with certain investments that they have not been able to make in recent years are now or after this crown crisis and thus, of course, raise consumption and stimulate economic growth. Your Honor! It's an anti-Korona package that weighs a billion euros. It is an anti-korona package that continues to help the Slovenian population, the Slovenian economy, Slovenian tourism. Your Honor! It is an exit strategy, it is part of the exit strategy, it is a solution to the consequences of the coronary crisis, and I am sure that this important step that we will take today, together with a large majority of us, to make Slovenia return to the fugitives as soon as possible, and that we will be ready for the upcoming challenges that await us.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see there's still interest. I'm asking you to sign up. Ten people reported. First he gets the word of Ambassador Tadej Shuštar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u134	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the institution of the law, the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Janez Cigler King, they have made great efforts to prepare a third antikron package to help people and the economy. Of all sectors of the economy, tourism has suffered the greatest damage to the economy, so we are helping Slovenian tourism in the form of vouchers to be received by all citizens and citizens, with a full-year value of €200 per year at the rate of €50. Another important measure prepared by the Ministry of Labour to maintain jobs is the co-financing of reduced working hours from 1 June to the end of 2020. The employer will therefore receive a subsidy of EUR 448 from the country. It is important that jobs are kept in order to prevent forgiveness and unemployment as much as possible. I am glad that the increase in unemployment has stopped, and now we are just waiting for the curve to turn down and unemployment to begin to fall. The proposal that we are considering today, of course, I support and am pleased that Minister Janez Cigler the King has made such an effort to harmonise and propose with a view to workers, people and the economy as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Mik Prebil has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of the law, yes, is indeed going in the right direction, but still there are a few things that drive ghosts, things that are inadequate and in all proceedings problematic, and I'm going to be critical of them, and that's about four things. For the first time, that a marriage such as this gives rise to provisions which do not belong to me. For example, Article 2 dispute in the area of construction of buildings and waste, these matters are being extended again. We have already pointed out the contradiction of these provisions in the previous law and we warn and oppose them now and therefore propose deleting this article. Then there's Article 8 here. Since when or by what logic this is reflected in the law on intervention measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of the epidemic. An article that actually intervenes in the constitutional rights of citizens. And this is a measure that, in my opinion, should really be thoughtfully planned and even more prudently useful if it is absolutely necessary and not in any way in the way that it is. However, the government here, with little or no self-criticism or consideration, writes that by the end of the year, the Minister of Health will be able to impose a quarantine without a previous proposal from the NIJS. This is at least, I don't know, inappropriate, but in fact, it is very wrong because this article is controversial from a very many points of view and it would be nice, at least, that, after the end of the epidemic or after three months, you just decided that the Minister of Health would still gain some authority. But once again, it's wrong from quite a few perspectives. Thirdly, there is a lack of clear and effective measures. It is now only a measure of waiting for work for tourism and hospitality that does not refer to other industries. And that's problematic. You know, the possibility of subsidising part-time for employers who do not have jobs is not helpful and is inadequate. And it does not help that, in addition to everything we have or have, it will take quite some time, the government is actually dealing with everyone who thinks otherwise, with the profession, with the media, with the opposition and so on. And that's not the way, you know, that kind of behavior breaks people's trust in institutions, even in this institution, and you can only attribute it to yourself. And it is because there is not enough of these clear measures, which could really help people if we already owe ourselves so much more, that we have to hurry again by adopting measures or laws. Not only this law, but also the previous ones, as we have seen from today to tomorrow, and it shows exactly what we have warned about, is now seen in practice that ideas are poorly defined in the law and therefore measures are ineffective, but above all are short-term. And just as you sang that first mega marriage, you see so well the problems of the world. These eyewitnesses that we have been listening to for some time now, that we do not participate in the opposition, and that people should be grateful for what they get, I mean, I don't know if that even requires an answer, because it's not serious to the extreme. We've already sent you a whole bunch of proposals at PKP1. They were all rejected because they came from the opposition. PKP2 is the same thing, PKP3, we see, the same thing again. And then the Prime Minister still dares to send a letter, now let's fall together. I don't know, well, he takes me in sometimes to push this paper somewhere, but let's just leave it. Just don't think of us as stupid, but think of us as stupid people, citizens, because what you tell people to be happy to get something, you actually spit in your face because it's not your money. It's the money of all of us, of all the people who pay in cash and all the people who pay taxes. Well, and then we get to, what we've experienced on the Labour Committee, the family, the new 67th article, which is actually just an address and a coalition here to vote for this article, goes through, well, then we have the next article, which is the content of this title, and it rejects it. So we have in law, you've legitimized the address without content. And such matters point out that they are rushing and that the meetings are convened in some very late hours throughout the night, so that they can accept something quickly or perhaps something that does not belong to people. Once again, not everything is completely wrong, something small, and not least all of these three laws have been taken into account, but are not ambitious and short-lived. In fact, the fact that you say that you're not involved and that we're just breaking the matter is actually a lie and extremely misleading to the public. You know, it's not all that people get just something to do, but if this panic is created, the crisis is that people don't calm down, that they don't get any hope and look into the future, how they live on, people get scared, they shut themselves down, and what's the consequence of it -- that they start squandering and squandering or reducing consumption, and they just drive into recession, and we've seen it once. And I really think, and here again, I call for different management, we must accelerate the domestic demand for money to turn around and return to the budget. And then we continue to have medium-term objectives, which, together with the EU, we will also have to take into account this European Green Agreement, renewable energy sources, investments in infrastructure, social policies and so on. So I'm actually really sad, but actually I'm a little angry that politics doesn't find this common way to help people, but as we can see, it's only because of one person's policy and one party's policy, and it's a law as it is now that, of course, nothing has been taken into account again, even what has been heard well-intentionally, but it could be used and done to make it easier for people to come to the green branch and because the inside articles are once again that they don't judge, but I can't support the law, I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The word is Jerco Korca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Vice President. Nice greetings to all, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. This law, the so-called third megapacket, has been very much said even at the nightly meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, but it is only right to repeat some things again, because today there is another opportunity for coalition partners to think about some things together once more. First, however, I would respond to a number of repeated misleading data related to how we faced the health crisis. Nevertheless, to say that we are the best in Europe, the best in the world is misleading and is a lie unfortunately. The epidemiological picture according to the data is quite different, which is the number of deaths between the European countries in the 19th place, but if we link this to the substantive aspect of where these deaths occurred, I think that some kind of smugness is inappropriate and completely inappropriate. We will also need to speak more actively about these deaths and about the attitude of our society towards the elderly, as each society shows its image and attitude toward ourselves even in the light of the attitude we have toward the oldest and most vulnerable in our society. According to the number of infections, we're in the 11th place and the death rate is in the 24th place. Just so much about statistics that we won't fall into some kind of security, how we're best and first. The same is true if we move to PKP 1 and PKP 2 with regard to the declarations of how very effective they are and how they achieve their objectives. Unfortunately not. Because these are not my words, these are not my calculations, this is what the Government has also said to the Fiscal world and you know, numbers can be manipulated in these and other ways, but some things are exact. You yourself have estimated three billion, then the stability programme has estimated it to be two billion, the fiscal world has estimated about 1.7 billion, and shows that these effects will be lower and I agree with the fiscal world's record, that simulations also show that the multiplier effects of the measures taken are relatively small. This is a reality, not because the opposition wants to attack you, to tease you, to be a baboline, but I believe that it is in everyone's interest, because we are looking at a few years, not just months, or not just allowing them to continue to have different effects if we want to prevent a rise in unemployment and to mitigate this economic crisis as much as possible. PKP2 does not work, and I think that in a few months when the government, I hope, will also provide some analysis that unfortunately this data will be confirmed and here the appeal is that the government takes a slightly more serious approach to these ambitious goals, but when you find out in the middle of the way that things do not work, it is only necessary to turn quickly and correct what can be done. So much for some facts, if you want. Nevertheless, I would like to commend the Government or the President of the Government in the event that he realized that the way to deal with the crisis in 2009 had failed or failed. On the one hand, Pahor's government was reducing public investment at the time, Janša's government came to ZUJF, and I am pleased that right policy has also found that domestic consumption is the one that at the time of the crisis can alleviate matters and drive the car forward, although they always knew how these leftist socialist dogmas and all those finches that right-wing politicians have made and were busy sweeping the left half of the Slovenian political space, but you have also come to this conclusion, so this is certainly positive. However, the question is how to spend this money that is given to people actually achieves the goal of raising domestic consumption and yes, of course, the country's indebtedness is not at all problematic if it knows why this debt is, for what purpose, and what the ultimate goal is. If we take the example of housing construction as one of the infrastructure projects that the country could undertake and look at the multiplier effects and we are able to see it, then what we quickly find is that housing construction also has an impact on the pension treasury, including demographic trends and everything else, if we are only able to look at one such project more broadly. As you know, when we build an apartment, young people become independent, they have a faster family, they eventually get a faster job, and they realize with their lives that it is possible to earn some euro more, and in this way they fill up the rest of things so that they become more free and innovative, I do not talk about it at all. So sometimes I wish that something was looked at in spite of everything. Now, also at PKP3, I will certainly appreciate the idea of the vouchers, although I think this idea was created on P. Damjan's blog, but it is no matter where the idea came from, it is good that the government recognized it as the right one, that we can help tourism, but we have already seen how it is, but that the end of the matter will be done in practice, how much abuse is already taking place, we also receive serious e-mails also Members, how some will want it anyway, how some will take advantage of it, how offers are different from this, and here the government will be as an executive branch of power, which will be responsible for the implementation of the legal basis that you will confirm, to consider how to prevent abuse, because otherwise we will get back to the problem that, that if any solid idea in practice is carried out, it will not, it will reach its goal, even more, you will achieve the goal of enforcing the goal of having a certain narrow circle of the hotel, because of the fact that you will actually have a lot of making it work, because it is important, that you will not be able to do it, that you will be able to make it, that you will be able to do it, that you will be able to do it again, that you will be able to do it again, because you will be able to do it again, because you will be able to do it. So briefly about some praises that you won't say we're just bollocks. Our amendments in the first, second and third packages show, in real terms, that the opposition's purpose here was not balinian, but you found it yourself later when you actually included some of our amendments when you corrected the first package, but let's leave this aside as a policy or I'll say some of your understandings, because you, when you were in the opposition, were working in a way that you put amendments and also legal proposals that were completely unrealistic. We have set ourselves here, in spite of everything as the opposition, in a different way because we were aware of the situation our country was in. Of course, the matter broke down there when the government introduced things that had nothing to do with these laws. I will not go into the enco and the duo now, but in the troika you have also planted two articles that have absolutely nothing to do with solving the economic situation and even less with the resolution of tourism just the opposite. You know, Article 2 is a typical example of your opposition to yourself, because long-term tourism assistance is not only in money or as Comrade Trček says in money, but also in that Slovenia has green surfaces and that we like to highlight green tourism, sustainable tourism, much of it in strategies is also in words the government introduces articles that work just the opposite. You will have to clear up what you really want and how you imagine things and this article 2 is problematic. Read it again, it is unnecessary, but you are all reminded of it, but you insist for a completely different reason. The same goes for Article 8 completely unnecessary that once again you have cut the profession in this country where you can continue to go and with Article 8 you cut the professional basis on which a politician like the minister can decide something and these matters are unnecessary and it is misleading to say that they have any connection with tourism or hospitality. Now there's one more thing about raising domestic consumption. Yes, it is one thing to give people the means to spend another and, in my opinion, it is also very important that people feel safe, to create some stability, to create a normal climate in the country, because in such situations people are willing to spend more, to invest their funds also these very loud deposits that we have stored for a long time, if we have a feeling that we have before us not the light times, but the dark times, then we will tighten our belt even more, and I will say even more easily, and we are saving even more, and here it is the government's responsibility to finally gather and start to create some stability, some normality and stop causing friction where these frictions are completely unnecessary and are not in place, because we can face ideas, we can have a different view of tax policy and much more, but in some way of creating a normal atmosphere between different civil society and others, and they are not on the ground, because we can face the right of our own development in 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you, fellow Jerzi, for your announcement. Just for the introduction, let's settle a few things. The government is not Miklavž and neither is Santa Claus and we are not Santa Claus in the opposition. If they didn't tell you, if you didn't understand when you were 10 years old, these people don't exist, otherwise there's a bishop named Nikola, from Mitra, where St. Nicholas comes from. Now, colleague Jeraj is on the move. Because that's how you pass it, we'll give it to her, we'll give it to her. You know, it's actually more famous than Ashker's song - where would you take it and where would you put it. Data for the first quarter do not show us exactly pink, but some real data will only come in the second quarter, when we were really, because of the crown, economically locked and will not be overly promising. Whatever the previous Government has, but it has some butter on its head, because it's kind of a bad day, it has me to keep all the party presidents, as well as the coordinators and the sub-coordinator of the left, and even Damir, locked them up for a few months and fed them with donuts, but it still left some, a quarter billion that you wanted for the "adjuvancers" and I don't know what else to spend. Secondly, the National Assembly is a legislative body. There, in the White landscape, as my colleague Peček reminded me, there is in Radovica near Metlika, the primary school of Bistra Buča. All these three laws that come in here, I hope the kids from the Clear Bouquet, the Belokrans, we're pretty bright, more written. Do you know who was watching that meeting that really lasted 20 hours, but you forced the night session and those, artificial or not, of colleague Irgle's tears, the committee has a vice president and two vice-presidents, 20 hours divided by four is five, which is half-time or part-time work. Pika, right, and Evi Irgle didn't go to the door to ring, no press house, and then, now you're John to give sheep's clothing and you'd be working with us. You know, the Prime Minister of the Government is the same person who writes on Twitter, which people now call "Tvito". Tonin and Zdravec, called a bulldozer, said he wouldn't change when he was 60. Well, now, go ahead with the sentence yourself. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Now let's go seriously to the marriage – please don't bother me, I don't – now, one is a good idea that has a purpose, the other is operationalization, the third is realisation. In the meantime, of course, you must also think, limit the possibility of abuse. Now, if you're a good former minister, and now the Secretary of State, Rabbit, has listened, he's already pointed out a little bit about where the problem might be. FURS hasn't been programmed yet. Next, Janša promises cooperation yesterday, on the list of participants by the Government, which is supposed to participate at this point, is written nearly half of the government. Here is Mrs State Secretary, who would be better off dealing with the DSOs, because she was very successful in leading one, and not our former fellow Member, Janez King Cigler, but also our fellow Member Zeko, as we have called him. Now, if Mr Janša is going to take any serious part, then of course he would be here in this marriage. Yeah, what's up, buddy? [[advertising from the hall]] Go check it out. Who wasn't the MP? [[advertising from the hall]] Brickler was not a “expert”, listen carefully, Comrade Zajc was a Member. A bricker is a lapsus. If Janša thought to participate seriously - but he was such a good “expert” that I had already violated him for a Member – if Janša were to think seriously in cooperation, if the ministers were to think seriously in cooperation, I would be sitting here. [[…]] Where are they? Are bikers afraid, probably, right? [[advertising from the hall]] I don't know. Now this, this story, because, my colleagues have already told enough, this story around these sheepdogs is of course a good idea, which is poorly operationalized, how it will be in realisation, and frankly, I am afraid. You know, it kind of reminds me of college vouchers until they're fixed up a little bit. Well, it just so happens that I was a mentor to a student who was an inspector for it, so I pushed him out a little bit. Well, we agreed to write a diploma on it, right, but it seems to me that this is going somehow in this direction. [[…]] [[…]] Definitely can't accept this story of children is half a dog, is a quarter a man or an adult. And it's almost every hotel night or 12-year-old or 12-year-old you're still counting on an adult, isn't it? Of course, now some hotelers are going to hide it, and they're going to put the kid at the expense of an adult. Meira and I both worked in tourism, talked to each other before, and we know what kind of work this is. Then you had a story like we were going to work together. The other part of that fabulous session, and that's, you know, I can't say anything like a noise. Somehow I was able to guess you that even one amendment of the opposition went through and this went to the amendment subtitle of a chapter in the law, which basically thinks only what the tourism strategy of the Republic of Slovenia says – that we are a green cultural destination and so on. The next point, which was actually what it was, you turned it down and voted down. When I drew Mrs Irgle's attention to this, she said, "Yes, I can't lay my hands on the Members' hearts as to how they should vote." That is true, it would be against that article of the Constitution, which I often mention, but the National Assembly should probably be at least as smart as the primary school of the Bistra bucha, and I must visit it, indeed, I have not been there yet to admit. I mean, do you know what you're laughing at? It's about as if we were to bless that we have a motion on the menu, but we don't really know what a movement is. And it's still in the National Assembly, it's breaking the law because it's protected, and it's selling a little bit of a mover. Just like that, by the way, we stick to the laws so everyone will understand. Then I'm reading today, I don't know, before yesterday these DSO statements, and today the DSOs are flying over planes. I don't know. I'd start hitting my head here at the table. Then we have some stories, but you know, exclusive where we should think in-in. That's changing a little bit now. Waiting and shortening working time and combining each other, right? In fact, we thank you for copying our amendment as your own. In some serious capitalism you should be required to do so. In every marriage you shake hands, as Jerco has already said, some subversives, who not only do absolutely not fit there, but are also unconstitutional. There are quite a few articles of the Constitution that talk about a healthy living environment for children, about environmental protection, about the environmental dimension of business, right? And then we're the balinian. At the end of that meeting of the parent working body, after the coalition amendments, i.e. Nomotechnically, accepted, the lady or lady of the Legislative and Legal Service has told you what else is wrong with this law. And if my daughter had listened to it, I would have said, "Daddy, I don't know if you're capable of doing your job." She's a fairly harsh critic. From the fact that certain matters are unconstitutional, to the fact that you want to regulate in another law something from one law to the fact that something is not properly defined, to the fact that the force of John Janša on 1 June is at issue. I don't know, maybe you'll be changing people on the official list for that. These are facts, I'm not making anything up, so stop looking at me like that "so her, what this Runker is telling us now." Now, if I go back to the vouchers. I don't prescribe either a degree or a master's degree or anything else, but I can quote. I'm going to quote my favorite columnist, Mrs. Maja Novak, from today's home. He says: “Consider a worker with a minimum wage, preferably with five children or a recipient of social assistance, or a pensioner, or a nickname, or a Slovenian culturer. In no way can it enter the green branch, barely break through the moon.” And so on. Next: “200 Euros, as much as the voucher will be worth, should be drawn from at least 200 more from its own pocket, in which it does not have them. So he smiles bitterly, waved with his hand, left the Voucher alone to faint from his grief, and even in the middle of the tourist season remained the rupavers on his home farm, because he is already resting from what he knows, “niil nuvuo sub salta”, a colleague knows that because he had Latin in the diocese, he cannot be immersed in cash, and that he would still be so happy, the clothes and school notebooks for a growing child cost, because he cannot pass it on to a wealthier one than himself, for example, the House of Malča Belčev can't afford to go on vacation every other child of the social bottom, “write a failure”, the end of the quote. In short, some good idea that is poorly operationalized and I fear that realisation will also be problematic, they will probably look for some reasons for abuse, I hope that the ICT will not start with a slap together, and that no whistle will tell him how they forced him to sign that this little cousin has to program it. That's a fact. And if a firm wins the tender, justly, because I know that a Member's son is a good computerist, I won't have a problem with that, but if it's not a kleptopathic connection. All the time, you are saying that the wolf is not a social aid or a social measure, but at the same time boast that no one has given it so much, Comrade Pojbič, not even Kordišev Tito, as you will give them to go to sea or to those who otherwise cannot afford it. What's the other one? The Voucher is basically an unfortunate social measure if I take you seriously. You know, and of course also, when you talk to people, it's true, we need some of this helicopter push money, including these crowns one, two are kind of weirdly bureaucratic, in practice not being implemented, here we could follow some slightly brighter noises of democracy that just went into this helicopter and of course said, look, and then we'll be looking at those who want to abuse it. In short, if there's any way I can buy that the first post of the Crown or the Anti-Korona was as unhappy as the law, if I can still buy that you wanted to frame us there, when you thought we were stupid or insulted by our experts and experts, who every one of these pumpkins from the law you bring in in in detail, you're still doing it in the third law, you're putting it all together alive, after all, because this government has a secretary of state who worked in the Law Enforcement. The lady has a doctorate, she also has a nice CV, she has a specialization in America, then you put her on the government, first she's supposed to be the head of the legal service, then you brought the gentleman who was in the arbitration, or now she's advising the Croats, his famous quote is how to hire him and not let go. I don't know if these two people have seen these anticoron three marriages? Now the president of my mother's working body is looking at me a little bit badly, in the end what the Legal and Legal Service said, I'm afraid they're not. We had the same story in that foreign law in a previous term, when you already joined the SDS and the SMC. At that time you hid the lady who ran the government service in essence because she did not give him the green light, but then came back then, I don't know if he was a member of the NSI, but instead of explaining the law to us professionally, he had a "travel instruction". And then we're the balinian. And he's not going after John, who's looking at me. Janez seems to me to be a fine minister in the bull that he fell into, and I hope so, my colleague, until we discover some kittens on the infrastructure. I hope not. I know someone to praise, too. Nor are they obsessed with or dependent on tweeting on Twitter. It seems to me that a third of this government should be sent to some collective therapy for decoupling from Twitter, because that's why we're not paying you. He's got a buddy who's been on NovaTV's first. I know you'd be great at the government's pier, but not the way those tweets work your life out. Your life is running out, and you are going to die, and the second thing you do, as well as life for a lot of experts and experts, which every society that really thinks of itself and in which it has confused quite a bit of money, as Slovenia has confused me, is running out of money with my parents, because you are pushing them away. But I am heartily convinced that now that you are replacing people with SURS you will prove that you are even more successful than North Korea and I will congratulate you on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Moja žnidarič has the floor. Here you go. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Do you have a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u142	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll be very brief. I'm just gonna thank Dr. Duck for being my loyal viewer on Nova24TV. Thank you. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u143	Mrs. Moica Žnidarič, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The key actions against the crown of the package are co-financing of reduced working time and tourist vouchers. I welcome and support both these two measures and others, which are enshrined in these laws. With regard to the subsidy, i.e. for part-time work, I will only say this, explain what I have already received from people. So this subsidy will be applied by the employer at the Employment Office. This subsidy will vary depending on how much the employer reduces the working time for the worker. A reduction is possible, as we have heard, from 5 to a maximum of 20 hours a week. The employer, however, will normally pay the worker’s salary, so he will receive a hundred percent salary for the part of his salary. For those hours that will be on hold, 80% of the salary will be paid. There were quite a few questions about this, and then I wanted to say that. Then let's move on to the vouchers. The vouchers are therefore tourist vouchers intended to promote domestic consumption in the field of tourism. Some say it's about buying voices. Others say they are too low, but in my opinion it is indeed the right solution and indirect assistance to tourism with the help of its own citizens. We will all receive tourist vouchers, as we have heard, so all with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. This permanent residence will be checked on 13 March 2020, adults 200 euros, children 50 euros. They are therefore intended for bed and bed with breakfast. The question often arises, written that there are only nights, but also nights with breakfast. Why such a decision? I think that Mr Zajc, Secretary of State, described very clearly earlier why they decided to do so. As it is said, the bon is not a solidarity aid for people, but it is really about helping tourism and helping 60,000 employees who work in tourism. And that's why it's not cashable, but it needs to be cashed by the end of the year, so by 31. 12. 2020. I would also like to stress that you, as well as all pensioners, will, of course, normally receive the annual leave regress so that the voucher will have no impact on the regression, not on social transfers. The vouchers will also not be taxed and the vouchers should not affect the different prices of tourist operators, as in fact the providers will receive the value of the FURS vouchers paid within 7 days, so indeed any handling of these vouchers is unacceptable and I believe that the citizens of such tourist operators will be excluded from their choice. I also propose that any manipulations be regulated or prevented in the regulation being drawn up. Since some on the Labour Committee have also mentioned transport costs and other leave costs, I would like to remind vulnerable groups, for example pensioners, disabled persons, including war veterans last year, by law, we have allowed free public line transport, so that for these vulnerable groups this cost is then eliminated. If a bona does not want or can't take advantage of it, then it can be given to relatives in a row of up to two relative knees, i.e. parents, old parents, children, grandchildren, this is a good solution so that as many of these vouchers will be cashed out as possible and this will help tourism as much as possible. The purpose, therefore, is to spend the vouchers at home in Slovenia. I would also say that the vouchers are not only renewable in hotels, as has been pointed out many times, especially in the Committee, but also in camps, holiday homes and, above all, not to forget tourist farms and similar things. In Slovenia we have many less famous pearls, where you will be able to take your voucher or stay longer and also take priceless adventures from there, by inviting you all over Slovenia, not only to the most famous tourist destinations. Maybe another word for the amendment given by the LMSH, which they want to raise the value of the voucher. On the one hand, this surprises me, because the opposition has always denied that they spend too much in the government or in the government or in the coalition, they owe the citizens too much, so this, this amendment is really not normal. If I touch on a few other measures, really briefly, I also very much welcome this measure of extension or the addition by the end of June of compensation for pending workers. I believe that we will all join together in supporting the coalition's amendment, so that all employers will have this opportunity to extend the waiting period to 30. 6. I would also like to remind you of some measures in the field of agriculture, such as easier plantation, easier use of geothermal water, free purchase of cultivated land. Measures to help the wine sector, which has also given very much warning and in fact also suffered a lot of damage, then social protection measures, I also welcome, i.e. assistance to providers of home aid, i.e. to cover 80% of the costs of unscheduled services, then, given how long I have also worked with disabled people, I also very much welcome the increase in the subsidy for the employment of disabled persons in disabled companies and employment centres, including the values for unscheduled sports events, and then added a supplement to the threat and specific burden for civil protection members, volunteers and firefighters. Up to 30. 6. there is also the possibility of exemption for those parents who have children at home, i.e. up to 30. 6. This measure also applies. I also welcome the measure allowing municipalities a slightly higher debt, since this allows them access to a greater investment potential, which will, of course, facilitate exits from the economic crisis. I have also observed in the transitional provisions that partly self-employed persons, due to the exercise of parental protection rights after a new or rectification, receive this monthly basic income in full and no longer in proportional work, as set out in the new CAP 1. So there are some very good corrections and these two, so the key actions I have mentioned, so of course I will be happy to support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Leon Merjasec has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u146	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. Hello, Minister and representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Nicely greeted. The CAP 3 Act, which we are considering today and I hope that we will adopt it, lays down temporary measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of the epidemic. In addition to all the measures presented, let me mention seasonal work in agriculture, which allows for the extension of seasonal seasonal work permits in agriculture and forestry for a maximum of 150 days. This measure enables the labour force which is lacking in Slovenia. Measures in the field of irrigation, geothermal energy exploitation in greenhouses and the establishment of crops for agricultural production are a measure to facilitate food production and write-off on less fertile soils and to reduce the remuneration for building rights, to reduce prices for agricultural land purchases in the management of the farm and forest land fund by 20 per cent. Free lease of farmed land owned by the Republic of Slovenia for a lease period of 10 years and must be used for agricultural activity. These are all incentives for agriculture to increase self-sustainment. The measure, which provides for the possibility of direct surrender of the game seized, means that the hunting families or special-purpose hunting grounds of their wild game collection may sell up to 50 per cent of the planned annual collection to the final consumer of each species of game or to the retail sale facilities in accordance with the annual plans of the hunting management areas designated for a specific species of game in the hunting organisations. This measure alleviates the problems of the purchase of game, as it was largely cancelled during the epidemic. It's mostly a wild boar heist. We know that the swine fever is approaching, and when the plague is present, self-sustainment in the production of pigs will fall, so all these measures, the procedures for allocating funds and incentives must lead quickly, with as little costs as possible, and with as little delay as possible for the parties and other participants in the process. That's why I support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm listening to the debate, but sometimes I don't really understand it very well. I hear a client of LMŠ who's picking up the government's attitude towards the oldest. The LMŠ party, which was in the government, at which time we learned that 72 million were dedicated to building research and preparing a home for the elderly, and no one was built. I'm listening to the same party that says, "The government is in a hurry, so the measures are coming too slowly." Listen to the magnetogram. I don't know if all the members have found a sense of humor for their president. I'm listening to Party Left. Seven of them are from 90 Members. They are fighting the limitation of democracy, with 13 hours of debate on the committee speaking from 17 hours. And that's not limiting democracy, is it? I'm listening to SD. The new president, who, Mrs. Fajon, is calling for a connection, but not with the SDS. What's this connection? The MEP talks about possible misuses of vouchers, how people will abuse all vouchers, tourist vouchers, but their president is new, and Mrs Tanja Fajon says that only responsible citizens have successfully solved the great COVID crisis and that is why we are the best in overcoming the crisis. Look, understand who's got it. And, of course, it is not true what the Member of the Left said. He made the mistake of being quarantined for only 50 percent of his salary. Look, the man in quarantine is sick and has a hospital. I welcome the financing of part-time work in this law. This will help the individual, the worker, and the economy. Tourist vouchers are one of the better things, why? This is a measure to promote tourism, which is a temporary measure, but this measure will also be an opportunity and is also a strategic measure for the future of Slovenia. Here is an opportunity for boutique tourism, which Slovenia deserves, for congress tourism and cultural tourism. When Plečnik's entry into Unesco's heritage is being prepared, this is indeed a suitable destination for tourists, when our country will, of course, be open to several countries, for more tourists. But we also have many other beautiful cultural heritage. Together with other laws that we have discussed today, and also earlier, this law will allow for the building of sports, cultural capacities. I imagine many recreational areas as well as cycling paths that will connect the region, many young and old, whole families that will live so healthyly. Foreign tourists, however, have been allowed to travel on a sustainable basis. I am pleased, therefore, that all investments in the development strategy of Slovenia will not only be temporary start-up measures but will, of course, also grow into a real development strategy. I'm happy with those tourist vouchers. I know a young family who can barely get together because of a few days’ leave of absence, this time they will be able to spend more than 10 days maybe even 14 days. I know a young family who builds a house and can't afford a vacation this time, it'll be easy because of tourist vouchers. At home we will buy bicycles to help the economy and spend savings for this and, of course, also so that we can learn about Ljubljana’s beauty of municipal and natural beauty. In combination with the laws for the start-up of the economy, social measures will help bring about a rapid recovery of prosperity, and I believe that 2021 will be better than 2020 in any way and better than 2019 and 2018 and in the past years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Michael Prevc has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Here we have before us the proposal of the Law on Intervention Measures to Eliminate and Eliminate the Consequences of the Epidemic already third in line, and this third package is intended primarily for the assistance of tourism, but as we have listened to in the opening speech of the Minister, which was very well presented, in fact, with financial assistance, touching all citizens. In fact, there has been so much talk in this debate today and it is difficult to add anything new, but I would point out, or in the eyes, there will be three measures that have a major impact on our people and, of course, on the quality of life of our people. In the first place, I think it is an extremely important measure, which is to subsidise the shortening of working time. Thus, for any worker who is unable to provide a full-time job with a salary subsidy of between 5 and 20 hours, it seems to me that this is an extremely important measure and a measure that is still in place. Of course, the second measure, namely, to extend the already in force waiting subsidy measure, which was originally intended only for the tourism and hospitality sectors, of course, by the amendment we have today on the table, the coalition amendments, but of course, it also extends to the other sectors, so that, in fact, all employers in the Republic of Slovenia, who will be forced to send workers on hold because of the crisis, of course, will be able to make any further use of this measure. I am pleased that the Minister has succeeded in the government with this amendment, and if so, I will be very happy to support this amendment today. It is to all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia that the law offers, it is said, to every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, the law offers a so-called tourist voucher. As we know, for all full-year citizens of 200 euros and less than 50 euros, it will only be possible to use them to pay for bed and breakfast in accommodation in Slovenia. Look, I'm sure these three measures, just these three measures, although, of course, there are even more of them in the law, bring them, I'll say, in this third package, extraordinary support for the population, the economy and the labour market, for the period after 31 May, when the epidemic is over. I listened to the minister, who, among other things, said this - and this data is very important to me – that with the first and second aid packages, we helped 1.3 million people in Slovenia, and with this third, we will help everyone. I think that's very important. See, it is difficult to understand, because it is difficult to understand, because it is a matter of assistance to the whole population, why some Members of Parliament are so vehemently and without any substantial reason, you are opposed to these measures, which in fact only improve the quality of life of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Here in Parliament I represent the people of the beautiful Sevska and Poljanska Valley, who express great gratitude to our Government. First of all, because of the excellent fight against a dangerous disease and, of course, then, also because of everyone, the gratitude is expressed also, of course, because of all the financial assistance received by such farmers, both workers and students and so on. Look, there's a lot in this room today about so-called tourist vouchers, about handling these vouchers, about the danger of abuse. I still believe in the rule of law, and I still believe that, in this case, the market inspection will be the one that, of course, will ensure that these tourist vouchers are not misused or that potential providers who will use abuse will also be properly sanctioned. But I am sure that these tourist vouchers will be ours - today of course there has been a lot of talk – to allow all Slovenians to finally get to know and visit those hidden corners of our beautiful Slovenia, from the high mountains, Alpine valleys, to the beautiful Premur plains, including the Adriatic Sea, of course, with these tourist vouchers we will be able to visit. So, look, I will be happy to support, of course, the amendment that I have already discussed and then this law, which in fact brings financial assistance to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! Today I am listening to this National Assembly, not only today, what is wrong, what has not been done, but look, the fact is that the world and the European Union recognises that we are one of the best countries to deal with this epidemic and I am truly sad that we are not all proud of it. Instead of being here today, I'd say we're proud of each other because we did it together, I'm just listening to what's wrong, what hasn't been done, how the government has also seen the short duration of government action and I don't know what else. But as has been said many times today, the first two packages have covered a million 300,000 citizens, and this will touch everyone. And if this isn't our joint success, I can't imagine any success. This is as successful as Prevc, who won the gold medal, and who jumped up and down. That's such a success. And unfortunately, I can say, the former Government or colleagues who have been in the former government is easy, because this is not just our success, because this is a joint success, because we all carry in the same little money. It's a total success. Social policy depends on a strong economy and I want and I expect that we will all work together for a strong economy, because then we will be able to ensure social policy. People feel, you know, they care. Days ago, I had the opportunity for a lady who celebrated 101 years ago to tell me that she had not experienced such a thing in her life, that she had received an allowance for her pension. Then you know what a hundred-year-old's pension is. And instead of looking forward and saying, we did something, it's all wrong. The easiest thing to do is to say that we're deceiving it too slowly and there's no democracy. You know what hurts the most? It's said that there's no democracy, that there's been some kind of coup d'etat. I really don't know if we all live in this country or not. Did we all live in this country? What kind of coup? Indeed, a man comes sad, even sitting here in the same spaces to work together and then you hear what was happening under the cover of a blacksmith in Slovenia that was not happening in Spain or in France I don't know instead of here river, thank the health staff who were able to prevent and experts as catastrophic as we have witnessed in the past. [[…]] I've been listening to what's wrong today, too, but look, it was mentioned, homes for the elderly. Last time I was hurt, one of them said the genocide was done. We're not a normal country anymore. The words were used only to hurt someone, to totally humiliate them in 2020, when they should all be full of enthusiasm to have their own country. What kind of genocide? Many people still live in this Slovenia, which knows something else about genocide after 1945. 90% of the homes for the elderly had no infections. Is that a success or is that not a success? Is this an international success or is this not an international success? Is it a success that people who, immediately after the crisis after the outbreak, told them that they would go to the employment agency? Wasn't it a success that the government allowed them not to be registered as unemployed, but that they had the opportunity to wait for work at home. It's a success for me. You may not have had one in your immediate family who could endure this hardship, but you do not know that it was a success. That was a success. It is also a success that the measures are being extended to reduce working time until 31 December. That's a success, too. And it is a success and I am proud that Janez Cigler the King of New Slovenia has been able to do so and I believe that he will also do in the future that there will be greater coordination of family and professional life. That some work can also be done to mothers from home so that they do not have to come to Ljubljana. All of this will bring about this crisis. And I believe that our Minister, Janez Cigler the King, will put this into law in the future, because I have already warned myself many times that entrepreneurs, economists of some encouragement, some clues about what young people need, so that they can create families so that they can reconcile their professional and family life. I'm an advocate of this, regardless of the number of children. It's the right thing to do. Various associations also point to this. This is also recalled by the Parliamentary Club. Many times we have these discussions in the Parliamentary Club and also the Association of Managers. This is the only way we will be able to get women to leadership positions in society, in public institutions, in economic societies, and we will be able to coordinate our professional and family life. This is the future of Slovenia. And I hope we all have this goal. And, of course, what I think has been extremely abused. Tickets to improve the tourism situation. It was told what they'd do to you, bed and breakfast. Many do not have the opportunity to pay for lunch or food after benefiting from it. I can say that you haven't all read the bill, because if you did, you could tell people in Article 37. That this can be used in all those who have a registered activity. Of course, the activities of hotels and other similar accommodation facilities, holiday homes and resorts, tourist farms with rooms, private rooms for guests, mountain houses and youth hostels, other accommodations for shorter periods, the activity of campsites and camps. Practically covers the whole, allowing for some holiday activity and, of course, the rest of the family. And I hope that people will take advantage of it. I look forward to this year's vacations being a little different than they were. And that's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The word is from Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u154	Your Honor, thank you for your word. And I will also touch on French history, as was previously done by the Minister of Labour, Mr. Cigler King, when he was quoting Napoleon's sayings. And I will dare, and I will declare, and I will quote Ludvik XIV, who said, "Country, this is me." I'll tell you why. The problem with this government is that this government is the only one and only Janez Janša. And in fact, when you listen to him, he claims quite often that the profession and the state is me, because he's essentially the chief epidemiologist, the chief infectologist, is the Minister of Health, he's the Minister of Defence, he's the Minister of Agriculture. In order not to appear to be a pure absolutist, it is only allowed to be Minister of Economy Zdravko Janša. And then I'll get back to the French history and the other saying by Mary Antoinette: If they don't have bread, they should just eat the sweat. But I will say, I will paraphrase: If they have nothing to eat, let them go to sea with a tourist sheep. I'll tell you why. I'm in the field every day among people who are experiencing terrible social distress. And when we talk about these sheepdogs, the problem is the same, because Mrs Dimic said very well before why it could be used or why it should be used. These people, not only can't afford the sea, these people can barely pay their bills, but they can buy something special at the store, so in fact, these 200 euros would be useful for each of these people to get them as an opportunity to buy in a store or anything else, maybe even to pay an account. And here's where it goes. Mr. Janez Janša likes to be presented as a savior, as a certain saint, to be [[?]] Even as a health saint or a health advocate, but always forget to say that in essence, for human health and also for nature's health, there is little fighting for it, as it also unconsciously allows destruction and interference in nature, and of course they also express themselves in the fact that people's health is deteriorating, diseases are emerging, and that what we should be taught by this Coronavirus epidemic, which we just hope, I hope, I hope, survive, and I hope that it will never come back again, I really do, and this matter has taught us exactly what Mr Janša vs. advocates. Because Mr Janša constantly advocates capital in front of man, nature and animals. In fact, the time and the moment has come at which, in fact, it is the right time for nature, for man, for animals before capital. And the fact is, in fact, we only have this planet A that's been mentioned so many times. And those who take very good care of him and actually take good care of him will also be able to paraphrase the Scriptural matter for centuries. But if he doesn't do it or do it, unfortunately, we all have to be aware of it very well, the only thing that's really going to happen is planet B. And that's not what I think anyone wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Yeah, I don't know. Have you discussed it yet? Okay, I was gonna ask if anyone else wanted to discuss it. I can see that and I'm asking you to sign up. Seven candidates have been reported. The first one gets the word "Anja Bah Žibert." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u156	Thank you so much for the president's word. If you've listened to the predecessor carefully, then we can be sure that he's lost in space and time together. The fact is that we are living in the democratic Republic of Slovenia, which has a government elected by the Government and that we are acting in accordance with all democratic standards. Everything else is an ugly deception and, of course, in some way, I have been listening lately in this National Assembly already to real violence against other thinkers. Violence that I believe has not been committed in the history of this House by the opposition. And I've been quiet for a while, and I've been listening to this, and now it's slow enough. Now that's enough. Because I don't think anyone in this country wants anarchy in this country except a handful of individuals out there on the far left. And I hope you know what anarchy is after. As far as individual debates are concerned. Actually, you don't know if you'd like to have fun with it, but the sooner you have fun, the sooner you're sad. I'm listening to the so-called opposition now for the last few meetings and it looks like these people wouldn't have run this country two months ago. It's like they actually fell from one other planet to the planet Earth. They're talking about what this government should have done, what this government hasn't done, and I'm seriously asking them what they've done in two years, what they've done in two years? We had a record short meeting of the National Assembly, a record short of initiatives, no ideas, no proposals, and this was done by the Government at a time when there was no crisis, when it had many opportunities to take any step forward and we were given stagnation or even setbacks. This was the government until the arrival of the government of Janez Janša, and this is now a good two months in position and today we are considering the third anti-korona package. Before I touch this third anti-korona package, however, there is something else to say about what is happening today by the LMŠ, which led the former Government, we are hearing that I do not know what terror has taken place over the elderly in nursing homes. 90% of the homes for the elderly in Slovenia did not have any cases of infection, but they were in these homes. Let's ask ourselves why the first infection occurred in Metlika. Not because a caregiver would get sick there, but because the infection was carried out from the inside by a man who was employed there. What happened to this man when he returned from skiing in Italy? Under the Government of LMŠ he was told to go to his post, under the Government of LMŠ under the Sharčeva Government, he was told to go to work. He went to work, and then what happened happened. What happened in Shmari near Jelshah? The school didn't close in time, why? Because of the LMSH government. The minister even threatened, then the mayor, when he decided to close the school and there the infection spread and came to a home for older citizens. So much for who's responsible for having infections in our nursing homes. I really have a lot of this seduction and laying responsibility on those who did, then resolved. Saving literally overnight, saving empty warehouses. The doctors were crying because they didn't know what they were going to give the next day as a protection against infection. You left empty warehouses. So much for the two-year rule of LMSH and the one who threw the rifle into the corn, but Damir [[?]] He didn't know how to do it. This is his story and the piano has ended, but not because of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because of yourself, because of your incompetence. Now let the government work and do not work and do not disturb people by being in some extraordinary situation that is not. The only difficult situation was because of a disease that was not limited to Slovenia, but even more. In fact, Slovenia avoided the worst by good measures in such a way that what happened in neighbouring Italy did not happen. This has brought good and effective measures to both the Government and to all employees, especially citizens and citizens. Those citizens and citizens who were wearing masks until yesterday, even though they were already thrown in the air after the National Assembly. The citizens and the citizens and they are particularly grateful. Now there's something else about the package itself. Package 1 and package 2 helped around a million 300,000 citizens and citizens. Tell me what action you have taken so far is you, who have been in power for most of the time, when you have adopted such a circle of citizens and citizens. You've been throwing money into banks without taking any action to determine who's responsible for the situation in these banks, but it's only inside that money. Here, a million 300,000 people have already received help from the first and second packages. We're already at package three today. In the third package, where it actually gets something back from this country in some way every citizen and citizen. Anyone who has permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. And that with a so-called value card. When did you take such a measure for citizens and citizens? No, it's not. It wasn't. And today, of course, that is. And it is very important that it is not actually a social measure at all, but it is an economic aid. In particular, tourism, which can thus preserve some 60,000 jobs. On the other hand, of course, citizens and citizens will also have some of this because many will be able to go on vacation now, even though they may not have been able to afford it for years. This time it may or may not be. What else does this package bring? Subsidy of part-time work, partial payback for waiting for work. All of this to the benefit of not raising unemployment. To keep jobs. It also helps the congregations, it can be partly indebted, and, of course, it will be devoted to urgently needed projects. We helped the municipalities in the previous package by raising their average, what we said when we were in the opposition, that we would do. And today the mayors are very happy to think about where the infrastructure projects are going to spend this money. Waiting for kindergarten or, if I say otherwise, those who don't take advantage of kindergarten this month won't have to pay for it. Similarly, the solution is for homes for the elderly. In short, a lot of benefits and aid exclusively for citizens and citizens. That is why I will conclude here, and I do hope that we have concluded in this National Assembly with various profanities, with various untruths, the humiliation of all those who come from this political corner and that we will finally start working. But I wish we were together. And when I listen to you that someone doesn't listen to something, tell me in two years what you've accepted from the opposition? One thing you've accepted by the opposition is you can't account for. And we offer you a hand, unlike you. It's a hand-in-hand. And I hope that you will not seek excuses in this, but that you will join in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The word is Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u158	Yes, thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear representatives and representatives of the Government, colleagues, colleagues, all together a nice greeting. About an hour ago, an LMŠ Member said that we were delaying these economic measures for two months. Let's see where we were two months ago. It was 29 March 2020, 14 days after the outbreak declared in Slovenia. So 14 days after some ex-president of the government decided to throw a rifle into the corn instead of working seriously. And only if we look at the measures listed in the sections in this law alone, we see that only in this law are three times more solutions than the previous very similar coalition has brought them together in 18 months. To illustrate further, in the 75 days of the ruling of this coalition, only within the National Assembly were three so - called regular laws passed, in addition to several regular laws. anti-Korona laws. Some 18 months ago, however, events took place: 15-minute government meetings together with a photo deadline outside the government hall, two or three-day meetings of the National Assembly, and in the meantime one big nothing. So the difference is obvious. Some work and others dreamt about how to win 46 votes, and for 18 months they calculated that 42 is less than the necessary 46 for as much as a serious majority. And that is why I believe that today the anger of all those on the opposition side is quite clear. And as one economist told me last time, he said, "Tomáž don't worry, even if we promised all Slovenes and Slovenes one gold wand, they would be just as dissatisfied." If they were promised two golden sticks, they would be dissatisfied because they would never be satisfied for one reason — because they are no longer in power because they are still searching for a rifle and counting votes in their extremes. And this coalition adopted more opposition amendments in 75 than the previous coalition in 18 months. Despite the fact that a large part of this coalition is a radical lion, we have adopted several amendments from the SAB and SNS Members who can make good proposals in their normal functioning, which we are seriously studying and which we are also adopting here. In short, the difference in way of ruling is enormous. And of course, once again, extremists are angry because they are in pain that there are such good measures and that there are so many. In addition, we intervene in these laws to resolve matters that the previous ministers of the previous coalition could not solve within 18 months. Yes, respectable, individual measures in the field of packaging, construction, infrastructure are essential both because of the epidemic that is going on in Slovenia, even because this epidemic would still-
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u159	Dear fellow Member, I apologize. I ask Members and Members of the SD to respect the Rules of Procedure and not to disturb the speaker when he speaks. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u160	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Because in these intervention laws we are addressing intervention needs, which may not be affected by the epidemic 100%, but the epidemic is prolonging them. Just take a look. I think we've been dealing with waste packaging for at least the last five years. When they showed pictures of what could happen to us a few years ago, just as it did in Italy, in southern Italy, we settled matters in an intervention law for a year and a half. What would that look like in the previous composition of the previous coalition? As one fellow Member said before in another marriage, every three months a new meeting and at each meeting it would be as if they were together for the first time. And here to the silent minister one with the help of other ministers solves all matters. And members of the "need to help" version today have problems because this government is helping. And they are always looking for new and new explanations why the measures are not good. Suddenly, they are afraid of state finances, and in the past they had no control over state finances. And no explanation by government representatives satisfies them. They are not satisfied that we will receive European funds from the European Commission, nor are they satisfied that we will say that we will accelerate the use of European funds, which are at this moment devastating, but I believe that colleague Montenegro will be successful here. We have a problem because we are stuck in emergency situations, they have a problem, because in the budget we are going to redistribute funds that we didn't even know existed and were wasted, and this coalition is going to use them for specific projects. This is also one of the problems of the current opposition — that this government, with the help of these three laws, is probably giving another one to the people. Because it gives people a name, a last name, and not money somewhere where it's lost in time and space. Where exactly do you know, students, people with disabilities, not that they're not. In this law alone, we have two sides, by the names of the listed beneficiaries who will receive something because of this epidemic and when I listen to individual representatives of the opposition, I have a feeling that Janez Janša created the crown of the virus. That it is probably also responsible for the epidemic in America, Switzerland, Spain, Italy, now that the dictatorship of John Janša is moving to Brazil, it is likely that it will soon come to Africa and this terrible virus, Janez Janša will settle somewhere else, only in the minds of the left-wing extremists has not yet arrived. As it is said, the two sides, after the indents, written positive, correct and, above all, concrete results, in the PKP3 alone, are still not satisfied, because, as I have said and will conclude, we would never be satisfied, even if we give them not only one or two gold sticks, even if we give them a third gold stick, but a dollar and a euro, we would not be pleased, because we would always find new, new reasons, which is not good, why it is not good and how it is not good. And since we rarely hear praise in this National Assembly, because of one other matter, an hour ago, I will thank the President of the Government and, above all, all ministers and secretary of state, with their advisers and cabinet members, for 75 days a very, very serious and specific day. In the 75 days they did more — and I will dare say it — than the previous three governments together.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go. [[talking to each other]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Koprivc, you haven't discussed it and you can't have a replica. Here you go, Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Minister, and hello to all other colleagues and colleagues. The bill, the so-called third crown of the package, is, despite the fact that we have been listening all the time to the deception of some members of the opposition, a very good package of measures that continue to help both the economy and the citizens. In addition to those measures, which have already been mentioned several times today, from employment-preservation subsidies to vouchers, I would like to point out some other measures, which will certainly be of great assistance, which may not have been sufficiently exposed. I believe that the important emphasis on the valuable vouchers that will be given to many Slovenia, Slovenia and Slovenian families is to take them on holidays that we would not otherwise have this year, but it is also important for our citizens and citizens that the adjustment of the municipalities' debt in the absence of budgetary revenues is also important, as this will enable them to make investments that they have drawn up and are also intended for citizens and citizens, and to improve their lives in local communities. Moreover, more resources will remain in the municipal budgets by repaying funds to municipalities in the amount of the exemption from payment of parents for kindergartens and by allowing them to be diverted to social transfers. Now, I would like to point out that this pact also helps sports companies that have already sold tickets for larger events and have therefore already received funding from tenders. In such cases, unscheduled events will be considered to have taken place if the holder is issued with a value of the ticket payment. The third package also does not forget either members of civil protection or citizens who have been called upon to carry out tasks to combat the COVID-19 epidemic. These are eligible for an additional risk and specific burden at the time of the epidemic of EUR 30 per day. It is also important for the economy to simplify procedures in both plant and irrigation systems, and at the same time, as we have already said, greater investments can be made. I would also like to point out the debt here, because it is often evident that the state, on the one hand, is saying that the state is over-indebted and, on the other hand, we would like to devote even more. It doesn't work together. This is contradictory and at this point you will have to decide whether you will go to one side or the other side, colleagues and colleagues from the opposition. At the same time, I would also like to draw attention to environmental organisations that you mention so many times that they are important. Yes, of course, those with a larger number are not those with only four members. I don't know what kind of environmental organisation it is, especially if you attribute to it that it's in the public interest. I think that's obviously part of the private interest. Then I would also like to warn people from the economy and people who work in homes for the elderly. People in the economy have asked me to inform my opposition colleagues once again that the economic measures have been very helpful in helping them to recover and overcome the crisis that has arisen at the expense of the cavid epidemic. In the homes of the pensioners, I was asked to tell them how difficult it was for them at the time when the supplies were empty, they were gone, and they needed equipment bloodyly, and how this government had made sure that they had access to the equipment. And it's not fair, I come from Nova Gorica alone, where we also have a home of pensioners and it's not fair that all homes are thrown into one basket, what the minister at the previous meeting said and pointed out, the houses were doing well, in a few cases we can't report. Finally, I would like to point out that if mayors in local communities were like some MPs at the time of the epidemic and joined cycling, if mayors in local communities did so, believe me, today would not be the picture they are. You are so grateful that citizens and citizens have taken action well. Of course they did, because they had a good example. A good example of those who were led in government and in mayors and those who are led by them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Joseph Lenart has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u164	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I'm a lovely welcome to the guests, my respectable colleagues and my colleagues! The last CAP3 is therefore an incentive for people, tourism, and then, of course, industry and all other economies. In a way, it just has to start. In the mind, the cash flow is kind of accelerating, which has stopped a little bit because of the crown, and I think that these receptions that have been made so far have been caught up and already show results. Of course, someone would have made a different decision, this government had to make some sort of decision, draw the best possible decision, and it also included the expertise and opinion of people, I will say, citizens and voters, that in some way it will also help people to that extent, so that not so many people will lose their jobs. Of course, the Minister has made good suggestions, I will say, to greet the others we have, say, these vouchers for the holiday, that I do not talk about everything that people will actually be happy with, they are already happy because they will be able to afford a good holiday for this. Of course, something will have to be added on its own and from this will then come this multiplier effect, which we have been talking about and has also been so intended. Of course, it would not be possible to achieve this if we could get everything for these vouchers, a thousand different services, and then a thousand different articles, and some goods. It is only normal that not all proposals can be put into this package, but they were, of course, also, I will say, from the opposition any proposals close to being adopted. If I say this coalition didn't have a hearing for these suggestions, I don't think it's entirely true. Perhaps all those who are quite cyclists would spend a lot of time on this focus by cycling could come up with better proposals together, if we were to focus more on our mission. Then also around the treatment on the working body, 18 hours. Now my colleague from the SAB is going to agree, which somehow, I'm going to say, almost lose his nerve because someone's talking for 18 hours, and then he says there was no delay, that there was no matter in there that would have been processed within 9 hours. [[…]] We had a marathon session for 18 hours, and among these people, Mr Kordiš, Member of the Left, discussed for about 6 hours, if I say so on my finger and then included various materials that had absolutely no connection to the topic. We will try to ensure that all citizens and also left-wing voters do not become impoverished with this package. And it's clear, the government is working, we're working, so maybe someone's just going in their noses, and we're just going to take these measures, and I'm going to say, as soon as we get back to the pre-Korona state. Those who now point out that there will be no disaster in terms of unemployment, and this is already calming down. We also know that some of the people who went to the employment agency were deliberately sent there. People promised them they'd take them back to work, but then you can show them all together in one way or another if you want to be negative and just criticize. Then that's it. Now I may read one publication on the social network, but one person from my parts, which, in my opinion, is valid, this citizen, R. is his name, for a more left-hand liberal, if I put it that way, is a professor, and writes: Unfortunately from the Left, that they do not accept the recognition of citizens that people do not always want the same and the same in one place. So, on the government. But let's see what other people can do for people." And then not to mention his entire publication: “I see no reason to panic people, because the coalition is not made up and decided by only one party and one person. And they're not all shit. If some coalition parties voted or were in previous government coalitions, there was no such pump. I do not understand that a handful of sentient left-wing sloths can be expected of good workers or citizens of Slovenia. It's really sad. When it's over for the quiet workers, we'll have to show the working people what we want to show left-wing people.» But I say, to my left, a more liberal citizen. So, end of quote. There's no left, no right. There are actually measures that drive the country and drag it back down the hill from this crisis. If possible, I'll define myself to some of the readings. There's something else you could do. I will also say the profession some economists speak, which are more modern about the fact that receipts are good. Then, if we go back to the government, in which I will say we are also somehow these coalition parties in it or this is our government. It includes both liberals and Democrats, and Christian Democrats are all working for the benefit of our citizens. Of course, we are for a working Slovenian who will succeed with our support and will by no means be poor. So let us do it again and admit that we are not doing so badly. We'll be doing this for the best if anyone helps us, but we can do great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Janez Moškrič has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, all present and well-respected public! In front of us is a new law introduced by a rapid procedure that contains intervention measures of existing Slovenian legislation or foresees new legislative solutions that have not yet been experienced in the history of independent Slovenia. Of course, we also did not experience in a democratic Slovenia to stop public life and not just public life because of public health. The state has even banned a free enterprise initiative one of the main gains of democratic gain. It's limited even a part of human rights, I'd say unheard of. Such a clear and predictable measure, either in exceptional or in wartime condition. The undeniable fact that Slovenia, as a state of power and a nation of people, has responded well and effectively to the spread of the most deadly virus, as seen in modern society. I am very pleased with this success, and we are all deserving of this success, who have taken into account the conclusions of the 14th Slovenian Government under the leadership of Janez Janša and the expert teams of the medical profession. We are aware of this by all the supporters of this Government, and this recognises the whole world around us, and because as a Member I have supported all the measures so far, I am prouder. It was immediately clear to this Government that this is not only a problem of health personnel, but an integral problem of the existence of a society, a country, so there is a third crown of law before us which contains a set of solutions so that our society does not slip away from the standards of existence itself and just preservation. It must be said that in such a short period of time within 75 days, from which this Government works and is responsible for its citizens and for everything. The law is the continuation of two laws that have already largely fulfilled their purpose. Despite the opposition's great criticism that catastrophic, incomplete, even unconstitutional. We are in the days when life returns to the rails of a regulated society, where economic democracy and freedom are in place, the sectors that we have forbidden to operate are being relaunched. You know, I have to say a statement from a inn in my district that somehow commented on the time when he wasn't allowed to operate. First, he said he was grateful to this government that he could benefit from the right to wait at home for his employees. First of all, he took some time off, but when possible, he extended his offer to delivery, and most importantly, the inn survived two world wars and also nationalisation, and this crisis will be the real one, which I am most pleased with. Why am I saying this? Because, as a coalition Member, I believe in the 14th Slovenian Government and the measures proposed by this Government have been supplemented by parliamentary groups and confirmed by the National Assembly. The measures taken by this law will also be successful. You see the interestingness. ♪ Just like they are ♪ ♪ And they still have to ♪ [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u167	Once again, I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. Can I have a moment, please? Please respect the Rules of Procedure and do not disturb the speaker when he speaks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Chairman. And you see the interestingness that they are and the measures they need to instill in the spread of the virus are carried out by citizens on a case-by-case basis, and it is also the responsibility of each individual in this law. This law also stipulates that citizens, taxpayers, help to save Slovenian tourism. And we'll have that, and we'll have a good memory of it. That's why I'm saddened by political fiendishness. The claim that EUR 200 per person and EUR 50 per child is an unusable amount. In our family, we have spent about 500 euros a year on shorter holidays in Slovenia. And that's the amount we're going to spend right now. Yeah, I know how to hurt. That's the amount of a four-year-old family, the oldest one's a full-year-old, and she's gonna spend it herself. I've been challenged on the board to be quiet, but just because I believe is why I'm silent because I see facts, I listen to people. I trust this Government and respect the Slovenian word "who is silent and the nine answers" and at least eight. The vast number of amendments tabled by the opposition is political populism. To see in the same breath that the Government is spending too much, then to capture the air and say that it does not help too much with the measures, strengthens me in the fact that we are on the right track and I will gladly confirm the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, which still slightly increase rights in view of the new facts agreed at European Community level. And for this law I will also come to the National Assembly outside the working time provided for by the public administration. I strongly reject the obvious that it is not hygienic to sit at night. You know why? Since you were already working on sabotage plans when the time for quality preparation of the report was running out on Thursday 28 May, we should postpone today’s session and create a legal void. And you would toast the success of the opposition. This will not happen because this Government does not have a super-coaliciary partner and thanks all the President of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Eva Irgle, for having successfully prepared the report. Thank you also to all professional colleagues who are concerned that extensive legislation is in line with other laws and, of course, with the Constitution. But as for the mask, because there's no colleague here, I was able to remove the mask because we have 1.5 meters, and there's a little bit of nudity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The word is Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u170	Thank you very much for taking the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the representatives of the Government are one good day again. There are quite a lot of debates today. I wasn't at the night session at the time, but I can imagine what a nightmare it must have been, probably a lot of people wondered if we were living in the 21st century. But today I will perhaps begin by being, I am a Member and a person who is always ready to talk, to cooperate and to associate with all citizens, let it be left, right, liberal, not important, with everyone. Anyone who comes to me is welcome, and I don't deny help to anyone, and anyone who comes to me, I don't ask if it's your belief to the left, to the right, to the middle, it doesn't matter. It is important that we have a good purpose, that we know that we are Members sent by people, that we are people to help ourselves. I am probably one of the few competent Members who, today in this Government or today in this National Assembly, can say and evaluate both Governments in this reference because I am a coalition Member of both governments. And I will comment on the statements made by former colleagues today that we are buying votes with vouchers, that we are buying votes in the elections with the help of all three Crown Packages. But I ask myself, rhetorically, but I really wonder when in the previous government we raised minimum wages, but did we buy votes? No, no, no. Not even a place of reason came to anyone to buy votes with it, just like today. Even then, and today, we always had people, people in distress at the time of our day. With this difference, the gross social product at the time was significantly better and we could have done so. But today we have another problem. But we are on the verge of a crisis that we may not even be aware of today. And the crisis is not that we give the economy the euro, two. This won't solve the crisis. This will not trigger the start of an economy. And the economy didn't stop this government. We had to stop the economy from successfully infecting the COVID-19 epidemic, which the whole world also recognises. We are the first European country to declare the end of the epidemic. But no, no, not admit it. Like 91, when the war lasted only 10 days, no, it's nothing. But the fact is, the truth is completely different. We do not know what will happen in September, but this government is working today, working hard to save and bring the economy out of this volume of crisis. Yes, Bonnie. We can take them as candy, but we can take them as fuel to start the economy. They are not social measures, they are not social remedies. It's true, they won't be able to use them. And that single mother who barely has enough to survive. Maybe she'll take advantage of it, but maybe she won't. But the fact is that the purpose is good and will bring very large multiplier effects. Because, apart from construction, tourism has a very large multiplier effect. Why? It's not just hotel service, it's not just help to big companies. Now we have a voucher, citizens and citizens in our hands. We'll decide where we go. But we'll go to Portorož, we'll go to Bled or we'll go to Logar Valley or we'll go to rural tourism or we'll go to Ormož or we'll go to Murska Sobota for a small pension. We don't have to spend the voucher on our own. We can share it, we can donate it, we can use it, we can cash it for the whole family. In short, the fact and purpose of this voucher is that we, citizens, come to another place, to another place, not that the state pays us a whole holiday, but that we spend one small amount of money, our money, which in any case would be spent on vacations, at home, in Slovenia. And by doing so, we allocate resources, our own resources and the start-up of the economy. And this will keep the shops in that place, the museums, if we go on one trip, will also have some of these local guides. Do you even know how many guides are out of work today? And believe me, they wouldn't be saved if they said that this voucher was split into everything because then people would only share 200 euros and not buy ice cream and not go on a trip, but they would still go on vacation to Croatia, and here they would spend at least as much as the country gives us. But the state gave us a voucher, not for being a candy, but for starting the economy. And when we overlook that, we will see that this measure is truly good and excellent. The art of life. The art of life is not to look for bad things in good things. We need to be aware of that. The art of life is to find good things everywhere, accept them, live and pass on to others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u171	Thank you. A colleague of Andrej Chernigoj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u172	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary of State and Secretary. Dear colleagues and colleagues. With the great help and wisdom of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have listened to government and coalition parties' actions, we have successfully invaded the Virus COVID-19. I would also like to commend the efforts of some opposition colleagues. The first two packages, which have successfully helped the Slovenian economy, companies, family companies and self-employed people and more than a million 200,000 Slovenes and 60% of all citizens, have hit fertile ground. We adhere to the principle of the Attac, non-verbal - actions, not words. Let me jump on my example. I've worked nine years in an international environment in the past. I have a lot of friends abroad, and I can tell you, I still have contact with them. We're in touch and they're calling me. Do you know how many people, friends from other countries, would be happy to accept what we have today in Slovenia with positive and negative effects? So much for a propo. But today in the National Assembly we are discussing the third package of measures that we have prepared to alleviate the epidemic, with great emphasis on Slovenian tourism. The new package will listen most to the economy and to every individual citizen, says yours and my neighbor. The whole package is worth not a million, not a hundred million, but a billion euros. And these are not the actions of one party, but all four coalition parties, including New Slovenia. As Minister Janez Cigler Kralj, Minister of Nova Slovenije, mentioned, the government relied on the first two experiences when preparing the third anti-korona package. With the new measures, we are responding together to the situation and the need for time. Waiting for work in June, short-term subsidies and a tourist voucher are bearable measures. Since I come from a wine-growing family and have worked for quite some time in the economy, I support the proposal to extend for one month the existing measure of subsidisation of waiting for work mainly in the sectors of tourism, households and all households and all related activities, which will maintain a larger number of jobs. For me, the main asset of the third package is not tourist vouchers, but subsidisation of reduced working time. The government and the coalition MPs, and consequently the State, will subsidise the remuneration of between 5 and 20 hours a week for any worker who cannot be provided with a full-time job. Finally, I would like to highlight the measure which we give to every Slovenian citizen by means of a voucher in the pocket of money and free hands in order to afford the necessary leave, thereby helping tourism companies and workers. Let me repeat, every full-year citizen will receive a voucher of 200 euros, less than 50 euros, and may also carry them in the family circle and spend them by the end of the year, including the New Year's Eve. Slovenians will again discover the beauty of Slovenia, because the biggest promoter of Slovenia, in addition to the very successful promotion of Slovenia abroad, are citizens themselves. And if I judge by myself, I value something more if I have to pay for it myself than I get to get everything for free on a platter. Colleagues and colleagues, I will support the draft law on intervention measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of the Covid-19 epidemic. With this, I will support 60,000 jobs in tourism and encourage Slovenians and Slovenians to use the voucher and discover the beauty of Slovenia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u173	Thank you. The word is given by the Minister, Janez Cigler King.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u174	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come across a series of slightly more positive interventions, speeches, which does not mean that I am not grateful, on behalf of the Government, even for those more critical. The criticism is also in place that we can better think, think again, and as you can see, even what action to complement, correct, upgrade, with the amendments tabled, I hope, we also show that we are dialogueal. Thank you for noticing that the Government and the Ministry of Labour, which is the institution of the law, are positive. The social partners, both employers and employers, have recognised this, I think, and I would like to reiterate, here, the importance of the process within the Economic and Social Council in addressing this package of the PKP3 proposal. As one of the Members has already mentioned, in today's debate, measures, particularly those relating to the labour market, have reached a high level of consensus on the proposed measures, which undoubtedly gives these proposals a sound and sound basis for you, too, in the National Assembly, to be well received. Perhaps some, fresh data, on the labour market, to emphasise once again how with the proposal for a waiting-for-work measure, i.e. subsidising waiting for work at home, for that part of the economy that will not yet be able to start, not in part, and, at the same time, stress, to the extent that you will accept and believe that you will, these amendments proposed, at Article 26 and at the same time a possible measure to subsidise part-time work, for that part of the economy that will be able to start, but not in full, with these figures, I can, perhaps, show that it would be a very successful combination of measures for the labour market or, if I simply say, to keep as many jobs as possible. This is one of the key objectives of the government and our ministry to maintain as many jobs as possible. Indeed, as some of you have pointed out, the inflow, in the record of the unemployed, either explicitly or strongly, has increased, especially from the end of March this year to somewhere, late April this year. At the Ministry of Labour, we closely monitored this movement and analysed the data. At the same time, we were watching over numbers in terms of how the economy would respond to the measures offered in the CAP1 and 2. And, together, we can find that, while the large rise in unemployment was much lower than it would have been if there were no measures offered. We have already estimated from the outset that some 260 000 jobs in our country could be at risk because of the crisis, and the response of employers to our actions was right here somewhere. So far, we have included around 260 thousand jobs in the waiting-at-home measure for about 200,000 employees. So without these measures, we can pour ourselves pure wine, pressure on the record of the unemployed, the number of the unemployed is inadequately higher, and inadequately difficult in the long term to handle and save. I am also serving with optimistic information that, at the end of April, in early May, this influx began to calm down to the unemployment register and has stopped somewhere today at this, hopefully, highest point of about 90,000 unemployed. Now, this in itself still does not mean anything, we are still closely monitoring the situation, but at the same time there is another optimistic data: that there is an outflow, that is to say, an ever-increasing outflow from the unemployment register. More and more of those who get out of the unemployment register are re-employed. That is why we wanted to offer as soon as possible a measure which abroad, including in Austria and Germany, reaps or yields favourable results, and this is a measure of subsidising reduced working time, to pay countries to enable employers who do not have enough work to do, and I would like to keep good employees when they need them as soon as the situation improves and we believe, after all the predictions that they will be able to start production services with them in 2021, whichever activity they have. Thank you also for the positive responses to the value voucher for tourism. Let me tell you that we have received as a team and ourselves an extremely large number of positive responses to this proposal. Some fear was expressed at the beginning when the measure began to be announced, because of the bad news, perhaps even unpretentious, that it would not be directed at all. The measure is intended for all citizens, all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and when we have managed to make this clear, people have responded very positively. I will not forget the response of a representative of one of the most vulnerable, vulnerable groups in Slovenia, these are single retired women who thanked me very much, and I do not need these praises, but I am speaking to tell you how much this means to people, and she said she would be very happy to take advantage of this voucher. I think that perhaps after a long time, many will be able to return to a tourist destination, spend some quality time, for we all need to live and work normally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u175	Thank you very much. My colleague Marko Bandelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u176	I'd like to sign up for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u177	You have the floor. We're still at Article 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u178	Minister, nice words, because it's true, because you know we appreciate everything you've said and the truth, there's a lot to it. Now, you know, coming out today, when I read the budget in four months, the first four months 700 million deficits. Now, here a man imagines a little and says, it's not a nice thing, we're not waiting, we're not waiting for light days, vice versa. Now we know why. This is due to lower tax revenues, absolutely this is one of the reasons, then, I don't know, absolutely because, I mean, stopping the economy itself, this is also one of the causes, the main causes, but we have to ask ourselves when and why this stop has occurred, so drasticly stopping the economy. I'm asking myself. It may have been really necessary to cut off this production cycle, if you say so, Slovenia. Operational, economic cycle. It may also be that, but probably in certain sectors, in my opinion, it was probably not necessary and this deficit, which today is writing 700 million, could be considerably smaller. Now, these three laws that are here today on the table, I personally support them and you know that in all my deliberations on the boards I have confirmed this, they seem to me, I will not say urgent, but proper, if I say so, I will express myself as constructively as such, solve certain things that are urgent, and on the other hand, we ask what will happen to us tomorrow. Now, I would really be at the heart of this government and who knows that the Sab party is basically a constructive opposition, so we have never been to look only black and that we have always been against everything, but we have confirmed a variety of proposals that have now been on the table, I think almost everything about it, but now we have the right to say our concerns and to say perhaps also with some good and different proposal. Because like I said many times, you can't just protest and not put a proposal on the table. It's absurd, it's a basic absurdity of diplomacy. Now, I would really like the government to tighten this brake a little bit. Now, this Samaritan system of giving right to the average of everyone in a row, all of what they invent to get what they want, however, I think here too now must be the end of this. Because I know it's important that everyone gets it because I don't know what category or whatever activity doesn't get anything right now. Well, that's very commendable, I say it myself, very commendable, but we need to be careful where we can get credit. Not because of us. Because of our craftsmen, because that's what we're going to drag on. This morning we confirmed the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be married by 2053! Are we aware, 33 years? Thirty-three years. I hope I'll still be here then, but we'll probably leave all this to a lot of people. He did say the President then, because we inherited something else. That's true too, but you know, we still have to be careful. I'm here with this law that I have before me, I don't have any big problems, because basically, you know, even the amendments that are written now, the biggest nonsense is that we go to every article and we start writing amendments to show up as a party, that we're against or that we want something different, that we want to show that we don't agree, just on principle can, because it's one or the other, it's not true. [[…]] That's not true. I'd do some small changes here, personally, but generally, if I said so, it's not a bad thing. I will be able to focus only on Article 37, so that I will not repeat myself with the kid again, because I think that we are going to have a more general discussion about this. I will tell you that only in this article did I hear a little discriminatory behavior towards other activities. It is true, we repeat and say, and always speak, the industry, the tourism industry is the one that suffered the most - it is not true that only the tourism industry has suffered. Where general stores, for example, are all closed doors. Why wouldn't a bon also be written so it could be consumer. Why exactly as a bon we have to have only a hotel night, then the war was at least breakfast, because otherwise we wouldn't have to share, but why can't a man in that hotel also use lunch and dinner on this bona bill. I don't understand that. I'm asking. And I know that you have an answer, I know that you want to speed up the activity as well as the hospitality and give the tourist a chance to come to bed and then spend it there. But you have to ask yourself, if it's right, I mean, if this study that you've done is properly done, it's not just a theory that there's not going to be any real, real thing in practice, like it's fashion to talk about this multiple result now, or I don't know what it is. I mean, now we're making up, every time there's a new marriage, there's a new term, so people don't even know what it is. But look, the thing, the point is, what I see here is what's missing. First of all, I am sorry that this voucher is 200 euros, 200 euros, because the husband and wife are going to the sea to afford 4 stars of the hotel for 3 days, which costs 600 euros, so we should give 200 euros to each other, but we could go to some rural tourism with breakfast and what kind of dinner, which costs 25, 30 euros. But what will this innkeeper do? Now you're gonna have to force them to stay there for six days to spend 200 euros. And it was our idea that in our amendment that we presented to the good amendment to divide this voucher 200 into 50, as children have, into the same amount, that was our only difference, which was there, which I don't think would be a dispute about this, nothing at all. In order to extend this voucher then, in order to be able to talk about it, to be for other purposes, I do not see why not, but especially in those categories where it was not possible to work, because it was stopped, especially trade, if we are speaking in this sense. I'm giving an example of, essentially, it says there's technical goods, because in the ravines they could go inside, so many people per square meter, which is, the others were waiting outside, the distance is 1.5 meters. Why didn't we leave this in the technical stores? We left the agricultural trade to do what was right, and then there were the blinders, because there were agricultural shops, which also had construction materials and technical commerce, those who could have had it, and then when we reported it, they put it in the middle of the spaghetti, but they said, you know what, call me, and I'll get you a washing machine and we'll get you what you needed. And that's how it was done, some. And that's true because we reported it and we did it. That's why I'm saying why stop the matter now just at this point in the hotel business. I'm not going to say bad now, as some people are saying, because the minister is from this "fokht" and he understands that it's just the channel he's interested in. I don't believe this is it. I think it would be better if we could open up at least the 200 euros so that one could also benefit from catering services, services, that's all. Same place, same hotel, nothing else. I ask, nothing else, my opinion. It's also one thing why I say it, why I'm giving it to you as a proposal. Because I am sure that at least a third of people in Slovenia will not take advantage of these vouchers. Those who are waiting, those who are unemployed, those who come through the month “gli” so much to come, are grateful to receive the 200-euro voucher, grateful, the question if this voucher could not come for other things because they have other needs. They probably like to get this 200-euro voucher, but they don't want to spend the night in one hotel that they can't afford otherwise, which they don't have, they probably would need, I don't know, a new dishwasher or something that they really need. I'm giving an example, I'm just talking, and here we could do this help to them and help a trader who's also going to be locked up. Same house as the hotel. It's just that there's a difference in why I'm probably thinking a little bit wider. Now, a fellow here earlier said that the bon wasn't that bon money in the free hands. Bon's not free money, let's be honest. Bon's exactly on the way. Bon is exactly meant for you to go to a hotel and get breakfast in the morning. That's all. That's all. Nothing else. Nothing else. So there's nothing in your hands, it would be free to get a voucher and go to Furs and say, "Here, now I'm going to deduct 200 euros from your taxes and contributions," means you're going to have 200 euros left in your pocket and you're doing whatever you want with them. I mean, let me give you an example, that would be in the open hands. So it's not in the open hands, is it? I liked what you did, but what you did was that it was transferable, I mean, the entitlement of relatives at the level of the species. It's a very good thing, I commend it, and I think it's also the right line, not too wide, it's just a direct line. And that's something you can take advantage of. It may not be the whole family, but at least they'll give a voucher together and then some people can take advantage of it. You know, what I wrote, this observation I made about 10 days ago, which is, I posted on Facebook, you know. And when you get 73,000 900 people who are interested in and read the whole thing, it's a big number, you know. More than 1,000 people answered me, probably 980 of them who agreed with me. And you know if Ninamedia and Mediana are with 700 samples that make the revolution who is the better party in Slovenia. And when you get 1,000 different heads yourself, it's probably a much more credible thing. That's why I say, people see, hear, listen, think for themselves, and they can decide. And that was my one suggestion, nothing else. And that's why this amendment that we put here was just basically on it. One paragraph, the tenth, I will now read to you, but this is, I apologize to say, the disgust of the providers of these services, their shame, which I hope now that I already know that you will, I think, are already preparing a change of this matter here. M, I don't have the floor to say that if you book directly on the Internet, you'll pay them, you'll have, I don't know, a night of 100 euros, and if you pay with a voucher, they'll charge you 150 euros. Where did we come from? How do they afford to say something like that? Well, that's a shame. I wouldn't go into that hotel again, ma, in my life, ma, once in. And that's what's happening. 25 articles of the Consumer Act, that is, you know what this is about. This is a crime. It's a felony. And I hope so, I know, I've heard before that there's been a change in this and I'm very pleased, look. Even if our amendment from the SAB is not adopted, at least certain points will be summarised in this matter, this is our goal, this communication that we wanted to say. And I think you understand what I'm trying to say. As far as I'm concerned, I can tell you right now, we're not going to be opposed to these laws, we're not even going to be supporting one. So in general terms, as far as the measures are concerned, I will say again, I will tell you clearly what is the position of the SAB – the measures have been good for me. If such measures were not taken, it would probably be a different situation and picture now, probably. But I'm still those ideas, and I'm pretty sure that probably there was a little bit too much in which area and it might not be 700 million now, but this manca could be a little bit smaller. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Anyone else at 2nd? My colleague Violeta Tomic. Sorry, Secretary of State first.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u180	Thank you, Mr. President. One couple of things about the last discussion would have been answered or explained that it would have been easier to understand why we had gone this way but not wider or otherwise. I'd like to start where you started. Now that this is the main first wave behind us and we are wondering whether we have done the right thing or not, whether we have closed the economy properly or not, or whether we have closed it properly or not, I must tell you that we have not closed the economy in fact. We left the real production alone. And it was a tough decision. It was a difficult decision to make at the time not to close the production. Thank God, too, because they have properly taken care of the protection and the organisation of the work process alone, there has been no outbreak in any production activity. But somewhere else they decided to shut down production. We didn't make those decisions. Still, a lot of people stopped because the supply chain was broken and there was no work to be done. But now we can look back, we can agree on every single thing so that we can be more generals. But we can't know what would have happened if it had been. Surely something better could have been done, something worse, but I think we all find that we have successfully dealt with this problem and that we now have good results anyway. As for the vouchers and the questions why we do not extend this to all sectors or to all those who have been closed, so it is. In fact, we have encouraged consumption by other measures. So we've given money both for the students and for the pensioners, and they can buy whatever they want. The very voucher for exclusively tourism, of course, has its logic and its philosophy from behind. We want to achieve the following by giving a voucher just for the night. We do not want this 200 euro person to spend in one hotel or in one accommodation. We want to bring the guest to the place and we want him to spend extra money in this place. The projections we have been making in the preparation of this measure show that there are still 10 euros to be expected for €200, some spending more, others less, but an average of 100 euros. Which means that if this measure is used as much as possible, we expect under an optimistic scenario that 70% will be used, somewhere between 50 and 70, the most optimistic is 70. But if it were maximum, it would mean more than half a billion demand for tourism. No, because we want to bring a guest to a place where he will then go to lunch at the village inn, not the hotel to spend there and encourage him to encourage local food production with this, of course, because that inn also has to buy some of his raw materials. That he'd go to a cultural event, go rafting, go to a mountain cabin, eat lunch there. In short, he'll keep spending there. But if we give a voucher for the stores that were, say, closed and we do – what? – you don't really have a multiple effect. But we want to reach him with this, even though I know that word goes on your nerves. But this is the philosophy behind which we wanted to achieve. The second problem or other reason why we went on, let's say, is because we want this measure to be as watertight as possible. There's got to be less room for all kinds of machinations and plays. The moment we give it, let's say when we announce it, I got a lot of calls and letters, how people are going to use it all, how can this measure be used to get some amount of money, and then you don't spend it for that purpose, and so on. In case they give me those vouchers for the rest of them, I don't know, but for innkeepers, how do we control it? We now consider it a room for those who are registered as rental facilities or who offer accommodations. We've got a system set up. They have to sign up every guest. And given that we are tying the voucher to the resident, we will only upgrade this system, connect it with the FURS, which will be the operator of this measure and also the payer, and do so in due course. If we were to extend this to all possible ideas, we would not have lost this measure by the end of the year, in my opinion. Now it's huge, for every thing we've expanded, let's say you can pass on a million new questions that you have to close, too, so there's no play. This is a measure that is very broad. The widest possible measure, i.e. covers all residents, 2 million, covers hundreds of legal entities. Of course, more robust and more watertight, if I call it that, a measure as many individual stories as you have listed by Ambassador Bandelli. And they're going to go on a farm to tourism, and there's going to be a 150-euro bill instead of 200. Of course, if you're doing such a broad measure, you can't cover everything. But the moment you make exceptions, you open up a million questions and a million problems. That's why we went this way. It's not a hundred percent ideal measure. We're aware of that. Nobody's here. There can't be any action. We believe, however, that it will contribute to not having to give people from hospitality to the institution, but that they will be able to do what they can do So that employees will also retain the staff they have been raising for so long. The most important thing in the restaurant, and in tourism, is actually having a good frame and it would be a real shame if we lost them now, because of this crisis, this frame. This is a measure to make people do what they know, what they like to do, and what brings jobs. We hope that in this way we will stimulate demand for half a billion and that this will result in so much less negative effects and so much less unemployment. Of course, if we are now, on the other hand, working on measures such as restricting the free economic initiative of a particular industry, then we will again impose new unemployed ones, but we have already discussed this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u181	Thank you. A colleague of Violeta Tomić has the floor to prepare her colleague Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u182	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Government. So I will say, the more this government boasts about these measures, the more it is clear that the resolution of the crisis is completely out of their hands. Now, if I were to connect, your philosophy, as you said, and the simulation, that with these 200 euros, someone would spend another 100 euros, go somewhere, even to a concert and dinner, while you completely forgot about culture – where will the concerts be? Where's the theater going to be? This government is totally ignoring the culture of this nation and here, the biggest tax of this crown of crisis will be suffered by culture and the environment, without it, you know, these two things are the most important and the problem is, where are the priorities of this government? You still bet on endless economic growth as if it were the only criteria. But you never care how many people are actually hungry, and this moment, how many people, I don't know, is sick, who lost the roof over their heads, but with this 200-euro bonus, someone will go on vacation. That's why we proposed an amendment in Levica that someone who can't afford to get in a car and spend another 100 euros in cash, plus 200 so that they can get that money in cash, spend it on emergency stuff, so that they don't move it out of the apartment, while he drives his car or he drives public transport, spends a voucher for 200 euros. Give bit life, you know, and, we have offered you participation in the opposition, but the government is fasting, making laws that are both nomotechnically and substantively devastating and then listening to the praises how very good you are doing. It's not. The interested public is protesting, asking you to listen. Environmentalists are being taken away and deported, cultural people are being ignored. Now, I don't know whether because of stubbornness or ego or because of, in particular, some incompetence, you are putting in front of us some proposals, where you, too, the Legal and Legal Service, clearly warns that they don't even automatically count. But the problem is, this is going to be paid by craftsmen and our grandkids, and that worries me, the whole thing. Now you are singing praises to the people of 200 euros. It's really, really unworthy. And now that the measures are not working, this is increasingly obvious, because, see, in the first anti-Corona law, it is estimated that the government, which would weigh between 2 and 3 billion euros, should be up to 15. 5. Only EUR 350 million was paid. It's dripping into the sea. It's supposed to be because it's not working. Then, for the remuneration of workers on hold, you promised 600 million euros, you paid less than 50 million. For the payment of the employees' contributions on hold, promised EUR 300 million, only 19 million were released — from 300, 19, do you see what percentages of realisation are here? Stop it. I'm asking you to praise me for your success. Sit down and be a little self-critical and listen to someone who wants this country and the citizens for the good. Only 73, less than half, were paid to finance contributions to PZ, to employees who work to provide 164 million euros. By 15 May, when the Government had already abolished the epidemic and thus prevented the extension of the measures by the end of June, only 20% of the promised aid had been implemented. Let's do this. We're dealing with a third anticoroyal package and the first and second are not working. The government promised to freeze the payment of credits to businesses and the population and then allowed banks to charge interest on deferred loans. In short, the government's inability to implement this law has resulted in the fact that not a single loan with a State guarantee has been issued in practice. In such a way that this intervention law, in particular when making important investments for the start-up of the economy, means the resumption of systemic corruption, which under this Government has been enriched at least by purchases of respirators, masks and other protective equipment. In short, measures are being taken that have absolutely nothing to do with the crisis. Janša's coalition tries to adopt as quietly as possible, through all democratic procedures and standards of this law, in accordance with the doctrine of shock under cover of the crisis, and then disable the referendum, and we will therefore be sitting here again tomorrow at 7:00 p.m. to seal the ban on the referendum every time. Completely unacceptable and undemocratic. In short, laws contain a bunch of solutions that have nothing to do with the epidemic and the elimination of consequences, but they are extremely harmful to human health, nature, increasing repression, allowing untransparent use of resources, and not to continue to mention. Now, what hurts me most personally because I am president of the Committee on Culture is that this Government has completely forgotten about culture and culture. And on purpose. She completely forgot, and now two days ago they came in and taped the ministry with papers, with banners, but nothing. Nothing. Despite the great gestures and slogans about patriotism, while the flags are being flung and everything, it is quite clear how much art this Government means to art, you know, and it is doing a great harm to the nation, because without the culture and art of the nation. And without an environment, he's gone, and these two points are the most neglected. I am not surprised that, according to research, one third of the Slovenian population no longer understands the most easily written text, because it is obvious that there is a deliberate misunderstanding and lauding for profit of enormous growth and the only job of course is working in a factory and shop intellectual work is for sloths, for parasites, etc. And then it's no wonder that I get a threatening letter where Slovenia writes from "him". Unfortunately, you know, and this government, which has a mouthful of patriotism, has forgotten about the basic principles of statehood, because the death of culture is the death of a nation, if we operate on that word again. Now, look, the European comparison shows that Slovenia is on the verge of solving the crisis and problems, especially the problems of unemployment. Let's pour ourselves some pure wine. We're in second place. We've only got Greece ahead of us. It's so hard to listen to bragging and lying about how we're the best. We didn't. We're defeated. The money's gone, and we don't even know where. See, 36.8% of job losses in Slovenia, Greece 41.8%. exceeds only Greece, while Italy has 29%, Croatia 22%, Germany 20%, Austria 13.7%. So it's not really what we're saying. Then, see, when allocating funds from the European Union, they exist in the COVID-19 aid package, for the first time grants and for the second time, credit funds. Yeah, and then there's totals. And persistently kicking us, this government is trying very hard to kick us into the eastern block, the former Warsaw Pact, the current Multi-Garden Group, and what is happening to us? Let's take a look at the table where we are among those who will take credit and pay very dearly, pay our grandchildren, see, here you have Europe, and the grants get the countries of the no-east block where we are going now, but Austria, Belgium, Germany, Denmark Who will be responsible for putting us in a block where we don't belong, and the scholars will pay for this question of some ideological madness that doesn't belong anywhere. But you know, this commercial, populist view is also very disastrous about culture, because let culture succeed on the market. Will we be aware that the written word in the Slovenian language is of exceptional importance from Trubar onward, or will we go, I do not know back to the dark Middle Ages, where we will fight again, I do not know the right to speak our own language? Now, I'm just asking you to hear what the opposition is saying to you, and above all not to ignore the plight of the population, which is enormous. We have stopped the economy, many of them have lost their jobs and we are boasting here that they can now go to sea for 200 euros. You know, for 200 euros, you're going nowhere hard. Above all, it's the start of culture. Who's going to help the culturers? The theaters are closed, but why can the churches work and the theater don't? And I don't go to ideology, but it's the same thing, there's a closed space, and there's so many people in there. Why for some yes, not for others? And the theatre season, and then the secretary at the Ministry says, "Yeah, let's focus on the monodrama." How? But you know that the ensembles count so many and so many people that they have employees and that this is not only about players, musicians, but also about all the related professions that are linked to culture. Even if all the theaters are opened today, it takes three months to make a new production. Okay, they can play old shows, but how many people are really going to dare come into a closed space with all this psychosis we've had? So, I'll finish it slowly. I would really like to put my hand on your heart or wherever you want culture to go. And if it goes that way, we're not going to have anything to refer to, but we're going to have a dirty industry, anhovo, a Celje boiler, I don't know, a Lafarge, a cracking in Petišovci, but we're going to get our own home, so that the patriots will sell it to the dirtiest industry and then we'll have sick people and a dirty environment? [[…]] Environmentalists are doing a very important job, protecting the public interest of citizens and citizens, but unfortunately not what we should be doing here in Parliament. And luckily there is a civil initiative of people who don't care who live in this environment and don't want their children born in an environment where they can't breathe healthy air. By paying attention to the social distress of people, to the healthy environment and to culture, for without it we are not. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u183	Thank you. The word has Janja the Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Yeah, now I wouldn't say, well, at least in our Group of Members, we didn't brag about the fact that these measures are something terribly good and what we've done, not by any chance. It is a fact, however, what my colleague Violet said and I can join her here, that, in fact, it is also a matter of cultural action under my expectations. I've spent quite a bit of my working time in culture, most of it. And I must say that there were several proposals for each anti-korona package from the cultural ministry. Finally, yes, of course, I can agree with what the Minister has said that somehow these measures for cultural people are also covered by those proposed by the economy or by the Minister of Economic Affairs, of course, but there would certainly be more. In particular, the theatres are now, and so are others. Well, for the last time I've warned about musicians, and those who organize concerts and so on, but the theatre is the best I know and I know that what they need in the difficult troubles and beyond these measures is a little bit more effort by their competent ministry also in the direction of some guidance, some coordination, the passage of the season, the repertoire, the determination of what is with the old performances, which are somehow set in broader occupations than is allowed at this point and so on. So that the problems are essentially something and I hope I have today addressed an electronic message to the minister with the initiative to respond in essence. And I hope this reaction does. Now, to this package, what has been most debated today is the most exposed. I have to say that, in fact, if I look at just the ratio of all three anti-korona packages, that is essentially a large part, very large part of it is intended for social measures. Of course also economically, but when we look at the relationship between each other, we cannot say that this social aspect has been neglected. Here, of course, let me remind you of these crisis supplements and the pensioners and the students and so on, that was quite something. And all of this together, when we combine it somehow, I think this part is also appropriately addressed. As far as these tourist vouchers are concerned, the following must first be said here. This tourist voucher is not a social measure. This is a measure that is specifically designed to recover the sector that has been so badly affected – affected among the first and that will in fact be able to work at least roughly among the latter. And that's why when we talk, even when people on the ground come out and say, "What can I do with 200 euros, because then I need this?" So once again, with these 200 euros, there's only one supplement, one supplement, one, I'm going to say some extra money that anyone can spend in the context of what they were going to spend on vacation. And I am pleased that the Secretary of State has explained in such detail the objective of this measure before. In fact, I can really agree here, of course there are concerns “yes, we should devote these vouchers for the whole service, we should also break them down, allow them to be used only partially” and so on. That's the way it is. If we want the measure to take effect immediately, virtually immediately, then this measure must be widely laid down and primarily must be simple- simple for the one who receives the voucher, as well as for the one where this voucher is then cashed. And there's no easier thing to do than to get to a tourist service provider, tell your tax number, he confirms it in the system, you have an app on your phone where you confirm it and you say it's really you and you want to cash it in to this provider and within seven days, within seven days, then this money comes into the client's account. Here I specifically warn, that if we pay with a payment card, the credit card comes to the provider within 30 days and now it will come within seven days, and from this point of view it is even more unacceptable what we are following now through the media and when people are adverting and alerting how some bidders have raised prices if the payment is in this voucher. I find that unacceptable. It really seems unacceptable to me, and I am pleased that today we have coordinated this content and have also pointed out this and that an amendment has already been tabled, which stipulates that the voucher is of course equivalent to the payment in money and that the provider of this fee cannot raise this price due to the payment of the voucher. But I would say something else, even if we didn't put it in the legislative process now and change the texts, but I am glad that we did, but let's imagine that people should do this distinction and say so themselves, this bidder has raised the price and that I will not pay it back to him and I will go to someone who has not done so and who does not wish to take unfair advantage of this measure. I doubt that we will stand in line for all those who do not know 300, 400 or 500 euros to raise the price because we will pay with a voucher. I doubt it, and I wish I didn't, and I want people to show these bidders how they feel about them by not going there, because it's a really unfair practice. And that such a thing happens at a time when every bidder should be happy that such a voucher will allow people to come to it, and then in this way raise prices and literally cheat people, I really think it's too much. However, the following needs to be said with regard to all these measures. I mean, harmonising these contents, then further discussions, when warnings come, what else is missing, where the problem may arise, where all the holes are, what else should this be, are really extensive, extensive content. [[Incomprehensible]] And I must say for myself, it is very difficult to coordinate this. One of the content that came yesterday by disabled organisations is that it is imperative to include their capacities, i.e. the capacity offered by disabled and humanitarian organisations for disabled persons, because other tourist facilities are not accessible to them. And of course we are right away, I'm going to say the whole coalition was in favour of this idea, and then, unfortunately, we found that the matter was not feasible. Minister kima, because he knows how we have tried to harmonise this content and to include it in the package so that these vouchers can also be reimbursed for these capacities in disabled and humanitarian organisations. But in the end, we found out what — that not all were entered into the system, that they were not registered, and that this was simply not the way to confirm the voucher. I am very sorry that this is the case, but I regret to say that there has been a lot of effort, a lot of communication involved in making things up in some way. But at this point, it's impossible. I hope, however, that the disabled will also find those capacities that suit them so that they can still use this voucher. The following issue, which we have already found on the Committee's principles, and then in further communication we have found that it is really necessary to correct, however, an article which regulates the crisis allowance of these 30 Euros per day for force, protection and rescue during their interventions or, at the same time, there was in the first version at the time of the call, then we have found that not all of them are covered by this dictatorship or that only 30 Euros per day would be eligible for this supplement and only those directly assigned to, I don't know, disinfection, mask sharing and so on. But not those who, for example, are now talking about voluntary firefighters, about mountain rescuers who have responded to interventions at this time of crisis and who, in our opinion, have been under the same risk working conditions, in our opinion. If I give an example, I don't know, at this time, there was a mountain rescue intervention where a couple of mountaineers climbed and it's just a risky matter because you don't know if these mountaineers are infected or not infected, and so on and so forth, and it was all done in masks and gloves. Or, I don't know, the intervention of volunteer firefighters when they were in a car accident saving lives and people getting out of cars seems the same to me. And that's why it seemed fair to us, and in the SMC we pointed out this and thank you for the hearings, that we then, of course, aligned with the competent ministry and also with the minister who carries this package, that we subsequently corrected the matter and settled it in a more fair manner, so that volunteers and mountain rescuers and all the others who responded to the intervention at that time are also involved. These are things that we may never even notice, but in the very text it is right that people on the ground then warn us and I am grateful that they have warned us, regardless of the fact that the time pressure was such that we, in fact, have coordinated this text today, but of course it is right that we did. And I hope we've forgotten something about him or missed them or whatever, because, of course, with such a large package, all of this is difficult. Maybe I'll go back to those valuables again. As I said, their purpose is to start a branch that was among the most affected. When I listened to the explanation and the purpose, that is to spend these overnight or bed and breakfast vouchers, because it is intended to spend extra money and further encourage tourism, it helps people who are employed there, it helps not to lose their jobs, they will be called back to fill somehow not only this accommodation capacity, but everything that people then serve on vacation. So, visits to various museums and galleries or, I don't know, we were warned about adrenaline parks and then, I don't know, what pizzas at the pizza shop and dinner at the restaurant and so on. And that this effect is the vouchers themselves and then this additional consumption, which is expected and estimated at 172 million then half a billion. And that's just one thing, I'm going to say, the financial impact that we can really expect to have in the moment be the results. And I'm glad that's the solution. Surely not everyone will like it quite as much as most can't write down a measure that everyone likes. But still, I think we're on the right track with this move. I expect that the results will be monitored and that it will react even if it turns out that there is still something additional. As once again, I am pleased that the amendment has now limited these price increases for vouchers and that our warning regarding the inclusion of voluntary firefighters and rescue workers has also been taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u185	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss this under Article 2? My friend Luke Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! I'm actually going to comment on this third crown law in a few points. First thing, I'm just going to go on where my predecessor ended up, so that's what these shepherds are, let's say, the biggest pianos project of this law. There are some kinds of vacations paid by the government. Every citizen is supposed to get 200 euros. Now, the first thing that surprises me here is that a group of economists around the government did not foresee something as clear as what happened today, namely that prices would go up. In fact, the publicly available information is that last year there were 250 million euros spent in Slovenia, foreign and domestic, from June to December. Now, the government will only distribute 100 million more money with this sheepdog, only to domestic guests, than was all the nights together, for 350 million euros. You can imagine what will happen. People will start mass “buking” holidays because they will have a voucher for this purpose, capacity will quickly fill, hotels, accommodations and so on, but will behave marketly and will take advantage of the opportunity, because capacity will be full, they will raise prices. This is, very simple, but economic logic behind it, and there is no way to prevent or, perhaps, talk about drastic intervention in order to simply prohibit any price rise in terms of today, but, such a matter would probably be unconstitutional, i.e., to intervene in a free economic initiative. So the solution to be followed here is essentially what we have proposed in the opposition. This voucher should, given how much money it contains and who it subsidizes, namely, we are in fact talking to a large extent about the subsidy of foreign hotel owners and accommodation capacities, it is necessary to expand the way that the money is rounded up as much as possible in the domestic economy, namely, we propose two. First, it is necessary to help one sector in which the government has completely forgotten, that is, culture and a lot of people would rather buy, I don't know, a city theater subscription than spend that money on vacations – why not allow people to do so? There this money will reach domestic operators, domestic directors, players and everyone who are employed in the theatre and will make a good round-up in the domestic economy. Moreover, in theatres there are usually quite free seats, unfortunately, and in this way you could encourage people to start going there more often. On the other hand, it is necessary to know that everyone will not be able to use this voucher. Older people who, I don't know, don't go on vacations, disabled people, and so on and so forth, and it would make sense to them, just to let them buy something else with this card. Then there are poorer segments of the population. We have proposed that those who have less than 120% of the minimum cost of living income on a family member should simply be allowed to convert this money into euros and spend it on living needs. Like we say, we have people who deserve, I don't know, minimum wages, a couple of 100 euros a month or maybe even less, they're poor pensioners. These people can't afford holidays, and even with a wolf, they'll have a hard time affording them, because they're already having a hard time getting living costs, such as food, bills and so on, and we don't see why these people who are sure to spend money in their home economy would be able to easily convert the sheep into euros and pay their bills or buy some vital necessities at home. In short, if we want to avoid inflation in prices in tourism and if we want this sheepdog to actually benefit everyone, we need to spread it. We propose that, on the one hand, it be expanded for the poorer and for those who cannot spend it in such a way that it can be converted into euro and for others that it can be used for other services, at the head of culture. Another problem we have with the crown law is to overlook the entire sectors. That's a little bit of a principle. Culture, I've already mentioned it, is among the most neglected, and I'll mention it again. Now, on the government side, I don't think I'm the only one in this country who reads it like that, but there's a simple opinion that culture is some kind of market activity, that, I don't know, some number that's spinning on Radio 1 doesn't have any less cultural value than I don't know, and that's why it doesn't matter what kind of cultural production we have. This was the last time to be very clear from this SDS memo by the European Parliament, Romane Tomc, who raised the justified amount of dust. In fact, this opinion is completely, as I would say, carefree to our specifics and to cultural creators in general. He's missing a whole bunch of facts. The fact that the Slovenian cultural market is too small to be a marketable book activity. The fact that our public space is under threat. Virtually all newspapers deal with liquidity problems all the time. Those who have been commissioned for many years can see how from year to year a cheaper copy comes with fewer sheets and more advertisements, because they simply fight bloodyly, so that they will survive because their number of subscribers is falling separately, after news items have moved onto the Internet. Our film potential is untapped. We have as much budget for the entire Slovenian film as Germany spends for one average feature. Our film directors and creators, after making some prestige at home, are simply forced to go with the belly behind the bread, because they will not get the project here for several years. Then we have a theatre of performing art, an event sector that doesn't know how it's going to survive the next few months at all. In fact, okay masks from now on are no longer mandatory, but mass events are no longer mandatory, but mass events are not allowed and creators wonder what they will do. If there were no amendments to the Government, which would now extend the measures to other sectors not only for tourism up to 30. 06. it would also be a big question for them how they would survive, say, for self-employed people in culture, how they would survive after 01 at all. 06th and waiting for that answer. Unfortunately, we can't understand it in the third crown of the package. In short, there are entire sectors and thousands of employees and self-employed people in Slovenia who do not know what will happen after 30. 06. Another thing I'd like to mention is health. The government has decided to raise the maximum expenditure in the budget by a good 2 billion, the central budget threshold has gone from 10 billion and a half to 12 billion, but nothing has raised the funds for health care. Why is that a problem? Now health care has not been in operation since mid-March during quarantine. All non-necessary operations, interventions, checks have been postponed and will fall to the second half of the year, which means that the demand for health services will increase from then on and will increase the costs of public institutions and the costs of the Health Insurance Office. On the other hand, the health allowance will be reduced. Unemployment is already on the rise. Those who are on hold are paid or paid only 80 % of their contributions by the Government and not 100 % by the Director of the Suselj Health Insurance Institute have already said that the health cash will not be reduced or that the money will begin to fall. What will be the result if there is no possibility of a hole being patched up from the budget? The result will be that it will be necessary to break down or simply intervene in the operation in the last months of this year because the money will run out or, as Suselj mentioned, and where I think the government is going to have to break the basket of rights is said to be part of the rights that now belong to all of us universally after basic insurance. They talk about ocular services, all dental services about non-emergency hospital transport, even in hospital meals. This means that we will have more and more public health care, and that we will have more and more healthcare services that we will not be able to buy or supply with a medical card, but we will go to the doctor with a bank card, and this is another feature that the crown of the law does not refer to, even though in Levika we are warning about it with both the amendment and the emergency meeting next week. Health care is the moment before he runs out of money in the second half, and we all know that, including Minister Gantar, who mentioned it himself. But the Crown does not refer to this unless our amendment is adopted. Now the last thing he would mention is development. In fact, this crisis and the situation that we have found ourselves in is an exceptional opportunity for Slovenia's development model to slightly reverse or bridge up those things and those investments that have long been talked about with no money. We have a railway network that has been undernourished and where practically for 20 years there have been no serious investments in many major Slovenian sites still drive unelectrified single railways and the result is desperate passenger traffic or desperate passenger service. From Ljubljana to Maribor you drive longer than, I once counted from Brussels to London. Even if you have to go under the sea. And if the government brought before us a project to modernise Slovenian railways, of course we would support it. Then we have hospitals. According to some data, 80 % of the hospital’s capacity is maintained and money for its investments is always running out. Then we have the DSO, the House of Senior Citizens. Ten thousand people are waiting for a bed in nursing homes, and we are still waiting for a private initiative to build it, even though we have been waiting for it for almost 15 years since the governments decided to leave this segment to a private initiative. I say, for example, these three hospitals, the railway network and homes for the elderly because, if everything goes well, the government or Slovenia will be able to obtain more than €5 billion from the European Union in a short time, of which a good deal can be used for these investments. But I doubt that the Government will go in this direction and the reason for my doubts is that there are no such projects mentioned, but in fact the Crown Law removes natural protection and environmental organisations from administrative procedures, and the reason is most likely that the Government is trying to open doors to dirty industrial projects instead of investing in the necessary investments in hospitals, railway networks, homes for older people, which we have been waiting for decades, which are not threatening to the environment and health of the population, but vice versa, they are strengthening, but we will obviously be waiting for these investments for decades, because we will be the only idea that the Government has now, how to return things to the old rails, to the old development model and complete those projects that have now been somewhat on the side track due to environmental controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u187	Thank you. Someone else at 2nd. [[No, no, ……]] My friend Runk.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. I will continue to look at the whole, and I will also somehow relate to what Luke said before me, after all, we are both the left opposition together. This morning, when I was driving to Shiška, there was this piece on the radio, Nana Milicinski, and I remembered a part of the refrain that goes something like this, "If you want to have money, use the head of the elbow". Little did I miss that award-winning company from Prekmurje, from Lendava, my colleague Horvat would probably tell me when they said very nicely that we should work in Slovenia with our heads, less hands, which doesn't mean that manual skills don't matter, but you know, with our hands we can work, I don't know, toothpicks, but we can't exactly "behave" GDP on them, or "scruff" robots after all, but in between. Or microsatellite when we work with neighbors on the Koroška road in Maribor. I hope that this microsatellite will finally be in space in due course. And I can't see these thoughts, which would now be more than necessary. Now, frankly, in this government, and here, the only ones here are present, probably even with the least joy to go to this government, are from the NSI. This government is a government of looting. After all, if you talk to people, even from the yellow blue where they say, Janša says concrete, build, but not concrete, build in the way that Luke spoke before me. Now, I'm afraid that some of the data for the second quarter will be even worse than that for the first quarter that the SURS has put out, unless, of course, the new directors are able to get them to do their hairs afterwards. But you know, in the crisis, one key question is, of course, how to encourage development, how to accelerate consumption. Do you know what some kind of information is? As early as the first three months of this year, population consumption seems to have dropped by 6%. That information came out today. What does that mean? Well, I have to say, as we say in White Krajina, Charec is also worth his beatings, but people have already felt some fear and it will be some government that I'm afraid of, frankly, when I'm 13. Jansho warned him to be reasonable, I thought, come on, maybe it'll be half as crazy as it is today and why people are cycling around. And you know, it's kind of scary. [[?]] , the pressure has already shown itself in the consumption of the population, at the time of the extension of this government. But you know, in some government, it's really pathetic for me to listen, the top of the coalition met at Brdo pri Kranj. But you know, sometimes in theology, they were serious about how many angels came to the top of the beech. This top of the coalition is a single-person S.P. that we know of a name and surname. And if anything is not a policy for the crisis, and for the 21st century, it is not a policy of idolatry, but a single mind, which is just another term for non-thinking. And the problem with all the parties of the Slovenian Parliament is that they work too little on staff. Even the more serious ones, that's what I've been fighting about in Levica a lot, and there's actually this problem with you, that even if you wanted to get inside your pool, you'd drive away if you were thinking with your own head. A fine example of SDS is the current second person of our key institute, Joseph Štefan, because we know why you stabbed her. Slovenia has $2 million and you can't speak at all because we're a little bit bigger than Iceland. Now we have a combination of what? We have a combination of something called war profit, we'll talk about it another time, and we also have a non-thinking opinion, wait, why are we giving these pennies in the first place? But we give them what Nana Milczynski sings, to use our heads or to muffle, I don't know, trainers are SDS business, what else is the business of a cousin of someone else, and at the same time in the crisis you have to think about the cost of everyday life. And this sheepdog myself, I personally think it should be some kind of UTD attempt. Now we can think but we all get it in a way of balancing, whether we are certain enough still to not need it to go again, admit it, it pisses me off, not because of that, I will somehow make sure that my children are worth half a quarter of a man or who would say a quarter of a man and a woman if I paraphrase one of the customers. [[Incomprehensible]] That's not funny. That sounds grotesque to me. But I find it even more grotesque to know that, while you are silent, most of the academy from which I came, the educated, are silent, I do not know the economist, but wait, and who is John Janša, a 60-year-old who will not change, I mean, I'm more afraid of the horse here behind the parliament, because I feel sorry for him because he has to be here than this man. And that is also, of course, because this fear is letting go or it is not, and because of this it also works for you, in my home areas they would say, “when the ass is chewing your pants”, so to speak. And there's no such thing as thinking here, and that's something we should be thinking about. How in some times that are ahead of us to reduce the cost of everyday life, because it will be an ever-increasing challenge for a great citizen and citizens. Not to touch the taxes and this last official twitt of the government about the leaks. I mean, you guys, I don't know, I had to throw up when I read that, I literally threw up. And you should be [[?]] with the crumbs with the diapers they wear to put them in your head, literally from government rooms to drive them away. You disgust me, here, after that tweet you disgust me, dot, it's over, don't go to the cafeteria when I eat, because I'm human, not a dog. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u189	Anyone else at 2nd? Comrade Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u190	Thank you very much. I thank my colleague Trček for the part he mentioned about the Golden gazelle Virs from Lendava, and I am proud, especially since I am some healthy restaurant patriot. We have heard earlier that these tourist vouchers or vouchers, as we call them, will be intended only for narrow, as it were, a narrow circle of Slovenian hotels. Now, this narrow circle, given the two million Slovenians, who will have only 210 days of time, only 210 days of time to spend these vouchers, has to be very wide. The bill shows that an average of 9,500 nights will have to be completed each day. I don't know if we have hotels. [[background advertising]] I don't know that many tourist facilities, I don't know if we have hotels with 100,000 beds. I don't know. Now there's so much of this problem that it's too small or too much, but I don't know, but we didn't give it for the travel costs. I'm a little embarrassed, Mr. President. Can the ladies chat? [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u191	My colleague, please be quiet. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u192	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, colleague, and colleague. Although I'm a little embarrassed, I'm a tourist and I don't know anything about vacations. I've only taken my family three vacations as a family. There were other priorities like the house and so on, but you are not interested now, of course, in the Slovenian public, what my stories are. It's hard, Luke's going out, but he's told us we're going to get 5.1 billion euros, look, it's just a commission proposal, God forbid this is happening. I'm sure Luke and I want to. Two-thirds will be grants, one-third will be repayments, take advantage of loans, but provided that this is confirmed by the European Council. There, however, are the most important presidents of governments or countries that are net contributors, and they will be the main word. They will say whether Slovenia will have 5.1 billion, or 750 billion, or less, they are in charge. Indeed, it will be a great happiness for Slovenia, for the state of Slovenia, if, indeed, Slovenia can, from this cake, solidarity cake, finally some solidarity cake from Europe, based on solidarity, as set by the fathers of Europe, Christian Democrats, if we actually get that money and smartly "recharge". But I can't, I can't accept the obvious when Luke says it's going to be – this 5 billion – dirty, in an ecological sense, dirty projects. He has forgotten the new rule that is in force in Europe, and this rule is, I have already repeated it today, you will not get the money if you do not preserve nature if you do not protect the environment and these funds, European, from any fund, are our only non-refundable development resources. You yourself know how complicated things are, and we have made them quite complicated, perhaps too, at home when it comes to cohesion projects and some other and key words in Europe, i.e. Slovenia, remain – climate, digitalisation, resilience. Yeah, resistance to some new epidemics, too. A tourist voucher, we must understand that this is not an instrument of social policy. In the first package, PKP1, and in the second, of course, we launched quite a few social policy instruments. I'm not gonna count because we don't have enough time. It was huge. For the first time in their lives, in this independent country, some have received universal basic income and still receive, right, and so on. This is an instrument of economic policy, but it is a concept when the coalition decided to help that segment of the economy called tourism. It's just this concept, yes, of course, now you can ask, why not the car industry? Why not some other branch? Why not agriculture? Why not culture and so on and so forth? [[…]] Of course, these are relevant questions. But then, on the other hand, when you think there's a small one, this pool of beneficiaries, too wide, you're telling me where we're gonna get the money? So it's normal for you to worry on the one hand that the economy doesn't cool down, because this economy is the one that finances the social state to give to people, to those who are at the edge of society, right, yes, even to pensioners, there were 300 thousand who got them because they have shamelessly low pensions and they needed them. Many ask why, but what has changed for them in this epidemic? Yeah, it's changed. So it is an instrument of economic policy and the coalition has chosen such a concept, details, on portability and so on, this voucher, which is actually a means of payment and will be linked to the tax number, just wanted to help the tourism segment, which represents an important segment in our gross domestic product. That's it, for now. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u193	Yes, colleague Tomić, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u194	Yeah, I have to replicate because Luke was mentioned, a couple of times, look, you're now [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Left. Okay. Yeah, just what we say and represent, please. Look, you said, but now we will get final solidarity assistance from the European Union. You have missed my discussion earlier, because the persistent push of Slovenia to the east, there, to the Multi-Citizen Group, has resulted in the fact that we have not received grants, as well as the countries of Europe, of central Europe. The grant was granted to Austria, Belgium, Ireland, Denmark, Germany. We've got the credits we're gonna have to pay back. You're very fond to show a table, but look at this chart, right? And as much as interest will be, it depends on our attitude as we behave. I also listened from Nova Slovenije in the previous term when we took a stand against privatisation and we strongly advocate in Levica that we do not privatise everything, that it does not matter who owns it. Sava hotels are in Croatian ownership, they purchase everything in Croatia, they are mostly employed, see Gorenje, who employs and forgives people. It is very important whether the owner of the Slovenian is responsible for something, or whether we sell to a foreigner who will take care of his own. And, interestingly, the first vouchers go to tourism, which will go back into the hands of strangers, that money we will give. Rest took care of his department, but Simonita didn't take care of anything, Gantar did nothing and someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u195	My colleague Tomić, this was not a replica because you said yourself that your colleague obviously missed your discussion. Now, that's enough time, I'm still picking up applications for discussion. So, Comrade Horvath, you have a debate. A colleague of Jeraj's after him.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Tomic didn't listen to me very well. I was talking about the solidarity fund. 750 billion, this is just an idea, just a proposal from the European Commission. It's not there yet. The European Council will have to bless this. I agree, we know your policy, you're in favour of nationalisation, and we're in favour of privatisation. So these things are completely understandable to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u197	My colleague Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. So the feeling after this debate is that whatever this government does, it wouldn't be good enough for you. Nothing good, no real action, no real proposals. You'd do it all better. But when you had a chance to do better and something to fix it, it didn't happen. Now that you're in the opposition, you have a lot of ideas, full of advice, full of, I don't know where you're taking some, amazingly everything, and how you'd arrange it, you'd make a social deal like this, wouldn't you? I don't know why this hasn't happened in all these years. Your colleagues from SD have been running the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs for all these years, and now he's accusing himself of not doing everything, and we should have done it in these two months. Now the ones you're talking to, especially with the Left. Bones help tourism. We just want tourism to live as soon as possible. Tourist workers and businesses explain that they have difficulty not having reservations. Normally, like all other segments, this is where this crown is known or stopped in all these two months and a half. But the purpose of the vouchers is to help tourism. We can't turn you into money now as proposed by our colleague Luke, and we'll buy food. I mean, be serious, come on. For this we have other instruments, for this we have money social assistance, a regressive lunch and so on, but here you're explaining that people are hungry and now they're going to have to lafade because they got vouchers instead of buying themselves to eat. I mean, it's like talking about us being, I don't know, in Venezuela, who really don't have people to eat. So it seems to me that you have mixed up the law that wants to help the economy, the companies of tourism, with some social policy that we have, and it is only right that we pay attention to all those who, in fact, do their job or because they cannot work, cannot earn enough to live a decent life. This is certainly a concern of the state and we must worry about it, but this measure that we are talking about is not meant to do so. For this we have a whole bunch of other instruments and other options – children's allowances and so on, social assistance and so on. Now we're going to mix it all up here and deal with it and explain that people don't have food, and we're sending it to the sea and to hotels. I mean, let's be serious. Now, there's been a lot of talking about how it's going to get abused, how it's going to cheat. I don't know if you're on your own, or how? Most people, I believe, in this country, are honest and will do things the way they were supposed to. But we always have someone looking for a perimeter and trying to cheat, but it takes control. Those who are already raising prices and who have experienced the disaster very quickly and are now all apologizing for their mistakes and so on. But I hope that people will punish them, and then they won't go there, because that's, then, the biggest punishment for the one who wanted to abuse something and do something different than was intended. However, I believe that most people, therefore, and those who are going to benefit from it with a fair purpose. Now, on the average, they're going to accuse them of cheating and not knowing what they're going to do and what they're going to do and what they're going to do. If most of what is meant to be used in tourist facilities is to help tourism more directly than if they were given a few thousand euros to be at home instead of being "crowded" all together. Plus, what my buddy Duck used to say, that's out of everyone's hands, I'm gonna say normal conversation or something. It's amazing what we learn every day from SDS, what he knows. He's serving us every time he's talking to someone and he's told him this and that and he's pissing us off here and he's hurting us and so on. Things don't deserve a word of an answer, but look to him to deal with his client, the one he got out of, the one he's in now and not to deal with us. If he's talking about government, don't tell us what we wrote on Twitter. Government Twitter answers that. I'm only responsible for those tweets that I write, I've told you a hundred times and not us, just keep serving everything that someone tweets. Don't read it if it's that hard. You don't have to do this. But not us, then here to accuse you of every time something doesn't suit you and you think something's wrong. In short, I support the proposals that are in marriage. Sometimes you can't even call the deaf all things. Remember that we are [[a sign for the end of the debate.]] Have waited at home even during the SD government, and the measure did not work the way you wanted. You predicted 200 million was spent in the end and I think 40, but you were looking for a solution that would at that moment address the problem that was created and similar to what this government is doing. I am sure and we can already see after the first two packages that the measures are working, even though we do not think so.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD and Levica groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? My friend Josie Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u200	For Article 8 of the amendment proposed by the LMŠ, SD and Levica Members' Group, of course, to be deleted. Why? Explanation. The Article provides for a derogation from the Decisions of the Law on Infectious Diseases as regards the determination and definition of quarantine. According to the proposal, the Minister of Health or an authorised person would be quarantined without the previous proposal of the Institute for the Protection of Health of the Republic of Slovenia, as provided for in Article 19(2) of the Law on Infectious Diseases, without the first period for this area. It is not clear from the explanation why such a measure would be necessary. Quarantine means the restriction of free movement and the decision of compulsory health checks to healthy persons who have been or are suspected to have been in contact with someone who is infected with a particular disease. The Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out that in the case of an arrangement excluding a preliminary proposal to the Minister of Quarantine, an expert body, which has until now served as a proposing body and for which the applicable Law on Infectious Diseases also lays down important technical tasks in other provisions. Last but not least, today we know what's causing quarantine. The cessation of economic and social life, several steps, several years of economic downturn, psychological trauma and disease, on the other hand, I am sure, even more evil than we now have with these measures. Because we believe that the proposal for a quarantine should be submitted by the profession and not by the Minister himself we are proposing that this Article 8 be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Anyone else? My friend Runk.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. See, Twitter Government of the Republic of Slovenia official channel of information to the Government, which is the Government of all of us and also ministers of the Government are ministers of all of us, not as Mr. Hojs says in an interview in the Reporter, but that he tweets for those 25% of the potential elective body of the SDS. But if we had a majority government, I'd tweet 50%. In short, what is written on Twitter by the Government of Slovenia, which is a child, as Bako said beautifully before when we debated outside, the National Assembly. The government is called the National Assembly. And then says the lady who pressed for this government, that she had nothing to do with it, and that I should not read it. I don't use Twitter. I'm one of the few Members of Parliament. I said in 2014, I won't be on Twitter, because if I'm in the National Assembly because I'm teaching these things after all, and because I have something better to do in my life, I'm going to be pinging-ponging with Janez Janša on Twitter. I'm not lying, mate. What your colleagues say I say here. After all, there is a colleague from your party sitting here who said to me, "Ah, because more, because we are not actually a customer, we are a private company of one person.", end of quote. It's that simple, but you know. One of you needs wiretaps, and one of us knows that the best source of information against intelligence is a man if you catch him on the right foot. And in these moments instead of dealing with health challenges, because we're probably so healthy in the head that we don't want anything wrong with each other in the field of health. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u203	We're a colleague at Article 8. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u204	Because now we have a minus. [[…]] We'll have over 200 million minus in the health register, if not more, you know. Give you some of yours, I don't know, have an auto-reflex. Janez Janša, who is visiting on one side in sheep's clothing on RTV, is the same person born on the same date as John Janša, whom those who cycle say, “Twito” and who insults us all in a row. And I'm going to end up with this, but there's a member of your party outside threatening to sue me for comparing one of you to acting like a monkey. I declare in my magnetogram that I insulted apes with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u205	Comrade Duck, everyone else, I suggest you focus a little bit on what we're dealing with today. We're at Article 8. Anyone else want to say anything about Article 8 and Amendment LMSH? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus parliamentary groups. Does anyone want to discuss this? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 10 of this amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the members of the Left and the LMŠ. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I am putting to the debate Article 17 and the amendment of the members of the Left and the LMŠ. There's no desire to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. Since the amendments of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Articles 26 and 36 are substantively related, we will discuss them together. I therefore put to the debate paragraphs 26 and 36 and the two amendments of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB groups. The amendment of the Left Group, the amendment of the SAB Group of Members and the two amendments of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Comrade Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will discuss the amendment to Article 26 - the amendment of the coalition. As I have already said today, I stress that I am extremely pleased that we have succeeded together with the Minister, the only King among ministers and, of course, the Government as a collective body, that we have substantially extended the circle of beneficiaries with this amendment to Article 26. If you are looking at an updated bill, there you will see some 26 activities listed in accordance with the 2008 SKD, this is a standard classification of activities, this is now out and only Article 1 or the first paragraphs, if I read it, will all be clear that the right to a partial refund measure will be paid to workers on temporary waiting for work by every employer in Slovenia. Any employer in Slovenia who is temporarily unable to provide work due to the consequences of the epidemic. There are, of course, some outstanding things that are actually already in the complementary proposal of the law. It is therefore a measure that is amended to apply to all employers, except once again, the tax exemptions listed and not only to employers in the field of catering and tourism. I can say that this article is here today in this consideration of the most powerful, and as far as I am concerned, it makes me most happy. Thank you very much. Support granted.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u207	Thank you very much. My friend Vojko Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. I also thank you, if I have understood correctly, my colleague Jožet Horvat, if they have brought this matter into the law or the minister, our comment has been on the activity of renting and leasing watercraft. And maybe now, on this occasion, I'll explain a little bit why we went, but that's taken if I got it right. I'm just saying, where did this initiative come from? When I asked around, no one was able to answer either at a night meeting or later, today what I was asking about where we have in one pile, in one place the highest accommodation capacity. We forget the sea. We have two marinas bigger, one is in Isola, one is in Portorož, both have about 700 berths, on each boat is average, because there are different sailboats now, the third is about on average five you are lying there, some are larger have ten, the smaller have three, and if you add up, there are 3 thousand 500 after each marina bed, capacity. So we can forget about the sea, we have forgotten in the past, when I concluded my law study, in Slovenia the law was also adopted, I say, this is in the 1970s, the Water Act was adopted in Slovenia. And they forgot about the sea and then they wrote the sea two more articles inside that we found that the Slovenians have the sea because we only have Slovenians after II. World War II, we didn't officially have it in our country before. Well, in these two marinas we have only three or four more, one not, perhaps living charterists who rent boats so you can rent a boat where you can sleep, live up and sail through the Slovenian sea too. You're going out. And this is a great holiday, and one such boat, let's say, with six beds just outside the season, there's a thousand euros a week, which when we divide into days and divide into number of beds, comes only 20 euros on the bed. This is also an affordable and beautiful trip. Slovenians, we seriously forget about the sea and here we are, here we are, here we are, I asked, everyone told me, including Restoring, Minister, I said, so as far as you could just think of hotels, you forgot that we have these accommodations and we only have three more living, we've lost the general voyage. But we do have a transport college where the sea is heading. We have lost the fishing vessels they have cut because Europe has paid us, the European Community, that we no longer have fishing vessels. You know where one nice thing is, I would really like to invite you and say, one village is, which is a big village away from Trieste, called the Cross. There, if you walk through this Cross, you only hear Slovenian. And in this Cross, these Slovenians, the natives, have also built a fishing museum. And when you go to this fishing museum you'll see what an old tradition is of maritimeism. Let's think about the sea and give these three other living companies, four living companies, when they borrow, they fail, and you know why there were so many more? We charterists have the highest tax. In Croatia they have half the lower because they are reduced, as do hotelers, as well as for catering services. Thus, we are already losing our maritime tradition, maritime tradition and that, that we do not have the possibility that this is not included, that when a family goes to bed with a wolf, when 20 euros goes to bed, it goes to such a boat for the weekend, even with the wolves. Why don't we just let it happen? And it's actually a setup. You have to sign up, the crew is reported for control, when the colleague had a lot to say how important it is, all of this is controlled and completely clear and there can be no “cats”. Let's help these other ships. But these individual ones, which is this charterist has, what I know, this one, has 16 of these boats on which, they have, have a little bit bigger, 10 beds, you have 160 beds, it's like a solid big hotel. And they really had a hard time living now for this previous thing he suggested, what he said and what the coalition has to say about the amendment is good and it will help, let's give them more help. However, they were not granted credit because they did not belong to this classification. They couldn't reach them. I mean, deferral of credits because some boats have taken credit and there's a lot of trouble. Let's help our marines, what we have left to survive, so I ask all Members to support this, then in Article 37, we are now at the 26th. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u209	Anyone else? No, I'm closing the debate. Since the amendments of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to Article 37 and the amendments of the same applicants to Article 83 are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. I therefore put to the debate paragraphs 37 and 83, and the two amendments of the SAB Group, the amendment of the SAB, SD and the Left, the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Ambassadors, the amendment of the Left Group of Ambassadors and the two amendments of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS groups. Anybody want to talk? She's a colleague of Jerco Korca's.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u210	Yes, thank you very much, President. So, in Article 37 of the Charter of Marjan Šarc, we are making an amendment, raising a tourist voucher of EUR 200 as proposed for EUR 400. Why? Because we estimate that EUR 400 per adult and EUR 50 per child is a reasonable amount, or some appropriate amount, at which people could actually afford normal holidays and thereby increase domestic consumption and revive the tourism industry. And on the other hand, we are introducing a monthly base income of EUR 100. Why does this seem important to us? Because this also allows for an impact on some social status of people. Last but not least, if someone takes a holiday, they will be able to afford a guest service or attend a cultural event, because we know that the Government has also released cultural people and we believe that this monthly basic income is the right direction and we hope that all Members will be supported here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u211	Anyone else? My friend Vojko Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u212	Thank you. Once again, I take my word for it. We are present twice at Article 37; once again we are a group with other opposition parties, as already discussed by my colleague Bandelli, so that it would not be repeated, but it is a matter of preventing people from paying twice differently, whether they pay with a voucher or pay with money, which has already occurred. This is one matter, the other to issue after another, after 50 euros and the third, so that we can use it for both culture and cultural events. The other is what I was saying, that I will not repeat what I said at Article 26, that is, one bunch of accommodations when we have them, let us admit that we have the sea and that you can also stay at sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The next Mrs Jerca has an apology, Mr Marko Bandelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u214	Thank you, Madam President. In Article 37, I will say again, practically with the amendment, the possibility of using a voucher is also introduced to promote consumption in the field of cultural activities. The latter are among the more affected activities at the time of the epidemic, while at the same time the cultural sector has received the least measures and assistance. We are now adding with the amendment the possibility of using vouchers in catering establishments and tourist farms without rooms. Like accommodation facilities, the hospitality activity has experienced a huge decline in income and therefore needs further encouragement to restart this activity. An important aspect of this amendment that is changing is the payment of the voucher in points [[?]] As we said after €50, it is thus ensured that the vouchers can be used in a wider range of services of their own choice. What we have changed in the amendment, I have seen that a new amendment of the coalition has come and I think that they have accepted what we have written here too, that service providers must pay all guests, regardless of how the use of the voucher is paid or not, charge their services at the same price and act in accordance with the law governing consumer protection, as we have seen on the media, that the benefits are already being used, and I have seen that you have already added this to a new amendment in your amendment. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Dr. Duck signed up for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u216	Thank you. See, in essence, this article, as I said earlier, defines the only amendment of the opposition that was adopted by the Committee only as an address. And also what Comrade Marko said, some of today's statements by Minister Restoration are, the buyer is the king, the buyer will decide, no, there is also a need for regulation, and at the same time some Styrian innkeeper reports that he is already fishing fish, but that he does not have a pond. And since I'm speaking, a member of the SDS had previously wised me not to deal with the SDS, to leave him alone. At the end of the world, however, it is for me to deal with SDS, except in the part where it harms the Republic of Slovenia. But if I look at some media, I don't know if you're a member of democracy and NovaTV, but he's so busy with SD and Levica, and I actually thank you for this free advertising for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? If not, I am closing the debate and moving on to Article 42. I therefore put to the debate Article 42 and the amendments of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 57 and the amendments of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 59 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD and Levica groups of Members. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 64 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD and Levica groups of Members. Anybody want a word? Mr. Kovacich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u218	Thank you for the president's word. This is about student diet, because it is actually the government, I will merge, forget two things or it is a well-intentioned hotel and actually in my opinion it has done quite a bit of damage. Here, when we talk about student diet, the government is proposing to extend the invitation to tender, which at first sight is very good and also attractive. However, we must be aware that many inns have not actually been operating since mid-March. Especially those who have student certificates, students are not in Ljubljana, not Maribor and not in any city where there is some university education. The inn, the innkeepers who only spend these student vouchers, will in fact be completely closed by September. A lot of these, they're gonna close the door, they're actually going to fail, and in fact, it's going to be a big damage. That is why I say that at first glance it is very attractive to extend this matter, but the problem is that all new guests who would like to apply for the invitation are not allowed to do so. Therefore, despite the extension of this, we are proposing an amendment so that all those who wish to rejoin it will also be able to do so. It is similar then with the scholarships themselves, because somehow you said, in Zois' scholarships, that extraordinary achievements for the study year are not taken into account, which is somewhat at odds with the logic represented by this Government, is also said to be the Minister of Education, Science and Sports, who says that the current school year is completely normal and valid. So if the school year, both primary school students and students, is completely unchanged for them, I see no reason why these extraordinary achievements should not be taken into account. Now, the coalition is when you reject this amendment of ours, on the board, now put a new one, where else, you go a little bit closer to us, but, taking into account only one indent, you say, scientific achievements, but we don't see the reasons why not all of them, I think, five or six indents, actually all of them, school competitions, because, if this isn't accepted, you'll actually put students in between, and students, for first and second class, at least to some of those students and students who have made extraordinary achievements in this school, you'll actually take away their scholarships.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 67, as well as the amendments of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus, as well as the amendments of the LMŠ, SD and Levica groups, to the title of Sub-section 7.4. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] No, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 68, as well as the amendments of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus. Mr. Horvath wants the word first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Now, this amendment, that in fact at the last moment was in line with the Government, at this point, I must thank Minister Matthew Tonin, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence; Damian Jaklin, and, of course, the Director General of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection and Rescue; Mr Dark Booth, who did not forget the voluntary and non-professional performance of the tasks, at the time of the epidemic. This is an article defining the hazard allowance and the specific loads. We all know that our Slovenian volunteers are worthy of honor and are one of the great wealth of this country and it is therefore right that we have not forgotten them. Of course, they carried out the public service tasks of protection, rescue and assistance as defined in Article 74, paragraph 1, of the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, and I think we all agree that it is right for them to receive at least some symbolic monetary reward. Of course, it is firefighting companies, or, sorry, it is a fire service carried out by fire brigades, in accordance with the fire regulations, a mountain rescue service carried out by mountain rescue stations and so on. It is a matter of Jamaican rescue companies, it is a matter of underwater rescue companies and, of course, it is also a service for protection and rescue in the event of environmental and other marine disasters organised by local communities and by the State. So, as far as New Slovenia is concerned, normally, if we have already signed this amendment, we will also support it and I believe that it will receive unanimous support in this Assembly today, in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mrs Matey Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. I won't repeat myself. With my previous colleague, who I must attach to him, we will be happy to support the amendment in the Modern Centre Party, but I would like to say that many times, many officials, are very happy to be photographed with voluntary firefighters, paramedics and similar organisations. We hear many times from officials at various events how they will actually stand up for them, how they will stand by them when they need them most, but the fact is, if we stand by ourselves, this does not mean that we have actually given them. And the question is, are these officials really going to do anything for them? In this very short time, I myself, when I am a Member of Parliament, for firefighters and similar organisations, have very often not only taken over, but I have already done something, and I will do much more. And when I was informed on Wednesday by the President of the Association of Firefighters of Slovenia and the Commander of the Association of Firefighters of Article 68, I immediately joined the action and, in fact, on Wednesday evening, we immediately warned the Committee that the change was essential that firefighters, volunteer firefighters, mountain rescuers, rescuers, Jamaican rescue workers working on interventions during the COVID epidemic were also entitled to the supplement. This is not a payment for their work, but it is only a reward, it is only a symbolic reward that the state has not forgotten about them at a time when they were doing one big job instead of the state. And I didn't tell the President of the Fire Federation of Slovenia and the Commander of the Firehouse Association of Slovenia at that meeting that I would just stand up for them – no, I went into real action. And as my predecessor said, the action to complete it is not just up to me. For a successful action, as I have said many times today, we must all come together. And also the introduction of the amendment was the fruit of the joint action, which today, in order to do so, lasted even this morning for us to succeed. That is why I would like to thank everyone here publicly for their constructive cooperation and, in particular, Minister Matthew Tonin and Secretary of State Vinkot Gorenak, who offered me, today I think I wrote to Matthew Tonin when I couldn't call him to account for a minute and he called me to ask that we could, together with the coalition Members, table the proposed amendments. Today's vote on this amendment will show whether we stand up or really support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovacic has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u224	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Yeah, I agree with my colleague that when someone turns on you, it's nice to go into action. We also received several calls from opposition parties and several comments from various associations and went into action on our own. That's why we tabled so many amendments, isn't it? And I hope, like my colleague, that this amendment will show who is behind it and who is behind it, that it will show whether it is for all groups or not in other of our amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? If not, I'm closing the debate. And I am putting to the debate Article 77 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 79a and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 84 and the amendment of the Levica Group of Members. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 85 and the amendment of the SD, SMC, NSI and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 87 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS parliamentary groups. I'm closing the debate. All amendments will be decided in 15 minutes in the framework of the vote. I hereby end this point and the 38th extraordinary session, which will be resumed by the vote at 8:30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 20.16.) (The sitting resumed at 8:30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u226	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. I inform you that we will vote in the following order, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the first item of the agenda – third reading of the Proposal for a Law on guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Instrument for Temporary Support for the Reduction of the Risks of Unemployment in Emergency Situations (SURE) after the outbreak of COVID-19, urgent procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I'm informing you that I'm not informed that the bill would be uncoordinated. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda – second reading of the Proposal for an Intervention Law to Eliminate Obstacles in the Implementation of Important Investments to Start the Economy After the COVID-19 Epidemic in the Emergency Process. We continue to decide on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 29 May 2020. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 4. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 49. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and for the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill, which is the decision on the bill. I'm informing you that I'm not informed that the bill would be uncoordinated. We're voting. Explanation on behalf of the left-wing group. Cigler's buddy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! The Left will vote against the law that is now before us and is being adopted. The vote is based on the fact that the law is empty. On the other side, it's full. In particular, this law will result in a free hand for capital, to create profits and to destroy nature, the environment in Slovenia, contrary to the direction of this country and contrary to the interests of the people to represent me in this National Assembly. At the same time, the attack on basic organisms and institutions of democracy in our country, especially in the area of environmental protection and the protection of space, which has been carried out in Slovenia for many years by NGOs and the future of Slovenia, will obviously depend on the interests and decisions of capital, the short-term profit on which projects this will be created, but this National Assembly today, yesterday and in the past, when the Crown laws are passed, has spoken. The proposed law is, in the opinion of the Left, a Bianca coin of Janshism and is against it, and it is against what people today are protesting in front of the National Assembly. It is against the destruction of the environment, against the repression of individuals who hope to express their opinion on Janshism and is against taking the first word in Slovenia instead of the voice of the people and our decision on their behalf practically profit. That is why we will vote against this law in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u228	We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 14. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the law has been passed. That concludes this point. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda – second reading of the draft law on intervention measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of the COVID-19 epidemic in the context of the urgent procedure. We continue to decide on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled, of 29 May 2020, with the designation NOVO. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments of the Group of Members of the Left, the LMŠ and the SD to Article 2. Comrade Siter, explanation of vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u229	So, on behalf of the Group of Members, thank you very much for the word. Now, respected colleagues and colleagues, this law should serve people and the economy. This is the main mantra with which the government sells it. But Article 2 of this Act, in decision-making procedures on environmental interventions, cuts people off. He cuts off the whole public, and he serves everyone else. It serves to sell natural resources for quick profit, it serves the collapse of health, it serves the collapse of entire communities, so to speak. He has no other purpose. That it is driven by every logic of long-term thinking and planning, has been warned by many environmental organisations, protestors in the market in front of the National Assembly warn at this moment, 15 thousand of them and [[…]] [[Restlessness and laughter in the hall]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u230	Well, well. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u231	and warns the petition online, which to this day has numbered 30,000 [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u232	A little silence, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u233	signatures. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u234	A little silence.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u235	How will you, Government, explain to the farmers how you will look them in the eye when you concrete their courtyards and not be allowed to complain? How are you going to get through the back entrance of the National Assembly today? This action, [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] This measure [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u236	A little quiet, fellas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u237	is the most, [[…]] [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] This measure is the gravest representation of the fact that this government has been sold. [[…]] At a time when the whole world understands that we are on the verge of climate breaking, that every square centimeter of this planet must be protected, this government is selling the country to “friends” in the concrete mafia. This article deserves only one. Going to the worst of political history, if we do not destroy this harmful article, you will destroy what is most beautiful in the country and we will never be able to sing, Slovenia from where your beauty is. We oppose such an article and propose an amendment that is very simple and says: “This article is deleted.”
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Colleague Divac Mirnik, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Article 75 of the Rules of Procedure now states that the chairman shall be responsible for the order of the meeting. I know that we are not all the same politicians, in LMŠ we do not yell here in these benches, we do not say “bu”, nor do we condemn what other colleagues say and ask you politely to ensure order at the meeting. If colleague Siter discusses the amendment tabled by the three groups of Members, then I expect from you that if you are not already interested in it, at least you are pretending to be interested and simply respectful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u240	Dear fellows! I hope that further explanations of vote will take place as calmly as possible. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group first? On your own? First of all, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u241	Thank you for your word, chairman. Since 13 March, we can monitor how a soft coup takes place in Slovenia. Under the cover of the epidemic, the far right government of Janez Janša is attacking the police, the media, parliament, the budget, but at today's meeting, it is also impacting the environment. For power, fracking takes precedence over renewable resources, highway from the railroad, paint shop from the groundwater. Contaminated rivers, polluted earth, dirty air, poor human health and communities are acceptable to them victims on the altar of investor profit. Today, 15,000 people lined up in front of the National Assembly on bicycles. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Thirty thousand people signed a petition of naturalists. We've heard it in the Left, we've tabled an amendment to delete the article that eliminates environmental protection. We will support this amendment. Helping people, preserving the environment, dying of fascism and freedom of the nation. Cin, cin.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u242	My friend Duck has an explanation in his own name? A little silence.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u243	Thank you for your word. I don't know if we still have a Constitution in this country or not, if we still have an article that is deleted in Articles 70 to 73, go read it again, so I'm going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u244	We're voting. An explanation? I interrupt, colleague Tomić, the explanation of vote under Article 2. You have the floor, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u245	Thank you for your word. I would ask you to listen to our arguments, even though I know that the coalition roller will overrun all the arguments because you don't hear and you don't see the obvious things. Okay, you don't see 15,000 bikers and protestors, you just can't see them, okay? You do not see the 30,000 signatures that support essentially our amendment and this criminal article 2 which gives corporations and the dirty industry the right to a healthy living environment before the right of Slovenes and Slovenians. Shame on you, for how you will actually look citizens and citizens in the eyes when they will have to live in poisoned air with poisoned land and water. You know, the way I've been here in the National Assembly for the last two, three months is terrible. You were in the opposition, we were in the opposition, we were respectful, and we were respected. Since he took the power of Janšizem, and to clarify, there are people closing and taking posters of the death of Janšism, let us look at the dictionary of the Slovenian language and learn Slovenian. Death, to whom or to what? Me, for what? Janshism, to whom - I'd say - a person. So let's stop manipulating people. And nature conservation is so important for the whole world and only Slovenians with one medieval old mindset of the Slovenian right do the opposite. In April, we exceeded the capacity of the Earth, the planetary capabilities, the Earth is our only mother. What will you give your children to eat? Paper broths [[End of discussion warning sign]] or shares? I absolutely support our amendment that this horrendous crime is deleted and unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u246	Colleague Natasha Sukić, on her own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Chairman. Look, the fact is, you predicted a war of nature. Along with the concrete mafia instead of building railroads build, expand the rails, build the curbs, not just around Ljubljana Or I can do this again, the chairman see [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u248	Just a little quiet, please, if we don't stop.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u249	[[advertising from the hall]] . Also time from the beginning [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u250	Please give me time from the beginning. I can't do this. [[…]] [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u251	Look, I'm begging you. Let's just calm down a little bit. Also, I'm asking you to take your time and give your colleague one minute. I'm going to say, some of the reactions of a large number of Members are completely normal. I suggest, however, that after he calms down or that such a reaction calms down as soon as possible and that you let your colleagues continue and that you do not waste his time. I suggest you proceed, colleague Sukich. Did you fix the time?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u252	Once again, I would like to ask briefly, as I said, you have announced a war of nature, you are opening the door wide to dirty capital, which will no longer have control, along with the concrete mafia, instead of building, instead of building railways, you are expanding and building fences and not only bypasses around Ljubljana and around other cities, but also bypassing the laws and past the Constitution with such moves. [[…]] As the environmental, environmental activist, from the Balkan River Defence, said, there is uncontrolled access to nature and natural resources, the sale of the nature of capital, partly Slovenian and mostly foreign, as we have the case, will take place in Anhovem. We're going to get naked forests instead of lively rivers, we're going to get dead accumulations. We will experience a “fracking” in Petišovci, Prekmurje, with new motorway legs drawn across the most beautiful meadows, across the most quality land. We'll get even bigger shopping centers, new Magnes and so on and so on. This is what we do when we remove the guards, the guards that were, whose messenger, [[sign for the end of the debate]] NGOs have been keeping an eye on things at least around here, in this country, being legal. Now it won't be. Under the pretext of removing administrative barriers, you have, in fact, identified NGOs as an administrative obstacle and disabled them with your administrative obstacles to it. So, of course, I will absolutely support our amendment. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u253	Thank you. The word is from a fellow Brickman.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, not only in Ljubljana, such an opinion as the amendment of the Left, is heard from the mouth in Maribor, citizens and citizens in Maribor, in Velenj, in Koper, in Celje, in Anhovem, because, to be aware of the need and so I think, at least personally, that we in this National Assembly have been elected by voters and voters to represent their well-being, their prosperity, their green Slovenia. We, in the National Assembly, have not put up capital because of its short-term interests, which will appear mainly in the destruction of green Slovenia and in the destruction of democracy and the National Assembly, must decide on behalf of citizens, in their behalf and in the interests of future generations. How you will look into the eyes of your children and grandchildren, through Slovenia, which will be created, as long as the investments we have heard about these days begin, in the National Assembly, which will go through the most fertile land, through forests, will destroy water, drinking water, rivers and streams in Slovenia. Will you vote for that? Is that why you're here? [[sign for the end of the debate]] Get a term in the election? I am not, and I will vote for the amendment of the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u255	My colleague Korazi has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u256	Your Honor, thank you for your word. I will repeat again, my words from the morning session, namely, that in fact, nature or the environment cannot be divided either on the left or on the right. And clean air, healthy drinking water or clean drinking water, fertile land, um, biodiversity, can't have a political omen, and I think that here we are here, in fact, I'm going to say, we're going to go in this direction, because in fact, when we talk about how we're going to survive, in fact, it can't be a political issue, but, in fact, naturally, or how, to look into the future and also into the future, I'm going to say, safely and also to immerse. And as long as we look at nature from this point of view, as is seen today, when I have listened to these debates, or even before, your debates, it is in fact incomprehensible. [[…]] It doesn't matter whether we're left or right, or you're in the middle, see if we want to survive and live healthyly, we'll be able to cross these shackles and these thresholds and take care of nature, no matter what our political beliefs are, because, as once again, when it comes to human beings, nature and animals, they must always be ahead of capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u257	Thank you. A friend of the moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u258	Thank you for your word. Now, Slovenia is considered a green country. On all tourist postcards we sell as a green destination, with an unspoiled nature. But if we get a little closer to the map, we will see that there is a long history of industrial pollution and degraded areas in Slovenia. We often talk about them in Parliament. We have a steel boiler contaminated with zinc. We have the Mezisko Valley in Koroška. We have traces of PCB in the white landscape after 30 years still. We have cancer patients, mesothelioma in Anhove. We have countless cancers due to the burning of kerosene kerosene in Lefarg in the Rippers. And we had a recent accident in Kemis, Vrhnika, which will have long lasting consequences for the environment there. All of these are the consequences not of excessive administrative barriers to industry, but of excessive freedom of some capital, past and present. And if I go a little further, even those destinations that we put on postcards today, say, the flow of the upper Soca, was once planned in the 70s to be concrete and put hydropower plants there. And today we're most proud of it. The most popular destination in Slovenia, Lake Blejsko, look at the history, in 1782, there was a civil administrator named Ignac Novak who thought it would be wise to dry this lake and use its bottom to export clay. That is why I will vote in favour of this amendment and for the deletion of this article, because I do not want such a future. I want Slovenia to be and remain a green destination.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u259	Anyone else? No, no, no. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment of the delegations' groups Levica, LMŠ and SD to Article 2. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD and Levica parliamentary groups to Article 8. My colleague Kordesh on behalf of the Member of Parliament, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u260	Thank you for your word, chairman. Quarantine in the epidemic is a normal logical and useful thing to protect public health. Quarantine basically by definition means a restriction of movement. In Slovenia it can be announced only on the initiative of the profession, the Institute for Health Protection of the Republic of Slovenia. Fascists in power don't like this because the only science for SDS is party science. Remember, because they didn't like the positions of the profession, they had a stroke on the NIJ. Dr. Richard Knafley spoke professionally about the fans and they took him down like he was the biggest criminal. With this article, the Government and its coalition therefore transfer the power to declare the epidemic and limit the movement from the profession to the Ministry of Health in the juris dictatorship of the Ministry of Health. What that means is what we can imagine. Like everything else, John Janša will also abuse this provision. Today, 15,000 protestors are cycling in front of parliament. If this article is adopted, it may occur in anticipation of the second wave of the coronary epidemic that the Minister of Health, following the Janez Janša dictatorship, will say that the protestor is infected with the need to carry out medical examinations and quarantine procedures and that 15,000 people are sentenced to house arrest. Not because they'd be at risk in any way, but because they're politically dangerous. Because they express anti-fascist and democratic aspirations, which John Janša is, of course, not according to year. Given that in one article of this Act, the coalition opens up additional opportunities for corruption by eliminating anti-corruption guards in public procurement up to €1 million, because now that they can't just steal on masks and other acquisitions of protective equipment [[sign for the end of the debate]] They'll do it through the acquisitions of ministries. We can expect that people's anger will not calm down and will not be calmed, we know that the government of Janez Janša will soon mobilise itself to suppress democratic aspirations, to suppress transparency requirements, to suppress the idea that Slovenia can be a normal state without an extreme right in power. [[sign for the end of the debate]] In Levi, we have tabled an amendment to leave the decision to announce the quarantine and restrictions of movement in the hands of the profession, but not to transfer it exclusively to the level of political power in the hands of the Minister of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u261	Comrade Kordish, for the next such observation or animosity speaks a reminder as you have now enjoyed [[…]] [[adverts from benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u262	Yes, the Fascist Authority [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u263	I'm warning you. My friend Krivec, the explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u264	I want to go through with it. I want my colleague Kordish to apologize because the appointment of a fascist coalition is unacceptable in this National Assembly. We are very tolerant, we listen to a lot of things, but this designation does not belong in this National Assembly and I suggest that we warn him to apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u265	I warned him. My colleague Kordish, I'll give you a procedural one, but I'll tell you that if you make another similar observation, I'll take your word for it. You've got a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u266	Fascism really doesn't belong in this National Assembly. Only then I don't know what the SDS Group is doing in it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u267	Comrade Kordish, I take your word and you don't have it anymore. Any more explanations of vote at Article 8? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 48. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI to Article 9. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 10. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 0. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 0.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the left-wing groups and the LMŠ to Article 15. Comrade Siter, explanation of vote on behalf of the leftist Group?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u268	On behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you very much. I will allow myself to explain my vote for the amendments to Articles 15 and 17 because they are substantively similar or related. State aid to businesses must be intended at first stage to preserve jobs, not subsidise profits, not invest in what, not other partial interests of potential owners, but preserve jobs. This law is quite loose and disproportionate in this part. In practice, employers who receive a subsidy of 6 months for a waiting worker will be obliged to provide work after the existing one month after returning to work. Our amendment calls or calls for proportionality so much assistance on the employer’s part. If six months of assistance, then six months of responsibility for maintaining the job. However, in the event that the employer makes use of the subsidy in order to release the worker before the statutory deadline and thus the worker would suffer a social hardship, the employer will still be liable. So, fair play, as much as it helps with the responsibility. Workers are those who create added value and those who create profits, and the aid is intended primarily, once again, to preserve jobs. In the Group of the Left, because we are also co-proposers, we will support both amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u269	We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 49. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the left-wing groups and the LMŠ to Article 17. We're voting. Explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament, my colleague, on behalf of my colleague Trček. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u270	Look, thank you for your word. Once again, Article 67 of the Constitution speaks of property, which ends with the following: “It guarantees its economic, social and ecological functions.” Now I admit that on the left hand side, there are so many boogies that we are all against the economy. Most owners are also workers, workers, honest people, trying to pay in difficult circumstances, perform social functions, and certain inspectorates are also designated, including assistance which must also carry out an environmental function and hope, and let us at least take a bit of peace in the opposition to read the Constitution. I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u271	We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 48. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 26 of Sub-heading 1. If this amendment is adopted, amendments to this Article shall become irrelevant under numbers 2, 3 and 4. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the same motions to Article 36 becomes irrelevant, since these amendments are substantively linked. Comrade Korazi, on behalf of the messenger.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u272	Your Honor, thank you for your word. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I will be very brief and concise, we will support this amendment and also prove to you that it is possible to cooperate very well and to support good proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u273	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendments of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 26 to Article 1 were adopted, the amendments of SD, LMŠ, Left and SAB, the amendment of the SAB Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Levica Group to this Article under headings 2, 3, and 4 were irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 36(1). We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to Article 36(2). We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 49. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 37 under number 1. If this amendment is adopted, amendments to this Article shall become irrelevant under numbers 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 48. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SAB Group to Article 37 under Article 2. If this amendment is adopted, amendments to this Article shall become irrelevant under numbers 3, 4, 5 and 6. We're voting. There are 84 Members present, 19 votes against 51. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SAB, SD and Levica groups to Article 37(3). If this amendment is adopted, amendments to this Article shall become irrelevant under numbers 4, 5 and 6. On behalf of the House of Representatives, colleague Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u274	Thank you. With our amendment, we propose that these 200 euros can also be paid in cash, not just as a voucher. We know that a whole bunch of families are in a very difficult material situation and many will not be able to cash in a voucher and go to sea because they cannot add 100 or more euros for transport and food. So we know that it's necessary somewhere for a normal life to cover the minimum cost of living, plus 20 percent. That is why we are proposing the payment of money vouchers, which could be used by people to pay rent, for school supplies, for food, clothing and other essential necessities of life, as this would help the domestic economy even more, not only would they help tourism, but they would have huge multiplier effects that have a positive impact on overall economic growth and also on employment. Therefore, we propose that those who choose to make a decision instead of a voucher can still get money and not only tourism, because last year, the entire tourism sector has made 250 million traffic, and this action, if everyone took advantage of it, would help them with 352. This is a disproportionate measure that only focuses on one economic sector. If we are to help citizens, their basic needs must first be taken care of, and only then will those who can afford to do so go on vacation. In short, we also propose that in addition to the voucher, the payment of a voucher in money is not considered to be income in determining the rights to public funds, because we know that a lot of citizens have fallen into an even worse situation, many have lost jobs and have lost their basic means of living. So we recommend that we support ourselves if we want to help people to make the most of this, because otherwise the vouchers will not be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u275	Comrade Duck, did you want to? On your own? On behalf of the SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u276	Look, we've long ago found that tourism is not forgotten by people and the Social Democrats. In this National Assembly we have also adopted a resolution of Slovenian tourism, which is slowly expiring and somehow one would expect any government to remember it. It has been warned several times as long as it is valid, of course it is new in preparation. [[…]] It has been pointed out several times, of course, that, and the terrain tells us that as many people as you call these vouchers, vouchers, valuations, whatever you call them, we call them, to take advantage of them in some tourist destinations and so on and in some places that are not so highly touristic are also people living from this difficult sector, the economy. After all, we stood as a nation and became a nation for culture, but no. Josip Jurčič said that, the first newspaper was published in Maribor. If we can't operate on the political field, let's work on the culture field. In short, we've somehow changed our minds and captured it. More than once today, what is the state of culture, after all, what is offered and sold as tourism in Slovenia as well as culture? In some historical artifacts, both cultural landscapes and architectural urban history, say Velenje is a very beautiful example and, of course, this thought led us to contribute to this amendment, which we will vote for and to show how tourism should be thought of in the 21st century, which I hope that the 15th government, which we will also be a member of, will think much more deeply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u277	We vote, this is the amendment SAB, SD, Left to Article 37. There are 84 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 49. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SAB Group to Article 37 under Article 4. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 49. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Rule 37 under Article 5. A fellow moon on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u278	Thank you for your word. The Vouchers, who are somehow carrying the project of the pianist project of this government and this law for this summer, are unfinished. The main reason is that they are focused on only one sector and that they will not achieve their ambitions is to help the economy and help the population. We in Levica, with two amendments and other opposition parties, tried to fix this. In fact, the intention of a voucher as a kind of helicopter money should be to round up the money in the domestic economy and to help the vulnerable and vulnerable sectors as much as possible. Now we're on to the next thing. Last year, there were €250 million in foreign and domestic tourism from June to December, €250 million, sorry. With vouchers, domestic guests will receive 100 million more, says 350 million euros and I am surprised that today Zdravko Restoršek is surprised that price inflation is already happening. In fact, when people get a voucher and start luring out the accommodations, of course, the bidders will then respond to higher prices. You can't stop them from doing this either by law or by law, because this would be an intervention in a free economic initiative. Therefore, it would be only wise to accept the amendments we have proposed, on the one hand, that the voucher can also be used for other services, such as culture, culture is threatened, events are not possible, and even operators do not know when they will be able, care for the future, and it would be very sensible to give them an incentive in autumn, when we hope that they will be able to get some assistance from state helicopter money as well. On the other hand, it would be wise and this is the content of this amendment to allow people and families with lower incomes to easily convert the voucher into [[End of discussion warning sign]] The money. Everyone can't go on vacation, we're talking about people with disabilities, pensioners and so on, and the poor people won't be able to afford them with vouchers. And I don't know why the state wouldn't help them in this situation in a way that simply can people with low incomes, we said up to 728 euros per family member convert voucher into euros, spend it on paying bills, food, school supplies, whatever. [[End of discussion warning sign]] . In any case, this money will be much better rounded up in the Slovenian economy than if you subsidise accommodation at usually foreign-owned hotels. That is why, of course, we will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u279	Comrade Horvath, on behalf of the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u280	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. This amendment cannot be supported by the Group of Members, as the coordinating starting point for the applicants is clearly deleted. We have been listening to discussions all day to bring 250 million or how many million to Slovenia on an annual basis. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, you were wrong about a factor of 24 or 25. For 2018 there are precise data – €5.7 billion and 12.3% in the GDP cake Slovenia. Last year's rating, please, is €6 billion. Vachelors, estimate 345 million and a multiplier, around, an estimate of 175 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u281	Natasha Sukich, in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u282	Look, I don't know what we don't really understand here. One is that the question is whether all these sheepmen will not be able to spend, that is more than clear. [[…]] If we are interested in preserving jobs in general, then we should also look at other industries, not just tourism. And yes, traders say that in this crisis, their traffic has fallen heavily and jobs will also be lost there. The purchasing power of the inhabitants is falling. There will be a lot of new unemployed, but a lot of people will be more socially vulnerable. And if they were given the opportunity to sink these sheep into money, they would spend that money in the store and then they would go around and keep jobs, for example, in a store that is also our important industry, because it's not the only industry that's important to tourism. In short, you need to look at a little bit wider and a little bit more strategic, what's going to happen in the country, in general, not just in one sector and the only industry, although, okay, you're going to say, tourism is a parading industry, it brings so much and so much, but it's about letting this money, if it's already meant to, if you're actually going to, circle it in a way that it will help, [[sign for the end of the debate]] in the first place to people and secondly not, but important industries, not only tourism, but also trade and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u283	My friend Luke Moon, in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u284	Yes, thank you. I will also vote in favour of the amendment, because I see more when someone's mouth is full, how he understands the economy, really understands macroeconomics and is more illiterate when reading or even understanding the simplest statistics. When talking about 350 million and 250 million a year, we are not talking about the contribution of tourism to Slovenia's GDP, but about the prices of overnight stays, from July to December 2019.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u285	We're voting. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Amendment to Article 37. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 48. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 37. 6. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same applicants to Article 83. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 83 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 56 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 42. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 57. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD and Levica groups to Article 59. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 48. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD and Levica groups to Article 64. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 49. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 67 to the heading of Sub-section 7.4. No, no, no. Mr Siter, on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u286	That's it. Now we are going to that part of the law that talks about values for sports or perhaps also cultural and concert events and in the process of creating amendments something has happened to say hockey exchanges. For the government has proposed the values for sports events, and ideas have emerged on the day that the field of these values will therefore extend to concerts and cultural events, with the government coalition first agreeing. I hear your colleagues in NSa are fast because you have in your ranks one great organizer of one musical event was probably for this. Then, apparently, in some old - fashioned way, the beef came from somewhere we can think of where or from who this thing is being betrayed and narrowed down to sports events. Now here is how substantive what it is and what it means to explain in my explanation of vote the following, and in Article 67, I would just like to draw attention to this in the notes, of course, to the high level of democratic decision-making in this coalition, where obviously everything depends on one man and his silent buffet.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u287	We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 18. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD and Levica parliamentary groups to Article 67. Mr Siter, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Now it's content. The main victims of the ban on gathering in public places, due to the risk of spreading the infection, are culture and concert events. They are the first to suffer and will be the last to breathe again in some normal working rhythm. Here we are talking about all concerts and cultural events from small and village events to the previously mentioned crow “summer night” or the tolmin festival, the Ljubljana festival and so on festivals attracting dozens of thousands of visitors. Now the amendment you have on the table calls for this system of values to expand. So not just from the field of sports events, which are also mass and have suffered damage to all these cultural and musical events. The Slovenian map is full of such events. The core of Slovenia, if you want to be just cultural events, is performing art, they are culturers, they are organizers and it would make sense to remember this part of the truly creative work of everything that our culture and country is. The second thing that needs to be stressed here is the fact that this particular sector is the real concert, performance, cultural sector, regardless of the fact that it is so widely represented in Slovenia, is also the most sophisticated. I am a culturer myself, and the musician in my social circle is hundreds of people who are involved in this activity, and I can count on the fingers of one hand those who are securely employed in this area, which is provided with some social security. Here are producers, lanterns, actors, techniques, drummers, event organizers, etc. This measure, or this amendment to the dissemination of valuations, is one meaningful step in enabling each one of the approximate green branches to reach the entire population and the entire sector, which is not even negligible from an economic point of view. In the Group of the Left, we will support him, but I must point out that the vast majority of these people are standing in front of the National Assembly today waiting for the decision of all of us. The culture of the final stage is all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Procedurally, colleague of Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u290	President, I respectfully ask you to ensure that, above all, the right part of the Tribunal, while Members and Members explain their voices, tries to endure at least those three minutes in silence. This is worse than in what country, all the time our Members explain their voice or the voice of the group, there is, they chat, etc. I mean, now we can just leave these standards so low, and we'll act like it every time, but where do we get to? So I'm really asking you, if there's not enough concentration, stop the session for 15 minutes and let the air breathe.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u291	Mate Matthew Vatovec, and two minutes and a half of three, Luke Mesec spoke to Kordiš and disturbed the unrest in this part. It is true that there is a bit of a commotion in this part too, but there is nothing to be heard, so I suggest you don't overdo it. I suggest you don't go too far with Matthew. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u292	Mr. President, your double standards do not seem to know the boundaries. Things that are unacceptable are happening from the session to the meeting. I can't say a word in peace, just like since the beginning of this government. All this stuff that doesn't suit someone or they don't care, it starts talking. The fact that you're reading that a fellow moon spoke to a colleague of Kordish's is a complete nonsense. Blah was a few inches away, and they spoke silently, not out loud with comments, with problems, etc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u293	Let's calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u294	If they are watts, let them be the same vats for all, without being able on that side of the tribune, because we are really almost literally already like in the stadium, shouting, shivering, etc., and then it is not, I mean, nor do you react. So, let's keep it a minimum, so long that it can be carried away in peace. If there is not enough concentration, once again, I suggest you stop the session for 15 minutes and let us breathe a little bit of air. Maybe it'll go faster.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u295	Is it quiet? I think we can move on. We vote on Article 67. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 46. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Colleague Divac Mirnik, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u296	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now I understand that you have to work the order and that you have to defend how, oh and all, but I raised my hand and warned you that you wanted to explain your voice, you ignored me. Please focus on your work, do it properly, and we will all be pleased. But I'm very sorry I couldn't explain it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u297	I'll give you my word if you want to explain your voice again. Come on, come on.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u298	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your kind gesture. We put this amendment into the LMŠ because we don't care where we're going. We don't care where we go in culture. You won't believe it, even in this building it would be nice if it started happening, culture. Once in Slovenia or shortly ago, we decided in Slovenia, did oh and even research, wrote down strategies where we said we would be a green destination and where we said we would try a 5-star experience for our guests here. However, we also wrote that we would like to encourage cultural tourism. For those of you who have not yet been to Maribor, we offer excellent cultural tourism in Maribor, at least in the Maribor theatre, so I invite you to take advantage of that voucher in Maribor or in Maribor-Pohorje. Thank you very much. But of course I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u299	Okay, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to Article 68. We're voting. Explanation. Breakup. Fellow widower, explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u300	Thank you very much, Chairman. I must say that voluntary firefighting has existed in Slovenia for 150 years. And the rest of the volunteers in Slovenia are very well covered in very large societies, in particular as regards rescue and assistance to people, so in my own name I will gladly support the proposed amendment of the coalition, and on behalf of all firefighters and rescuers, I would also like to thank you for every vote you Members will make for this amendment today. This is not a payment for the work done, as voluntary work is not paid and is voluntary. It's just a gesture, a reward that's been seen for work, for the self-sacrifice that volunteers make for a fellow human being to help the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u301	Thank you. We're voting. Breakup. My friend Runk. Please, if you just a little, now just a little. [[…]] [[…]] I'm asking those of you who report for explanations of vote to come forward with a voice, not just to raise your hand. My friend Runk.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u302	Yes, thank you. See, as the Social Democrats have already said during the debate [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u303	On behalf of the MP, right?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u304	On the working body of the mother, we will support this amendment. [[…]] Of course, we would like that amount to be slightly higher, at least EUR 50, and I will continue with my own name so that I do not waste my time. But my great-grandfather is one of the beginners of the fire dam in Slovenian and [[…]] [[Laughing in the hall]] I have to vote for it because you're all bragging. Well, I don't really go to the fire department. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u305	We're voting. There are 84 Members present, 84 in favour, against no one. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to Article 77. We're voting. There are 82 Members present, 54 votes against 10. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to Article 79a. We're voting. There are 82 Members present, 56 votes against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to Article 83. We're voting. There are 81 members present, 63 votes against 1. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 84 of the Group of Ambassadors. My colleague Luke Moon, on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u306	Yes, thank you for your word. This article provides that workers who are quarantined and who are not entitled to hospital leave will not be able to receive work at home from 1. 6. Further justified instead of 80 % of the remuneration, only up to 50 % of the remuneration. We have, of course, made an amendment that specifies 80. Why did we make such an amendment? For the first time because if someone is quarantined, this person is not entitled to bills, rents, expenses, food, but must survive. Secondly, because this was agreed on in the social dialogue, 80%, you have now reduced it just before the beginning. And thirdly, because we can't treat people like that, we can't tell them what's gonna happen to them on May 29th. 6. how they will survive from 1. 6. forward. In short, to maintain at least the same system as it was set up and agreed in social dialogue, i.e. 80% for those people who are sent home for quarantine purposes cannot, cannot work, cannot work from home. I will vote, of course, for [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u307	We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 48. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 85. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 87. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 2. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly adopted amendments to 9, 10, 26, 36, 37, 42, 57, to the title of subheadings 7.4., 68, 77, 79.a, 83, 85, 87. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? No, no, no. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. But I've been warned that the marriage is inconsistent. Since the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 26 of the bill was adopted, the Government has already prepared and forwarded the harmonisation amendment to the National Assembly. The harmonisation amendments published on the e-club. He wants to speak to the government representative about the harmonisation amendment. Mr. Minister Brickler King, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u308	Thank you very much, President. I repeat that the harmonisation amendment is necessary because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has found that because an amendment has been adopted, which significantly broadens the waiting period, has previously been adopted from hospitality and tourism to all employers and is therefore being tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u309	Anyone else want a word? No, no, no. We vote on the harmonisation amendment. There are 80 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. [[advertising from the hall]] My friend Kordish, I took your word. [[advertising from the hall]] If you will abstain from such comments, I will give you my word if I do not stop you immediately. [[advertising from the hall]] Comrade Kordish, on behalf of the House of Representatives, promised to abstain.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u310	Thank you for your word, chairman. The present law is the third against the crown law and therefore the third opportunity to help people and to protect jobs - and people, society, the epidemic and the brink of the crisis of capitalism need this help desperately. Against crown 1 and against crown 2 of the law, for they have shot the pass. Only 20% of the aid was paid to companies, only a good percentage of the loans were frozen, not a single guarantee was issued for the liquidity of the economy. Without help, there was a whole range of social groups. The result is that we are facing the second biggest unemployment leap in Europe in Slovenia. Ten thousand people are out of work. And I'm not even in there counting the self-employed, the "honourers", the students and the other workers of the periphery, who are always the first to be hit by the crisis, but this is just the beginning. But instead of at least in the third time eliminating the incompetence of the government of Janez Janša and learning from his mistakes against Crown 1 and against Crown 2 of the Law, the mistakes of the government against Crown 3, he threw under the rug. The treatment on the working body experienced this law during the night between Tuesday and Wednesday, of course, easier than to take a step against the opposition and the acceptance of the amendments of the opposition than to recognize some criticism as useful to helping people, of course, we are locked up at a night meeting so that as few people as possible can see and hear. The law thus provided assistance to companies for shorter working hours and waiting, but at the same time without the obligation to capital to actually maintain jobs, even though we proposed socialists to the guards. If the state orders someone to quarantine, he'll lose half his salary and slip into poverty. That's what we wanted to fix, too, but we talked about the walls. Tourist vouchers, the poor won't help because they can't afford transport costs and other costs to go on vacation at all. [[sign for the end of the debate]] That is why I have proposed in Levica that instead of tourist vouchers, they receive financial compensation for the purchase of food, school supplies, bills and other living expenses. We wanted to help culture, not just tourism. Everything was rejected, the coalition roller said no. However, this same coalition cylindrical voted to abolish environmental protection guards, voted to abolish anti-corruption guards. [[sign for the end of the debate]] it will not help people, it will not help jobs and the economy, and it will therefore help to further strengthen the power of Janez Janša [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-29-SDZ8-Izredna-38.ana.u311	We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 8. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this item and the 38th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly.
