ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 47th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, Article 60, paragraph 2, and Article 93a, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and on the basis of a decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly adopted at its 83rd meeting on 27 October 2020. I inform you that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Monika Gregorčič from 16:00 on, mag. Bojana Muršič by 3 p.m., Felice Žiža from 3 p.m. on, Ferenc Horváth, Michael Prevc, Tadeja Šuštar, Janja Sluga, Robert Polnar, Franc Kramar and Susana Lepi Šimenko. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the participation at a meeting outside the Assembly was announced by Mr Sam Bevk. Only Bevk is already logged into the remote session app and I welcome him. I also invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! In accordance with the second and fourth paragraphs of Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the agenda for the sitting of the National Assembly shall be set at a distance by the College of the President of the National Assembly with a reference, so we shall not vote on it. We're moving on to one. On the eve of the day, the proposal recommended to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in connection with the cappling of state institutions and economic societies. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the assembly by a group of 38 Members and Members with a first-signed Branet Golubović. With regard to this proposal, the group of 38 Members and Members with the first-signed Branet Golubovic requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Nick Prebil.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u2	Honorable President, ministers, government representatives, well-respected council! Today's extraordinary session is a consequence. It is the result of the brutal march of the government of Janez Janša on state institutions and society in part or in full ownership of the state. Of course, it is extremely important that the exchange of leaders – that is, people who have an impact on certain procedures, people who have access to many data and make important decisions – takes place not only during the greatest health crisis, which is likely to be followed by economic and social ones, but despite this crisis. And I wonder if the government sees it as some kind of smoke screen that can hopefully remain undetected, shameless, subjugating, actually stepping on institutions and manipulating. And then the country's summer preparation for possible exacerbation of the situation, the adoption of scenarios and measures, and the consideration of the possible consequences of the epidemic, including the long-term, all of which the government underestimated or worse, has obviously ignored. In view of its behaviour or, better said, failure to act in LMŠ, Levica, SD and SAB can be said to have clearly clouded the mind of the prime minister and also the ministers. It's like we're on some kind of conquest march. But reality — after the bad eight months of this government’s existence, we are in the inexcusable second wave of the epidemic, which brings with it record numbers of the infected every day. Health care, as it says, is on the verge of its capabilities. The government is in a hurry to take stricter restrictive measures, accompanied by considerable confusion due to the lack of communication. And again, what the government says is that the virus is spreading rapidly. I agree that the fight against the epidemic is a priority in this country, and I would like to see this fight actually as a priority of this government; it is obviously not. And since I'm expecting some duplicity, if you want to talk about staffing in such acute situations, let me answer in advance. This meeting was convened before the outbreak was declared, a staff meeting for which the Government, and in particular its President, has had sufficient time since the first day. And he also had that time in the first wave, when fear of the unknown was even greater. He also had time during the lockdown and when people were out of work. Time has also been spent in the summers, and enough time to write controversial laws, such as the law on the abolition of regulators, and, of course, enough time for a number of staff exchanges in independent institutions that are crucial for the functioning of this country. And in all these months, the establishment of an epidemic control system could have waited. The same applies to ensuring sufficient number of beds in hospitals, for normal, adult, non-protective communication, for the purchase of appropriate medical equipment. For all of this, as we see today, there was no time; but there was much more for setting up obedient and obedient personnel. Janez Janša and his government obviously have enough time to do this because he is married to the transformation of society and the undermining of democratic standards. Yes, this is the third government of Janez Janša, actually the government of one man, him, and the government of one agenda, the esdees. Its aim in the shadow of the epidemic is to fulfil the plan of subordination of the entire social system and to treat the independent, non-political and professional institutions. And this invasive march, as it were said, began immediately. Let me just name a few. The police, the military and the NPU, that is, the exchange of security and intelligence services, are clearly a thorn in the five rulings. A two-time shift between the Police Director and the goal of finding the one who will carry out everything he is ordered to do. And the changes to the ODS and Owls, to the exchange in the criminal police and the National Investigation Office. So in those institutions that also investigate the financing of the SDS and the media owned by certain prominent members of that party and members of the government. Of course, the controversial purchases of protective equipment and many others. And it was to these very places that the very staff of the President of the Government came to the fore. There are also exchanges in media and reporting structures, an open attack on public broadcasting and all other media, including foreign media, except of course on Novo24TV. And the goal is to suppress criticism, scale up reporting and open the way for stories with that one true truth or content. This government at the head of the SDS is doing everything that it should not, in fact, do in democracy. Instead of withdrawing the policy from public services — attention, public, not government or government — they are politically subordinated. There is, of course, an attack and exchange in the STA, a planned and systematic destruction of culture and everything related to a critical opinion. Well, we're not surprised, because we know who's sitting at the Ministry of Culture. It is also necessary to mention the exchanges of three members of the NEJS Council, which allowed someone who is likely to be obedient to the head of the institute to rise, but who is not an epidemiologist, and therefore does not belong to the expertise that the NEJS and the State would need in those times. On the contrary, we know him by confusing information, not knowing his own recommendations and actions, even after not respecting them. It is often the impression that — even if he is an expert or just because he is an expert — he has contributed more to greater confusion than to reconciliation. And there are also exchanges in two very important institutions, that is, exchange at the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia and at the Financial Administration. Of course, it changes without a reason, with only one goal – political submission. I can't even get past the exchanges in supervisory boards, boards of directors and economic institutions in which the state of ownership is involved. Let me mention only those in SDH, Dars, Krka and Slovenian railways, Telekom Slovenije, Sod, Borzno, 2TDK, DUTB and Holding Slovenian power plants. And if I'm just being cynical, these are truly the exchange that is crucial to the functioning of the country in the epidemic. Of course, with functions you rewarded those obedient and faithful ones. So let me make a decision. The government therefore has more than obvious time for everyone except for what would properly drive the country out of the health and economic crisis. There's a time to frame when priorities are elsewhere. And no matter what, we know you won't listen to us. Your Honor, you will not silence us by diverting attention or personal attacks. And many irregularities in these appointments, pressures, lowering professional standards for the performance of individual jobs or functions that will have a significant impact on what may be being investigated, i.e. procedures against individual policies and their political parties, are unacceptable and cause irreparable harm to the country. However, despite the monopoly, not only the SDS party will be called to account, but also those coalition partners, those who have sold out for comfortable seats and people will claim that you will defend democracy, but now help to abuse. The fact that we will not decide on the proposals attached to the call because they have been rejected by the parental committee shows that the priorities are elsewhere, in power, in power, in power, in money; and not in those that we serve basically all, that is, in people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u3	Thank you very much. In order to further explain the proposal, I also give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Nataša Sukič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Good-bye! Since the first day of the government of Janez Janša in Levika, we have been reminding ourselves of the strengthening of authoritarianism, repression, the limitation of democracy and the silence of everyone who hopes to question the government and John Janša himself. We have seen what happened to experts who questioned the government's actions and decisions, from the NIJ to the expert group and so on. All were resolved and replaced by faithful personnel or members of the SDS, following a rapid procedure. The exact same story also happened with repressive authorities, and the exact same story takes place at many other levels. The deliberate political recruitment of faithful people into positions that have an impact on the course of investigations, police, control or other relevant procedures and their implementation, demonstrates the SDS's direction to cover with the help of its loyal coalition satellites a number of illegalities that the competent authorities should explore in an independent and impartial manner. At the same time, such control exerts pressure on all political opponents, whether protestors on the street, journalists or party opponents. Investigative and supervisory authorities may collect data on individuals, initiate procedures against them and threaten them in other ways. Personal discredits are the least that we can expect from government representatives or their supporters. The government persistently violates the autonomy of the authorities, undermines their independence and expertise, carries out political cleansing and greed after the control, management of institutions and companies owned by the State. Although we do not agree in Levica that it is a matter of putting aside and replacing all the leading personnel and setting up your own, something completely self-sustaining and acceptable. Some authorities should, and should also remain independent in that they are not willing to change the leadership of these institutions. For example, if the Ombudsman was an independent and independent body, then the law would stipulate that the government could replace him at any time without any particular reason, it would be difficult to talk about an independent and independent body. And in this light of possible substitutions without justified reasons, this spectrum in Slovenia is actually excessively wide, which clearly stems from the fact that you are a single political party, i.e. SDS, practically subjugates the entire repressive body within a few days, throughout the hierarchy. This is not just about whose heads are cut; after all, in certain positions, all governments are doing it. It is also about who is placed in key places in the country; but more later in the debate. What is particularly concerned is the pressure on the work of the police and especially on the NPU, which should be an independent institution, obviously no longer. The order of staff cleaning, which started in March this year at the founding meeting of the third government of Janša by the resignation of the Director General of Tatjana Bobnar Police, takes place, of course, very quickly, in a predictable scenario and in a predictable direction. On the way to the goal of the literal tree of the ruling SDS, Bobnar was replaced by Anton Travner, who blamed Hojs on the persecution of Pozvalska and Třnarje. Travner had already changed the director of the uniform and the director of the criminal police. Next. Igor Lamberger was replaced by Uroš Lepša, who was selected by Jurič after the invitation to tender, although the Council of Officials was more appraised by the other candidates – Lamberger and Boštjana Lindava. Not to mention that Minister Hojs himself resigned in the middle, irrevocably, so irrevocably that he changed his mind. The epic dimension of turbulence after all this can't yet be added sugar, but according to the state of the matter, we can certainly hope for another surprise. In Levika, we were amazed and extremely concerned about this type of political influence and recruitment — not professionally, but politically — of the marked employees. We are aware that political recruitment is a long-term harmful practice, which is in a worrying increase. The self-inflicted attitude of the government not only seriously endangers the stability of democratic regulation, it also means the untransparent and reckless use of public money and damages the reputation of the State's institution and the state as such. Because political recruitment may contain elements of systemic corruption and raise suspicions of abuse of official position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u5	Thank you very much. On 26 October 2020, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the draft recommendation as the working body. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u6	Your Honor! Good-bye to all of you! At its 30th emergency meeting, on 26 October 2020, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Administration considered the Proposal for a Recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the recruitment of state institutions and economic society. On behalf of the proposer, the addition of the explanation to the proposal was made by Mr Nik Prebil and Mr Nataš Sukič. They stressed that during the greatest health and economic crisis in recent decades, the current government has not only dealt with the covida-19 epidemic, but also with a number of staff exchanges in influential places in repressive supervisory and economic authorities or companies. According to the proposaler, this shows an obvious interest in political subordination, and it is true that individual political options are subordinated to one another. According to the applicants, the most pressing issue is the exchange of leadership in the Police and the National Investigation Office, but several other cases have been cited. In his reply, Mr Aleš Hojs, Minister of the Interior, stressed that the law clearly rules on the recruitment of officials' posts and that when it comes to the Police, the Minister has sole competence as regards the Director-General of the Police; however, he has no authority and is not involved in the recruitment within the Police. He stressed that all employment and relocation procedures in the Police were carried out on an appropriate legal basis, on the basis of public law and that all those proposed or appointed met all the conditions laid down for the recruitment of positions. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mrs Ida Cuderman, stressed with regard to the envisaged merger of eight public agencies into two major agencies that it was a proposal for a recast of the system, with which the government expects the Slovenian market to become even safer, more orderly and more competitive. It foresees that the new agencies, with some other measures, will contribute to a more competitive business environment, one of the key priorities of the current government to achieve faster development. She also stressed that the independence of the new agencies would be ensured by the appointment of members of the Council and the administration of the National Assembly; and that they would be provided with separation from the state administration and political neutrality. The legal opinion was also given by the Legal and Legislative Service, which had several comments in the original text. With regard to the amendments tabled by the applicants themselves, however, it considered that they followed the comments to a certain extent. At the vote, the Committee voted first on the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and Alenka Bratušek to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 and the preamble to the proposal to the recommendation and did not adopt them. In accordance with Articles 128 and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he then voted on all the points of the proposal together and did not accept them; 6 to 10 votes. On the basis of the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly 9. 12. As Chairman of the Committee, I found that the proposal for a recommendation by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the recruitment of national institutions and companies in the home labour system had been completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u7	Thank you very much. For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the representatives of the Government. First of all, Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojs has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u8	Dear President, honourable Members, and, of course, distinguished viewers and respected viewers! Yesterday I noticed in the media that today it is a historic session, that it is a historic session, because Members can also do their work for the first time through Zoom, Teams, other applications and that you can also apply for a word and vote within this. When I was thinking about what to say at the beginning of the talk, I have to say that it's actually twice about the historic session. In another case, it is a historic session because I do not know the case that the opposition, of course, must say – part of the opposition, because the Slovenian National Party is excluded from this, has called a meeting because the government is doing its work in the midst of the worst epidemic. The government and its coalition partners shall carry out their work in accordance with the legislation in accordance with the Coalition Treaty. With the implementation of this coalition agreement, it is essential that you have adequate staff in the appropriate places. I can't imagine a company director working with someone he can't work with. I just can't imagine the Minister doing his job with people he can't work with. In the past, much has been said about the replacements of previous governments, so I will not lose much of this. Maybe the word on this, and the SDS has been monitoring government exchanges in the past. At the time Mr Borut Pahor led the government, he also posted a human resources change counter on the website. All of this we have been monitoring, all of this is legitimate, just as you are doing now; but of course we have never called extraordinary meetings for this reason, because the change of personnel is an integral part of everything that any government does. More than 200 exchanges made by Mr Marjan Sarec in his one-and-a-half-year term have already been presented. Perhaps we forgot about the brutal recruitment of Alenka Bratušek, who remained somehow in the shadow, who at the government's meeting wanted to frame her with a change of decrees so that she could have a direct impact. Mr Marjan Sarec, as the then President of the Government, simply removed those decrees, if I say so at home, from the meeting. There is probably no need to lose words about the party of the Social Democrats. It's a party that's practically been in power for seventy years. At the time of the government led by Mr Borut Pahor, I have already said there have been more than a few hundred staff exchanges. Even if you want to be the head of a local Petrol gas station, you have to get the SD party's approval first. In this regard, it is, frankly, at least to report to colleagues from the Party of Levi. They haven't been in the government yet. And I hope it'll always be like this. I hope that the Slovenians will look at what their sister's party in Greece has been doing – a complete splinter of the system, a complete dispersion of the banking system, poverty, people couldn't even raise their savings from their accounts. But what it would look like if they were to frame them, they actually presented themselves. They have appointed their undeniable Governor of the Bank of Slovenia as the candidate for the Prime Minister of the Government. He was first proposed as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, now proposed as Prime Minister of the Government. A man who is an anti-European, a man who made it clear that the introduction of the euro was a mistake, a man who, as is understood from public data, was in charge of hundreds of thousands of Swiss francs and would like to turn it into a European obligation. You can imagine it's probably about this, I'm speculating about socializing or solidaritying my personal debts. He was also involved in the work of the former minister when he said in some special world about the second track: no matter how much the second track costs, it is important that it be done by our own. I don't know which ones are ours, but apparently he knows better than we all do. In this introduction, I will not focus on specific cases. You will probably find these specific cases during today's multi-annual debate. Already in the introduction, on behalf of the government, I should apologize to all Slovenians and Slovenians for having to listen to this during the worst epidemic; however, we will, of course, reject with arguments all the objections the opposition will make to our account. I have recruited everything in accordance with the law, according to procedure, and I intend to do so in the future. There will be representatives for further clarification.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Uroš Lampret, has the floor. Procedurally, Dr. Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. This was not an explanation of the Government's opinion, it was a parliamentary controversy. If Mr. Hoys wants to go, let him run and become an MP if he succeeds. However, I will not apologize to citizens and citizens for having to listen to him, for this is the responsibility of the other 51. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u11	Comrade Duck, this is not a procedural proposal. Please refrain from abuse. Mr. Lampret has the floor. Mr. Bandelli, you have a procedure. Please stick to the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u12	Thank you, President. You let Minister Hoys know he doesn't have to lie and cheat like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u13	Comrade Bandelli, you've already started by making it clear that this is not a procedural proposal. Please, fellow Members, let's stick to the Rules of Procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u14	There was no explanation, just some crowding and his lame statement and the accusations of Alenka Bratušek that she wanted to frame her; which is not true. Because she's the one who wanted to keep it from happening what they were doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u15	Comrade Bandelli, I'm warning you. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u16	Please warn him, even if you have not had the opportunity to warn him [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u17	A reminder for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u18	But it's a shame what he said, retired minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u19	Warning, warning. Colleague Hefferle, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I have a procedural proposal which relates to the application of the Rules of Procedure. In this National Assembly, a new practice is established when it comes to the position of the parliamentary groups or when further explanations are given by the proposers or the Government. That is why I would appeal to you, Mr President, that you are also consistent with the Government's representatives' explanations when they speak to you beyond the agenda. I think the proposaler is not talking about some political situation in Greece and so on. My procedural proposal is to draw attention to the Government's representatives as well, that in their views or additional explanations, and also later in the debate, when it will be, they will focus on the topic of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u21	My colleague Hefferle, you know it wasn't a procedural proposal either. First of all, I would like to point out something, and as President of the National Assembly, I hope that the Vice-Presidents and the presidents of the working bodies, too, will not tie anyone's mouth and judge his debate. If the Minister had debated as he did, but some did not like it, he would have debated it as he did. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry, I explained the government's opinion. Being a minister is a political function. His debate today was political, I apologize for his complementary explanation of the position. And I don't think anyone who runs a working body is going to run it to someone who gives him a word, jumps into his word, controls him and tells him that he can or shouldn't talk. I think we have to agree on that. I think that this complementary explanation was such that it was related to the content that we are dealing with today. If you see this problem, then I suggest that those who see procedural reservations here use those institutes that the Rules of Procedure allow. Not stalling this session. My friend Luke Moon, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u22	Thank you. Mr President, because you do not want to understand, I will make a procedural proposal myself, which is quite simple, and that is that you have the same vats for everyone. We have been here for weeks to monitor how the opposition Members, when presenting the opinions of the parliamentary groups, are jumping into the floor during the presentation of positions, especially Mr Tanko, for nothing if we turn a little out of the picture with one sentence. On the other hand, Mr Hojs now had a 10-minute position, perhaps 20 seconds – 20 seconds – talking about the subject, but everything else went somewhere in three great places. He spoke of the situation in Greece, forgetting to say that his sister’s client had been banned there and the leaders had been imprisoned. He talked about all possible things and distracted attention, except what is on the agenda today; and this is the recruitment of the institution by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is also part of the withdrawn Minister Hojs. Therefore, I ask all three of you to have the same vats for all of us when we present the views of the groups of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u23	Comrade Luke Moon, if this is a procedural proposal, then you must first find out that I am holding a meeting, not one of the vice-presidents. And you didn't hear me jump anyone's word. If you're referring to one of the vice presidents, of course, this is a matter of debate that we've already touched at various meetings, but you haven't heard from me. And you can't even tell one case that I jumped into anyone's word and warned them or moderated his explanation. I appeal to you that if we are gathered today, we will address the topic for which the opposition parties have asked us to focus, so that you can focus on your procedural proposals and move on. Dear Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u24	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The replacements subject to the recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are also mentioned by the proponents in the explanatory memorandum as well as the replacements in the post of Chief of Staff. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u25	Dear Secretary of State, please only if you can speak a little louder into the microphone. Thank you very much. But I'm asking everyone else for quiet.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The replacements subject to the recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are also mentioned in explanation by the proponents at the post of Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces and Director General of the Security Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence. The replacements in the position of Chief of Staff and the Director-General do not deviate in any way from the practice in this area, because it is precisely because of the sensitivity of these two positions, in addition to expertise, that mutual trust and the compatibility of the vision of development in these areas is also important between each Minister and those persons. For these reasons, there have been regular exchanges in these positions at the time of the new government. In some cases, immediately upon appearance, and in most cases within a few weeks or months. virtually all defence ministers have taken advantage of the opportunities given to them by Article 83, paragraph 5, of the Law on Public Servants, to propose, within one year of taking office, the replacement of the head of the body in the composition or of another official in the position of office. Within the mandate of the Government of 2014-2018, two Chiefs of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces and two Directors-General of the Security Intelligence Service took place within one mandate. Even during the 13th Prime Minister there was an exchange of Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, although Chief General Alan Geder was not in that position for a year. In the event of the replacement of Major General Alenke Ermenc, the Slovenian Army's leadership took over Brigadier Robert Glavas, who was its deputy before that appointment. So it's some kind of logical move that doesn't have a political connotation. Robert Glavas is an extremely experienced officer who has performed a number of most demanding duties in the Slovenian Army and is distinguished by the exceptional belongings of this organization, and in particular understands this and realizes that the regulation of the situation in the Slovenian Army depends not only on external factors, but also on relations and organisational climate within the military. The reputation that a leader and an officer enjoys within the organization is what this one needs today. If anyone, then it is possible for Brigadier Glavas to see no political affiliation but even less the lack of competence. In the event of the replacement of the Director-General of the OSC, it should be clarified that the former Director of the Dejan Matievich Service, on 11 March 2020, only two days before the start of the new government, made a withdrawal statement to the then Minister of Defence on 12 March. So one day before the appointment of the new 14th government. On the same day, Minister Erjavec also submitted a proposal for his release to the government, but the Director changed his mind and the material on his release was withdrawn a day later. This is also documented. And even in this case, there is no political change, as the Director obviously wanted to return early to work with the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, where he also came from. However, a highly experienced intelligence officer was appointed as the new director. As for his subsequent exchange, however, it was made for reasons on his part and solely at his request.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Ida Cuderman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u28	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Allow me to present the opinion of the Government on the statements of the Group of Members and Members in explanation of the proposal for a recommendation. They apply, however, to the proposal of the Law on the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Market, Transport and Consumer Safety and to the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Financial Markets, which was approved by the Government on 14 October 2020 and forwarded to the National Assembly for consideration on a regular basis, which means that this topic will be addressed in at least three regular readings before the National Assembly. The bill introduces a reform of the system concerning certain public agencies, with the conclusion of which we will get a safer, more liberal, more competitive market. As a result, a more orderly market will be provided. On the basis of the proposal for a law, two new agencies are being set up on the basis of eight agencies, which will be effective and will be able to respond to market challenges. The opinion in the letter of Members refers to the potential loss of the service of eight directors and members of the Councils. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to point out that, with the merger of existing agencies, none of the current directors will conclude their term of office prematurely, but will continue to work in the new agency until the end of their term of office. In this part, we have followed the importance of the principle of the independence of national regulatory authorities, as given by European legal order and European judicial practice, and have taken into account the possible consequences of the early termination of directors' mandates to the independent and independent conduct and operation of regulatory authorities, which is also regulated and ensured by the proposal for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. The position will be presented by counterpart Brana Golubovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives of the government, a nice greeting! Welcome to today's meeting on the brutal staffing of the government, which the government believes should not be. The coalition says it's not the time for political games. Perhaps the re-declaration of the epidemic would be the time for the opposition to freeze. Perhaps it would be worth abandoning any criticism and directing all forces to the rescue of covidkris. Maybe that's possible in mature democracy. Not in Slovenia under the government of Janez Janša. In Slovenia, the government is using the epidemic to deal with all those who disagree with it. For brutal recruitment, in particular where investigations need to be stopped. For the subordination of all independent and autonomous institutions and for the destruction of the constitutional order. In Slovenia, this government cannot really be kept silent, it must not remain silent, because it would be irresponsible to the country, to the Constitution, to the people. If this government were to really put people's lives and health first, there would be no brutal government recruitment session today. She wouldn't be here. And it will be easy to admit that the government, judging by what we can follow in our society, has not put health care and preparation for covid or autumn’s second wave, although it has had enough time for more than four months. And she knew much more about the covid-19 virus than she knew in March 2020. Unfortunately, all of us have failed the government, and now it saves what to save, and seeks responsibility with all others; but not with ourselves. At the same time, the government still employs and works hard to subdue the entire country. For example, today on the Radiotelevisions of Slovenia Programme Council, public RTV, this government, this coalition, through its programme councilors, demolishes the director of RTV, with the aim of taking over public television. At the time of the greatest epidemic, said the minister, the opposition has time to deal with the personnel. At the time of the biggest epidemic, this government has time to take over RTV Slovenia. Let me make it clear that human resources exchanges are not in themselves controversial. They are not when it comes to regular exchanges or otherwise justified exchanges and, of course, where professional, sublime, capable and, in particular, a mature person is recruited. But in this government, as we can see, it was the only one who led the hostile takeover of institutions and therefore has nods, obedience, loyalty, service over knowledge, expertise and ability. In the presentation of the position of the List of Marjan Šarc we will remind you of just one example, more will be presented by our colleagues and colleagues from the List of Marjan Šarc and the opposition. We have been following a national investigative coup for months, I apologize – the National Investigation Office, although we could say a blow, because in fact there is a government political coup at the National Investigation Office. We can all follow this staff saga for months. Now he's been run by a fourth person. In less than six months, this government has replaced four directors of the National Investigation Office – an independent autonomous institution; and everything is supposed to be fine. And who, for example, exerts pressure on all of these persons who have so far resigned from the National Investigation Office? Politics, that's a fact. A policy that hides behind its chief general of police. By the way, at the top of the Police, there is now another Director-General, another who performs policy tasks and protects individuals and parties from ongoing investigations. Mr Hajdinjak, Vice-President of New Slovenia, received the position of advisor to Darsa for the award. All of this happened during the epidemic, during the greatest health crisis in our country. Exchanges at the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and at the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering are also linked to the NPU and the suspension of investigations. This is where the directors were replaced. You won't believe it. Both of these changes, the new directors are called SDS. And if the government were really concerned with life and health, it would have stopped its personnel tsunami months ago. It was enough already in July when Dr Bojana Beovic said that the Balkans were becoming a new Italy and were afraid of the late closures of the borders. On 1 July, there was enough of these government human resources games and there was enough time to act, to take a different approach to solving the health crisis and a different approach to addressing people. That was enough time on July 1st. But no, the government did everything else blindly, silently, and deafly. She ignored the profession, did not take their warnings seriously until October 18th, when the Prime Minister of the Government announced on Twitter the outbreak – October 18th, with already 20% positive tests. Substantial late action. In Germany, for example, they will tighten measures today at 5%, and today they will tighten measures at 5%. And this also shows how – we will say – what this government is doing irresponsiblely in solving the health crisis. Respected coalition, preparing the country for the second wave was not your priority, as was this priority, for example, in Germany or Austria. It wasn't the government's priority. The epidemic has been used for other purposes. Everyone has their own interest, everyone has their own cause, some also profit. The preparation of the country for the second wave was also not a priority for the Prime Minister. The epidemic was just a handy tool for its true priority; it is to control and control everything. There is no doubt that he has time to do this over and over and over again, proving it every day, repeatedly, spending, on Twitter. In this Chamber too, you will have to admit that the President of the Government simply does not master that he does not know that he is not capable of having a crisis resolution strategy; it is simply the creation of these. The myth of a great strategy has fallen. As Churchill said: "The strategy can be so beautiful, but sometimes it is worth looking at the results." Look at them. With some self-reflection and self-criticism, look at the results of Janša’s first and second government. Maybe you'll understand where your silence is taking us. My colleague and colleagues, waiting for the third wave with this government, this country cannot afford it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Predrag Baković will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Why are we here today? This is probably a question that arises with many of our citizens and especially with those who hear the recommendations several times a day to stay at home and avoid contact if possible; on the other hand, of course, the National Assembly is sitting on the subject of the government's staffing. Unfortunately, I will say that because such meetings would not be a witness in circumstances in which the government would devote a hundred percent of what would be expected of it — that is, the fight against the epidemic. However, this is not the case; on the contrary, it appears more and more that the government's first intention was and remains under cover and by means of the epidemic, to set up its client's workforce package in key institutions of this country and to subordinate many social sub-systems in a way that will serve the interests of the government coalition. Of course, the government does not recognise this work, even more so, as a result of this extremely problematic conduct, the blame actually falls on everyone else, except ourselves. In the meantime, the courts prove that it took place in the event of the discharge of the Director of the NPU for Illegality. According to the opposition, the government's point of recommendation to the government on the issue of committee staffing was smooth hit. However, the recommendations say what in fact confirms the increasingly worrying reality of our space, that today the first priority of the government of the epidemic and the fight against it should be, but certainly not political recruitment and exchange in leading places in the Police, the National Investigation Office, the National Institute for Public Health, the Financial Administration, the Statistical Office and so on. And in the media with which the government has been dealing in a particularly harsh way since the beginning of the mandate. The government will also find time to account for all the difficult challenges of this time with the management of state-owned companies. But the government's human resources tsunami isn't something that would have happened or happened by accident. There is also something that this government has not been expected to do, but we can be extremely concerned about the way, the scope and the reasons for the replacement of leadership. The government is no longer trying to explain why changes are taking place; it has simply taken for itself the right to be crushed by everything and everyone who is not according to its policy. As a rule, institutions for society and the state of important positions should behave with expertise and experience, but these are not important to the government. On the contrary, experience for the government poses a threat that could lead to criticism by the government, expertise is only a heavy burden for the government of political loyalty, and therefore, according to the government's belief, it is necessary to select candidates who have the greatest respect for the political and client needs of the ruling coalition. So that, if I say so, according to the traditional political recipe, the largest coalition parties are – only that they are ours. Unfortunately, this is also happening in extremely sensitive areas, such as intelligence and security, which is particularly worrying. However, for all these human resources or even sub-system sub-system sub-systems, a new model is detected. It is intended to cover the government's objectives to the greatest extent and try to cover them under cover of insignificance and consequently reduce media coverage. But this is kind of how it goes. At the letter meeting of the Government, by the way, two or three other leaders in the Police, the NPU, are being replaced by two or three leaders in the process of establishing new restrictive measures as a result of the epidemic. Under the line, we are witnessing an attempt to decommission the basic social subsystems by the largest coalition party with the faithful internship of the other three. This is a school example of imitating Hungarian and Polish models of political subordination of the media, autonomous institutions; in short, all those who could set up a mirror for the government in its respect for authoritarian policies. With a significant difference that the Hungarian media model lasts several years and in Slovenia the conversion of the media landscape, if we do not stop it, promises only within a few months. Is that what we really want? Not in the opposition at all. We now have, at the time of this great crisis, an even greater responsibility for people who are dealing with major social pressures, insecurity, and thus do not have time to focus on the sidelines of the government. But they will certainly ask us — Members and Members — what we have done to prevent and oppose such acts. All of us, dear colleagues and colleagues, whether we are in opposition or in coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mag. Dušan Verbič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, President. Dear representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! Today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is considered to be contrary to the constitutional provisions stipulating that Slovenia is a democratic and legal state. Among other things, they recommend that the Government cease political recruitment immediately. Today's extraordinary meeting is just a continuation of the debate and a repetition of some of the observations we have heard at the meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as in the debate on the interpretation of the Minister of Interior, Aleš Hojs, so it appears that it will be necessary to repeat or face the motioners with some of the facts and arguments already presented. Each government shall, at the time of its term of office, carry out certain staff exchanges in certain positions and shall have a legal basis for doing so. That right, and if you want, sometimes even duty has never been waived before. Not Janez Drnovšek, not Janez Janša, Borut Pahor, Alenka Bratušek, Miro Cerar or Marjan Sarec. And he probably won't give up the next president or the president of the government, whoever he is. The Law on Public Servants clearly provides for the recruitment of positions of officials. The ministries include the Director-General, the Secretary-General and the heads of internal organisational units. We understand both political and administrative authorities in the system of division of power under the terms of government or executive power. The government and the state administration, or ministries, are in a test relationship with both the director and the executor. Therefore, every time a government — between the left and right governments — has never made a major difference on this issue — it allows for a final word on the recruitment of each minister. However, the key to this type of conduct is contained in the Public Servants Act adopted in 2003 and supplemented in 2005 in such a way as to set a time limit within which it is possible to replace the highest officials for no uncriminal reason. This shall amount to one year from the appointment of the minister to whom the official is responsible; and within one year of the appointment of the officers, irrespective of when they took office. Therefore, for 15 years now, it has been expected from officials in office to cooperate loyally with public or political officials in the implementation of their political orientations. Therefore, their position is not the same as that of the lower officials. The reasons for the loss of their position, as already mentioned, may be inviolable and may depend on their ability to cooperate with individual officials. And since the replacement of every government and minister. That's why every move is superfluous. The former Sharčeva Government, which participated in the SMC, also carried out 45 exchanges on the basis of the Law on Public Servants to the highest positions in official posts between September 2018 and September 2019 by individual ministers. Among them were the Director of the Police, the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the Director-General of the Intelligence Personnel Service, as well as the SOVE and a number of other officials. It is therefore unreasonable to expect any government not to take advantage of the right conferred on it by law and to place officials in the most responsible positions, where mutual trust is also important, and for whom the assessment is predominant, in order to be able to implement government or ministry guidelines. Let me also mention the explanation given by the Constitutional Court when it had already assessed a regulation in which, at the time of the new government or the new minister's appearance, the highest management officials were dismissed from the position without any ground of guilt. It stated that such an arrangement is not in itself inconsistent with the second paragraph of Article 120 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, in the SMC Group, we do not agree to the popularism which, in the past, our current coalition partners have also launched, when each other's coalition and opposition have been setting up so-called human resources counters and have received political recruitment either in state institutions or in the economy or in state-owned enterprises. However, we agree with the proposers of this meeting that the government, as well as individual ministers, must act transparently and legally in the management of the recruitment procedures. Its work must be carried out on the basis of legality, expertise, professionalism, confidence that they work for the good and benefit of the State and its inhabitants. Slovenia is not an oasis that would be surrounded by political recruitment in the great arc. The voters understand that, so the statements on brutal recruitment that we will be hearing from the opposition today are at least insincere. However, it is crucial to staff that political affiliation should not become the only and main criteria in the selection process, but that the policy finally understands that it needs professional and professional staff with sufficient integrity that will be able to ensure the quality of government and ministers' design and implementation of public policies. On the basis of the above arguments, we did not support the recommendations on the parent body in the SMC. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Boštjan Koražija will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u36	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. I also thank the cleaning lady, who has literally disinfected us again today and also cares about our health in this room. And we're going straight to this point of the agenda. When Janez Janša rules, it is actually the profession that must be subordinated to politics, always and forever and for the third time. And at a time when we have the biggest health crisis, we should be epidemiologists, all health advisers, scientists, and even rescuers, the ones whom John Janša should listen to every day and every minute. But no, Janez Janša is the Prime Minister of the Government in this government, as well as the President of the State, according to statements made by certain individuals, as well as by an epidemiologist or doctor, if you would like. And that's not right. The times are very difficult, for everyone, even for John Janshoe is the same. And at a time when we are experiencing the greatest health crisis in Slovenia, which will also bring about the biggest economic and biggest social crisis, the actual coalition should be the one that should be a kind of reason in this government, or a party that is not the main one in this government. I appeal to SMC, Desus and NSI. And I know, we listen to a lot of things, we listen to these things right here and there. I'll get back to yesterday's interview that happened on RTV tonight. One of the very well-known columnists said very harshly, in the spirit of time, that the opposition should not seek trouble and holes in the system, because it is necessary to support the coalition. And we, the opposition, have always supported the coalition and this government, including with good suggestions. The problem is, in fact, this opposition does not want to cooperate. And what should the opposition, or we, the party of the Left, do in this case? Should we keep quiet and look up at the air so that we can literally be picked up or we can go into cancer and whistle?Oh, my God! It is said that the coalition can do things that are wrong and are unprofessional; we should just watch and be silent. It's not democratic, it's professional. And it is right that we are that opposition, the voice of the people in this case, because the people are desperate and terrified. And when they listen to these things that happen day and night, and also to those human resources tsunamis that are actually happening in all the areas that we are experiencing, they do not really give people a sense of security that they are actually well-being and well-being; because they are not, unfortunately. The fact is, at this time of this terrible epidemic, we really should be dealing only with the health crisis. To listen to these media spins daily, which John Janša has very well mastered, and also very good spin with the help of a coalition, is unacceptable. And how can people believe anything else to this government and also to John Janša when he asks them to stick to the rules? And then, because someone eats a croissant or eats a croissant from a child in a wheelchair, they get a fine of 400 or 800 euros. Please! Government representatives themselves have little to do with these things, which they have also written down and have also legalized. As for the staff in general; however, with respect for everyone, they raised me, regardless, even if you disagree with him, respect him. I also respect Mr. Hoys. But I have a problem, Mr. Hoys has already resigned. And however we turn things around, the gentleman is a renegade minister. And in fact, it is the minister who then gave instructions on the repression or also on the exchange that is taking place in these repressive bodies. Anyway, it sounds very unprofessional and very political. And here we are at the final point of my position. Sadly, this has always been with John Janša and his governments, for as long as Janez Janša’s reign has taken place, it has been politically and unprofessional. And unfortunately, we are experiencing a living example in this crisis that is happening to us; and if we do not act quickly and even do something concrete, we will get a very large and badly spent account for it. And I'm asking you to turn your mind on at this time. And I will say as Mr President of the Government recently said, "Beware." Everybody be sober. All those who have the opportunity that you are in the coalition that you rule; and do not blame you constantly to throw up against the opposition because the opposition in this case wanted you well, but you did not listen to it, sorry. Once again, it is the lives of people, the health of our citizens and citizens, the health of our inhabitants and people. If you are serious about what you are saying, and even if you are serious about what John Janša says, not that he is now engaged in various personnel that fly from day to day, then prove it or prove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Blaž Pavlin has the floor to present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u38	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At the beginning of this position, let us look back and recall the words of former Prime Minister Marjan Šarc, who told TV Slovenia about the issue of personnel change at the top of the army, the Police and elsewhere that he had promised changes in the elections and that as a new person on the national floor he must also take care of the change of personnel if he wants to change anything. Surely something else will happen where it is necessary, he promised in December 2018. He also reported on the MMC web portal, which placed Sarčev’s statement on human resources exchanges with the title “Sharec: If I want to make a difference as a new person, then it is imperative to make personnel exchanges. ” It would also be worth recalling a well-known case when the Secretary-General of LMŠ telephoned the Supervisory Officer of the Official Journal and notified that the State expected this to become Igor Soltes. Of course, Brane King had to leave his post. Only the naive can believe that the president of the LMŠ party knew nothing about this. For this reason, it seems somewhat unexpected to us that the applicant for the recruitment recommendations under consideration is a party to the LMŠ. On January 27, did you just give up your principles? We're all politically defined. Some talk about this openly and transparently, while others hide it behind various seemingly neutral masks. It's certainly better to be honest about this. I believe that the public is also more attentive to the work of those who are politically more exposed, which is useful for the organisations they run, as well as for the country and citizens. As long as the state has ownership and also influence on staffing, in Nova Slovenija we are not in favour of moving around and setting up some personnel that are known exactly where they belong and formally do not have any ID. If we want to do something, then in key places we need professional, competent people who are willing to take responsibility for the results of their work. We shouldn't be asking for a card. Here I will borrow the words of my fellow Member, Matjaž Han, who said that we should not criminalise an individual for membership in a political party, but should judge the individual according to his actions and after his work. It is true that New Slovenia has written a chapter in its electoral programme – the withdrawal of policies from the economy. There is no point in a state of activity such as hoteling, gambling and the like, so let's get the ownership out of these activities. In this chapter, we have also made it very clear: we advocate the withdrawal of the country and the policy from the economy, and it is reasonable that the country retains the majority ownership of strategic companies in the field of transport, transport and logistics infrastructure and the electricity system. Road infrastructure and energy are certainly strategically important industries. And if the State is to maintain ownership in these sectors, it is important that the competent authorities place competent people in these places, irrespective of such or other political affiliation. NSI participates in this government to implement its programme. We are managing areas that have not been settled decades ago and things that have been going on for years. We have taken over the difficult resources and have concrete results. Let me point out some: regulation of the social status of soldiers after the 45th year, modernisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces on equipment, preparedness, improvement of military infrastructure, European means of protection and resolution and better protection of our southern border. The Ministry of Labour has coordinated the preparation of the last anti-Korona packages, with which we have maintained 300,000 jobs. It also prepares everything necessary to build additional homes for pensioners. I am pleased that it has finally begun to move in the area of large infrastructure projects, which have for a long time been unwarranted. The reconstruction of the western tube of the Golovec tunnel was successfully completed, it began with the construction of the second Karavank tube, and finally a shovel was planted on the northern part of the 3rd development axis. The call for the Markovci-Gorišnica-Ormož section is under way and is being accelerated by placing in the space and obtaining a building permit for the southern part of the 3rd development axis. This government has set very ambitious goals for the development of Slovenia. The most obvious of the opposition is that the government is working; of course, this has not been practiced in the past 12 years. To create and move things forward, we need people in key places who we trust to do their work professionally and effectively. However, when appointing to managerial positions, the government must comply consistently with existing legislation while at the same time following exclusively the expertise and integrity of candidates, not the criteria of political affiliation. Their appointment must be legal and their work successful. In Novi Slovenija, we are disturbed by the double criteria currently held by the opposition in human resources exchanges. If the left changes, it is professional, independent, irreproachable and apolitical; if someone else changes, it is political change, it is services and manageable, resilient personnel. You can only sell that logic to rare people. Therefore, we did not support the proposal for recommendations on the parent's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In addition to the Coronavirus epidemic, since the start of the new government, constant political recruitment has been one of the constants in the current news. It is a fact that we all know that each government, when it comes to putting itself in certain key positions of trust and with which it can carry out a programme that it has promised to people. One such area is the area of security and intelligence agencies, where each government shall immediately appoint its own people at the beginning of the mandate. For others that can also be replaced, the law lays down a clear legal basis and gives a tax ruling which can be replaced and changed at the time of the change of government. However, there are authorities where the mandate for the highest legal positions is clearly fixed in time. These are, in particular, bodies which, by their nature, must be autonomous and independent of policy, whatever it is. This is particularly important for the investigating authorities and regulatory authorities, such as the NPU or the Anti-Money Laundering Office. Their governing laws provide for the exact period for which they are appointed to office, as well as for the exact reasons why they can be replaced. Beyond these reasons and in a different way, exchanges on these bodies are illegal. At the time of the operation of this government, which took place on 13 March this year, a few exchanges were not in line with what has been said before; and it also stuck to the eyes because of the names of persons who have been specifically identified politically. Only a few parties have so far been allowed to appoint such politically defined personalities, even former saints or candidates for MPs in their personnel settings. In the opposition ranks, including the SAB, we are, of course, critical to such exchanges. The objective of the opposition in every democratic system – and I hope that it is still in Slovenia – is to point out the wrong practices to warn when it does not agree with the functioning of the coalition; and in particular to warn when exchanges are illegal. The changes that were made at the time of the government of John Janša were listed so many times that I will not mention them. And I'm sure there's going to be an exchange in the NPU, where we now have a third or fourth leader in this position. Why grown - ups who agree to a certain position resign in two months for personal reasons, each of us can explain in his own way. Surely, however, this is a very poor journey for the functioning of independent, autonomous authorities from every single government, as the law sees. That the exchange of directors of the NPU by Dark Maležič was controversial, the Administrative Court in Novi Gorica also confirmed. This was stated in the judgment that the discharge was illegal, since the Director of the NPU is an official in the position and not a political official. The law prevents direct political interference with the position of NPU director, says the court, as such interference would be incompatible with the principles of the police's independent and professional work. The change of members of the RTV Supervisory Board also raised a lot of dust. In the SAB, we have repeatedly warned that the discharge of the Supervisory Board was contrary to the law, as the law provides for a mandate and reasons for discharge in this case too. This was later confirmed by the Administrative Court, which held the decision of the Government to appoint new supervisors. And I could also list such things that happened during this government, but for us in the SAB party, something else is crucial. This government has been stressing and calling all the time – let us direct all our efforts to combat the coronary virus, to health, to the situation we are facing and to get out of it as easily as possible and as best we can. And in the SAB party, we are convinced that in this situation the government does not have and must not have the authority and mandate to quickly transform our country into another country in the background of such a major health crisis. The human resources exchanges that are being discussed today are just part of it. In the SAB, we will continue to draw attention to such practices and be extremely critical of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u42	President, thank you for your word. It's a nice greeting for everyone! Let me begin the position of the Desus Group with the words of former Prime Minister Marjan Sarc. “If I want to make a difference as a new person, then it is necessary to carry out personnel exchanges.” He said these words in an interview published on the portal RTV Slovenia, exactly two months after his election as President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, we must not forget that the left-wing government of Mira Cerar was in power before that. But it's not my intention to tell you. During all the time I sat as a Member in this Chamber, I do not recall that the ruling policy would not carry out certain appointments to different positions in state institutions and state-owned companies. I will not stop at the so-called 2018 Human Resources Tsunami, not so much about staffing today. In the Desus Group, we are aware that if you do not have the trust of valuable and professional people in certain places, it is virtually impossible to work or rule. We must choose our closest associates among people who have the necessary knowledge and trust them fully. And this right has always been used by the ruling policy, and Mr Sarec has taken advantage of this right and has also spoken publicly about it without shame. And not just him, everyone's in front of him, and they're gonna do it after him. It is, however, a fact that a certain personnel plan of the previous ruling policy has been unexpectedly interrupted, and I can say here on behalf of the Desus Group that it was not our fault, nor was it the fault of our then coalition partners. We did have a lot of disagreements among ourselves, but for the benefit of citizens and citizens we were also able to come together. Until the moment the captain of the ship said overnight he couldn't do it anymore. Coincidence or possibly calculus has caused him to give up just before one of the biggest crises ever plagued our country and the whole modern world. And after that, Mr. Sharpe, you will be remembered by people. At a time when the new ruling coalition acted day and night to remedy the damage, to take measures to curb the health crisis, to take measures to help the economy and individuals and to prepare for unexpected autumn challenges, the opposition aggressively opposed measures aimed at citizens and citizens. Moreover, with various populist proposals that opposed reasonable capabilities, the opposition has repeatedly shown that it cares more about public image and political points than it does about the mission entrusted to it. And so it continues today, when hospitals are coughing up stitches, and medical personnel are on the verge of capacity. In this place, let me point out that in the Desus Group we strongly condemn such behaviour. The perceptions of undemocraticity and disrespect for the fact that Slovenia is a legal state are more than obvious just words on paper. All the appointments made during the new government were carried out in accordance with the applicable legislation and are also called competent people, as you repeatedly point out in your request for a call in the opposition. What bothers you is who they have collaborated with or shared political views in the past. To conclude, in the Desus Group, we are opposed to the political practice that we have witnessed in recent months by the opposition. Repeating the submission of the same bill proposals, filling the National Assembly with topics solely for the reason that you can appear in front of the cameras and, above all, the aggression of some against the coalition MPs is absolutely inappropriate and unworthy for everyone. I hope and appeal that such behaviour ceases immediately and that it also stops seeking attention in the media. When the time of the elections comes again, we will be able to reconcile ourselves honestly, but until then let us be respectful to one another, let us remain patient, and come together for the sake of all our inhabitants, whether small, but wonderful, country. Thank you and stay healthy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u43	Thank you very much. He will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u44	Good day to you all! When Mr Šarec took power, he said, "If I am elected and if I am elected, I will be responsible." And I'll take the shot. Which is logical and correct. But now that Mr. Sarec is no longer in this position, someone else is responsible and someone else is in charge. This is logical in every democratic country, except in Slovenia, which is increasingly being asked whether it is democratic, not because of the government, but because of the work of the opposition, which is destroying everything that should be built. If we look at the exchange, thank God that they are changing, because it is the exchange of incompetent personnel that have greatly damaged this country and which have brought enormous burdens to this country in the financial field, in the legal field, in the respect of the state of Slovenia in Europe and the world. Now we have fallen from below, almost to the bottom; and with this government we slowly rise to the position we were in in 1992, when we were a star in Europe and even wider. There's still a long way to go, but we have to get there by those who are now recruiting and changing bad personnel. I'd like to ask you which of those who were replaced is so quality that it's irreplaceable. Please. Which of these people can boast of outstanding results? There's not one of them. I think we should change a lot more people. Unfortunately, our laws are such that they do not allow it, and those who in previous mandates have been those who have been in the development and progress of Slovenia have remained in their positions, changed rooms, changed names and names; but remained in the ministries, which are thickening and where all these people are being delayed, because you cannot throw them out. You can't fire them. Although we would have earned that they were replaced in such a way that they were no longer in there. No, no, no. And then it happens that we have, say, the Ministry of Culture, which in 1992 had maybe a little over 40 people, today about 400 people. And these people are sitting in their rooms, in their offices, throwing sand between bicycles, which should lead Slovenia forward. Is that a development? Is that what we want? After all, when I was looking at my colleague Bandell, he knew there was a lot to be changed. And what happened to him when he started throwing out bad shots? His own client betrayed him, and his own client kicked him so I wouldn't say where. That he flew away and wasn't a minister anymore. Please, this is what's wrong with this country. Poor people need to be replaced, bad people need to be removed from their positions of power, no matter how they are written, which political structures they support and who is behind them. If someone is incompetent, they need to be replaced with a capable man. And here I am talking about this position today, about yesterday and tomorrow. Here you have to make one incision and sprawl, bring down the public sector of all those oaths that I know if anyone has seen a science fiction a few days ago, there were plenty of such oaths, but you could come to shoot in the Slovenian Parliament and the Slovenian government where you would find these oaths substantially more than in any film of science fiction. [[...]] Something has to be done here. And I'm not talking about this government right now, I'm talking about it in general; but it's particularly right that this government is the first one to start cleaning up to some extent. It is true, however, that a number of laws will have to be amended, because Slovenian laws are horrifying as far as they are concerned. And it is arranged for sloths, sloths, cheaters, and those who seek their way. No country has such a law, Slovenia has it. Because if someone is bad, they don't remove it from position, but they give him another position somewhere in one room where they get the same salary as before, or they do nothing or harm. That's what's wrong. Therefore, it is right to recruit differently to replace bad personnel. Poor staff should also be punished, sanctioned, not only by losing their position in the political sense or by losing their position in the workplace, but should also be hit financially. Because if someone did damage for like 9 million, as we read in the newspapers, someone who did not file a complaint because of their incompetence and had to pay huge amounts of money because of some sugar factory, we cannot transfer such a person to another office, but should be punished, it has to be sanctioned, because only then will the next one no longer do such things. But today they don't care, no one pays anything, no one's responsible, and this thing goes on and on and on and on. Let's say one case. See, for example, Mr Jenko should in his own right have resigned on the basis of the Constitutional Court's judgment on the repeal of the 70% tax rate. He didn't do it. The government has replaced him and the government has helped him here, she has done what he himself should have done if he had a position or if he had a position to be responsible for his country. How responsible is he for his country in Slovenia? Damn it. The devil's little, because the essence of the majority of the public sector and those in the public sector, this is a mecca, is about 30% of people who do nothing but draw and draw on the state budget. Inside this public sector, we should congregate these things, replace the inadequate personnel, send them home, thank them for their cooperation. If they have caused problems, then – gentlemen of goodness – pay for it. The country is not a dairy cow. The country is a responsibility and in this responsibility the public sectors must be the ones responsible. We're all in here because the state thinks there's something to be done; voters think we have to do something. Unfortunately, voters are often wrong and then we get in here strange individuals who don't know what they want; except they want either consciously or subconsciously to destroy this country and our only country. At least for me, it's the only country. For some of you, not everyone who thinks it's more important to have a full pocket than your own country, but I won't say it, but in Styria I would say a lot – go up your ass.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u45	Dear colleagues, I ask that we stick to some level of debate. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u46	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! Today, of course, this is not a meeting on some brutal recruitment, but it is a meeting that actually exposes the brutal transfer of the current opposition, for let us look at the proponent – the client of the List of Marjan Šarc. I quote. “If you don’t have the right people in the right places, you’ll have a hard time working,” said the prime minister. And that's what Prime Minister Marjan Sarec said on Slovenian television at the beginning of his term. That was the starting point he started with. Moreover, he added: “If I want to make a difference as a new person, then it is necessary to make a change.” That was even the address of that interview. Today, when this client is in another position, of course, he turns to his head. And when so clearly political personnel are changing and looking for more capable people who are ready and able to face the crisis we are witnessing, they are yelling at it and trying to stop it in every way. Why? Because the same Marjan Sarec said that if we wanted to make a difference, people have to be replaced. Clearly, the only interest of the opposition is that nothing changes, everything remains the same, which of course means that the opposition is consciously working Slovenia to the detriment. The reference itself, and all you've been listening to today, is just a diversion in the light of those words that I've just presented. If the transfer were to burn, with the free movement brought by the opposition to this national assembly today, it would be possible to warm Europe all winter. We are wasting time that we could usefully use to actually face all the burdens of Slovenia today. Of course, each government must make certain staff exchanges, any entrepreneur who has ever, at least as the owner, seen an enterprise from within, and of course anyone who has ever led any institution knows that he must put around himself a team that operates in a coordinated manner, which can at least be trusted by a minimum, that realizes what is the purpose and purpose of an institution, an undertaking or, if you want, a government policy. That is why every government has the right to make certain staff exchanges; and not only the right, but also the duty. What's interesting is this twisted logic that we've listened to on the board the last time and today again here. We are facing a crisis, we are facing a pandemic, and the government is dealing with human resources exchanges. Yes, because that is why it must speed up the human resources exchange so that capable people can come to the right places, as your Prime Minister once said they are able to implement the policy that Slovenia is in favour of and that they want it. Because anyone who's ever been in charge or, if you want, at least one company from within has seen as the owner, knows that it's not the biggest problem if you have one incapacitated; the biggest problem is if you have a capable saboteur who deliberately doesn't want to realize what you've decided to do. That is why, of course, changes are needed, so it is necessary and also for every government responsible to put such people in those places, so that they can function normally, because this is what the whole country normally does. This is a benefit to the State for a policy to be implemented, otherwise it is not possible to act. This applies from the smallest company to the country as a whole, so talking about some brutal behavior here and the like is, of course, pure contraband. In this regard, by the way, some very interesting numbers have been made: in a year and a half, the Charles government has made 240 personnel exchanges. This government has made them significantly fewer; it is nothing. The Pahor government once made 730 personnel exchanges within three months, and you can check this information in the newspapers. I think that the absolute record of Rob's government, which has made about 200 staff exchanges at one meeting, can also be traced somewhere in the media, as they were sometimes told. However, when we talk about implementation, we need to say this, then the Left always appears and distances itself from the conduct of the previous government, even though Sarec was elected solely and solely because of their votes. This quote is therefore worth reading. “It is necessary to give good leadership to public services. SDH,” says Slovenian State Holding, “must be more under the control of the government, which is a representative of the people and also the owner of these companies. And if you're a government owner, the Slovenian state holding company can't do it its way. SDH is obviously too independent.” Ladies and gentlemen, again Mr Marjan Sarc's quote, but this is what he said before he was elected Prime Minister of the Government, that is to say, this is the basis on which Levica, who today is talking about independence and all the other Flosculs that we are listening to, gave votes so that he could lead the Slovenian government for a year and a half before he, of course, threw his rifle into the corn and jumped on his head into an empty pool. That's how all such experiments end in an infamous manner. What is actually a Slovenian problem is that to a large extent there is negative human resources selection, that is something that has been withdrawn from the previous regime and that we have not yet completely gotten rid of. Today I was personally very pleased when the initiative by Professor Jambrek and others came in these days to reconsider the introduction of a two-way majority electoral system. I once proposed it not only but also brought it to Parliament. For the first time in the history of independent Slovenia, signatures were collected for the implementation of the referendum and this referendum was also obtained. Then, unfortunately, the Constitution has changed, and that follows all the negative things we're talking about. If the majority electoral system were to be a primary choice for human beings and only a secondary party, more responsibility would be incomparable, I firmly believe, at all levels in society and, more importantly, even between the institutions of society, the relationship would change. Not so much for the formal salary, but for real, which would be good. More responsibility would be better for Slovenia. If anything, that's what we need today. This is what we need when we talk about the assessments of what the proponents have proposed. They're putting NPUs first. Now let us ask ourselves what the NPU has actually done at this time to justify all that is being said today. NPU directors were also replaced, so what is happening now is nothing special and nothing is significantly different from the start of the NPU. But this is less important; it is important what is the effect of an institution, what it has done to carry out that task, which was then presented as its purpose. And I think we should ask very seriously, instead of a debate like this today, whether this institution has actually been proposed by those ideologies of this institution to investigate the biggest crime, or to cover up or cover up the biggest crime. Because all the most receptive investigations in Slovenia have been carried out by the criminal police. Tell me one very resounding one that has been successfully completed by the NPU. Moreover, many in Ljubljana – people say they are willing to testify if necessary – tells me that individuals from the NPU boast that they have not discovered anything in all years of their career at the NPU. This is something that should give them a lot of thought whether this institution is really established with a purpose that has been declared to the public or the purpose of something else; in particular, whether it justifies its existence. Would it not be better to combine it into a single criminal police system and make this hierarchical organisation as effective as possible? I think that would be worth considering, too. I've already suggested this to the minister at my committee meeting. He, as far as I know, is rejecting this right now, but this is also legitimate, and it would also be worth reconsidering, especially in the light of such claims as have been made here today. If we want to successfully face the current pandemic, if we want to succeed in doing what is our fundamental purpose, it is right to make a more efficient, development-oriented economy, even in these – in international terms – difficult situations, then, of course, it is necessary to put those who are capable to the best of places. Much could be done already with various changes under the current legislation, which might require further changes in legislation. But here today, let's say everything hangs on the same level. It does not mention what the current legislation regulates or where it restricts certain monopolies. Even in the field of media, if you want, say in the field of radio media. That's not a problem. The problem is everything else. And then it's said that the problem is interference with journalistic or editorial policy. I don't know who's supposed to do this, because besides the owner, no one can. But you can give your opinion. But if I give my opinion; just a little while ago, when I was making a statement there, I got a question about what it was like with a relative of mine who was supposed to own something. And there was already tension about nepotism, and I don't know what kind of insults there are; I don't know what kind of questions. Of course, I looked at it a little weird, and I answered it nicely. Then I checked things out. What a journalist should do, because a journalist is bound, for the first time, to a press code that says he has to check something, and, for the second time, the law. And even the law, you won't believe it, says you need to check something out. Well, I checked and, of course, that's not true. Not even one percent. There's nothing holding. It's a fantasy. It's a lie. And now you're telling me it's editorial policy. This is a crime, because a false charge of false qualifications, and so on, not listing all the elements, is part of the Penal Code. And here we are only on one level where we should all agree. Laws must be respected and the law must apply equally to all. But how could this be achieved if, even when it comes to such a fundamental issue as normal, the effective functioning of the government, including staffing, cannot be achieved by the fundamental consensus that some countries with a long, centuries-long democratic tradition have. Spoils system in the U.S., typical case. It is quite clear that someone who starts to do something will do his team; and that in key places you have to have people who you trust, whom you rely on, that, for the first time, they are capable and also willing to do what is the objective of an institution, government policy or the policy of a company. There are no fundamental differences here at all in this part of the workforce. “If you don’t have the right people in the right places, you’ll have a hard time working,” said Prime Minister Sarec. Then why did you call this meeting? To speed up these changes, for the right people really need to be put in the right places. Because if anything were a logical conclusion today, that would be the only one. Of course, you did not propose such a decision. You have only proposed conclusions that have gone in a direction that does not change anything that would be extremely bad for Slovenia. For the two things that took place at the board meeting and also here today still deserve a comment. The first question is, what is it like to have no personnel in health care? Why aren't there enough doctors? Why aren't there enough nurses? The answer is simple — because wages are too low. All wages in Slovenia are too low, ladies and gentlemen. Yours, all the employees, everyone in the company, all the wages are too low. Do you know what the comparison is that tells what the essence of this story is? Gorenjska's best comparison with neighbouring Austria. Gorenska was three times more developed by World War II than by neighbouring Austria, according to criteria. Then socialism came. And where is Gorenjska today and where is Slovenia today and where is Austria? That, ladies and gentlemen, is why wages are too low. And it is a disaster to live in a country where it is gravely serious to eliminate these most negative consequences of socialism as a solution offers even more socialism. What you might already be saying about the limitations of the human mind or that if you repeat one thing, after it's given negative results, and you repeat it over and over again and expect different results, that's the definition of human stupidity. Just read Albert Einstein. The second is, of course, the question of how we can prevent the consequences of the current pandemic. The representative of LMŠ spoke about this today, but the former Minister of the Sharčev government had much to say on the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not allow this, because I have been sending questions for a month in January, at the end of the month you are already telling the Slovenian government, the then Charche government and the European Commission why it does not restrict transport with China, why it does not implement preventive measures, in the first place a quarantine, why it allows free travel to continue. At that time, the pandemic could be stopped, ladies and gentlemen; and this is the most tragic part of this story that we are witnessing. But that's when it got out of hand. I have never received an answer from the European Commission, but I am not a European Member; if I were, maybe everything would be different, because then it should be answered. However, I have received such answers from the Slovenian government that I can read them to you for an hour. Live because I put it in live, and at board meetings and in writing. But nothing happened. Instead of introducing a quarantine, instead of closing borders at the time, and the pandemic across Europe, if the whole of Europe did so, could be avoided, tourists from Vuhan, the centre of the pandemic, were allowed to drive around Slovenia as of January. This was the conduct of the former government. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the question of how far you can see, and in the end, this is the essence of some sort of recruitment. And that's why I said I wouldn't allow it. There is a time before us that will be extremely difficult, which would require us to reach at least one minimum consensus in my opinion; and in most developed countries this is being done. And the last thing that comes into question is then whether someone at some point did everything to preserve the status quo, as is obviously in the interest of some, or whether they are looking for solutions that are then best for the whole country. Solutions that are either human resources or political. But to find the right political solutions, you must first have that human condition — the right people in the right places. That is why I said earlier that I am only sorry, in today's debate, I thought that we do not have in Slovenia a majority electoral system where a person, his personality, his knowledge and his values would be at the forefront. Each policy is always based on values. But to get to the system that would lead us to more responsibility, we can get to it, but I'm afraid we should change the referendum regime first. I have always advocated the Swiss model, by which the people have the first and last words, they can decide everything, even the constitution, under certain conditions; and, most importantly, once the people have decided, this is also true. The system itself is such that the decision is completely separate from decisions in the National Assembly or in Parliament and cannot influence in any way as a weapon for delaying proceedings. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, Switzerland is. This could be a common ground if someone were willing to talk seriously. Solutions that go in favour of Slovenia, which go in favour of development, which go in favour of prosperity, which go in favour of more security, including human resources solutions. Here you had your hand offered, repeatedly; you repeatedly rejected it. Nevertheless, it is still preserved. There is always a willingness on our part to talk and will always be ready to talk about all the key issues. It is only a question of whether we are all able to take this step over to prove that we are statesmen, that we know how to put our interests in the background and common interest, the interest of the state, the interest of the people in the front; for this, ladies and gentlemen, is the definition of a statesman. Personally, I will always do everything I can to make this respectable.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. First, the representative of the proposaler, Nataš Sukič, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. I have listened carefully to all these views, and I find that, of course, you try to deceive in these positions in many ways. Among other things, you talk all the time about how it's perfectly normal for you to change your frame, when all governments have done it. Of course, I myself have said this to the openings that it is not only about whose heads are cut down because, after all, all governments are in certain positions; it is also about who is put in key places in the country, which are those human resources criteria. And I will now illustrate this a little bit more visually in my debate. It is particularly about the fact that certain institutions, as far as human resources, political interventions are concerned, are autonomous, untouchable, not within the scope of this or that policy; it does not matter whether it is the Charles government, whether it is the government of Janez Janša, or whether it will be any other government. And in this light, when we mention it, we are particularly concerned about pressure on the NPU, because we should be an independent institution if we want everyone in this country — left, right, central — to really get to some of the worst crimes, the worst of them are really being investigated independently. As soon as politics interferes, either one or her, we can begin to very seriously question the impartiality of these investigations. Dear Minister, you said you did not know a case where the government would do its work in full compliance with the laws in the midst of the worst epidemic, and then such meetings would take place. The problem is, Minister, everything you do isn't exactly in line with the law. And that's what the experts have told you, and I'm going to have to tell you again right now in the debate I'm going to have to tell you where you've crossed the border of the law, where you've been able to afford things you shouldn't have. Of course, you did not directly employ these moves, but you were exerting incredible pressure throughout the hierarchy, from above down to the employees. It is simply referred to as the domestic pressure or intimidation of employees who are logically afraid for their existence. And it's just an unacceptable terror that's happening right now at the NPU. And I'll refresh your memory. In early August 2020, Minister-in-Charge, at the time of your resignation, you ordered the interim Director-General of the Police, Andrej Juric, to carry out a review of certain criminal investigations that had already been completed. And everyone alive has already told you why you shouldn't afford it. Because that's what you've done to the area of the judiciary. But you're not listening and you're still saying you were right. No, you were wrong. Then, a little later, on August 19th, a new pressure or attack on the investigators of the NPU was essentially carried out, namely, the extraordinary supervision of the protection and handling of classified data, which was ordered, of course, according to your will, by the Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Interior of Severin Pek. The Minister of the Interior, at the time of his resignation, and the head of the Inspectorate of the Ministry of the Interior, have in fact shuddered or stepped into an area where politics is in no way and never, irrespective of the government - left, right, any - should not have entered. And by doing so, Minister, you found yourself outside the marriage. Next time in the same month. First those instructions that went beyond the law and then that. Interior Minister Aleš Hojs, by order of the criminalist, to revise the procedures already completed by the NPU, crossed the border of a democratically permissible, which distinguishes the function of politics from that of the police. The provision for the revision of the procedures already completed is an illegal policy intervention in the work of the police and in the judiciary. And of course we can ask ourselves, and I've already asked myself that question on the committee, and I'm again wondering why they're opening up under the rug of a blurry thing that's always been interested in exactly the only SDS client. Affaira Patria, Zvon One, Zvon Two, money launderer at NKBM; credit deals with Dijana Djudžić, not. That's not what you're interested in, but that's what we're interested in. Mr. Secretary, how come you didn't order that? It's more than obvious where you're headed and why you ordered it. Most interestingly, we read in the media today that your audit does not bring, at least informally so, no special results. So what can I conclude from this? That you were exerting pressure on your employees to be under constant terror all the time, under some extraordinary condition. This is simply how people are subordinated and subordinated to an institution, an institution that is extremely important because it is the one that should detect the most serious crimes in this country and should not be directed by anyone. In short, your audits are dominated by those with whom you, respected members of the SDS, were mainly involved in the various investigative commissions – the rehabilitation of banks and abuses in the banking system, the veneers, the child's cardiology, not to mention the media house ProPlus, which is also in your nose because you want to change the media landscape. It is said that Channel A and POP TV should also be disciplined. But to go back to attacking the police, because it's not just that. This attack, which is somehow logical, follows clear objectives, in this way you want to stop investigating disputed transactions in which – because certain SDS representatives were the subjects – some key individuals from SDS and circles near Janez Janša are involved. This is how you want to discredit and eliminate criminals who have participated in these investigations and who obviously know too much. Otherwise it can't be explained. And that's why it's a very sensitive thing, Mr. Secretary, it's not like that. And this NPU isn't like that. This NPU is very important in all this story, in addition to all the other stories that they are. Unfortunately, these pressures in the work of the NPU police, despite this very turbulent summer event, have not yet seen the end. Now we are in a situation again, now the fourth person will be at the head of the NPU, your choice, regardless of the fact that he has no competence; even though you should actually return to this post to the director that you illegally dismissed. Again – an illegal, respected minister, without saying that everything is legal, in the midst of a serious epidemiological situation. It's not all legal. Therefore, the National Investigation Office is now in the process of obtaining the fourth Director or Director, since the temporary Director of Uroš Lepreš has, of course, resigned in early October, submitted a proposal for a discharge. I would if I were under that kind of pressure. I'm telling you, even your chosen ones don't stand up and give up, not unless they're your chosen ones. As it seems, and this is more than obvious, the sub-system of society and the demolition of independent institutions is a goal that you have clearly set yourself. A sufficiently trained and obedient enforcer and a grateful tool in your hands will obviously be your choice, which is not nearly fulfilled, does not have these competences that the predecessors had in this place, but will obviously be chosen. Clearly, because we know that someone who controls the police controls a lot of things, has a lot of political power and can indirectly influence the course of criminal investigations, which is supposed to detect the most serious economic and other criminal acts, which unfortunately often lead to politicians. And that's how the purpose is achieved. And from the new head of the NPU, I hope to argue, so the authorities do not expect to protect the work of criminals, to ensure the conditions for their smooth work, but on the contrary, with various levers they will have to try to stop or at least slow down the investigation of transactions, for example with protective equipment, which is now the most up-to-date and on which the fate of Zdravka Restalska and, consequently, the entire Janša government will depend. Makes sense. And that's what's actually going on. But, as it is said, you should return Dark Male to this place because the court annulled his unlawful release. Did you do that? No, no, no. Instead of heeding the ruling of the Administrative Court, what did you do? You have immediately issued an invitation to tender for the new director of the NPU and have even amended the conditions required so far. So, according to the new news, there is no longer a need for leadership experience but only work experience; and so obviously all the conditions have been adjusted, you wrote on the skin of the current V.D. Director, your choice, that is, the members of the SDS Petri Grah Lazar, who will thus, of course, meet these new conditions for the directorship. And now you're going to tell me it's professional personnel. Is that professional? Is it that to the most demanding and complex jobs you give not sufficiently experienced and not enough experienced people? Is that professional? Well, that's not professional. It's political recruitment. Dear Minister Hoys, who is constantly claiming how the NPU works politically, how it should be depoliticized. With these moves you do not depoliticize him, but you do the same or worse – you are very politically interfering with this body. And just forcing Petra Grah Lazar, these chosen ones and also women who have been in contact with Roko Sněžič all the time, one of the biggest tax debtors who has been investigated in several countries to understand each other, these are the personnel in such places because of her, which is why David Antolović's assistant had to be transferred to a special working group for migration. And this special task force on migration is the farce of all farce, as it has itself been moved by top criminals alongside Antolović, led by the former Director General of the Mag Police. Tatjano Bobnar, which, of course, you removed immediately. Okay, that's what these governments are doing, I'm not gonna say anything, but a special task force, you could say, is a criminal battalion for people who are disturbed, this special task force for migration. And there is something interesting about this group. The media, under the Public Information Access Act, asked for a document appointing the Deputy Director-General of the Andrej Jurič Police to the Government Migration Group, who also appointed this Assistant Director of the National Investigation Office. You told them that you do not have this document or that this document does not exist; imagine. By making such a statement, it is clear that Andre Jurič is lying because nothing can really happen without the paper. That's what I'm asking you to say to the media, that's the absurdity of all absurdities. In order to relocate or establish specific groups, there must simply be documents and that such a document does not exist, it cannot mean otherwise than that the Assistant Director of the NPU Jurič has not selected him for this criminal group but has been chosen by policy. And even though Jurič can deny it a hundred times now, it has actually revealed the truth. And this is where we caught you good at lying again. After all these peripetions that I describe, but I have very few described them, there could be many more, no wonder that even Beauty has lost his nerve and patience and it is easy because they wanted not to know who all the senior police officers past him to direct the work of the Police and the work of the NPU; among them are the very leaders of Vojko Urbas, who was the first month of the government of Janez Janša appointed as interim director of the Directorate of Criminal Police and so on. I think that with all the pressure, interference and things I've described, it's logical for a man to step down; so would I. It's just impossible to handle, and that's what's been going on. In just a few months, this literally political scarecrow is happening to all of us in front of the NPU. And the NPU is just one of a number of cases that are controversial. My colleague will probably keep talking about it, otherwise I can do it later in the next debate. The objective of all these pressures is more than obvious: the cessation of the NPU as we know it, and in particular the prevention of all investigations that are not by the year of the ruling SDS party, or the opening of those cases that could be used by the SDS parties in the future as ammunition to deal with political opponents, that is. Use of the NPU for household use, privatisation of the NPU, if you want, or simply privatisation of the country as such. In short, the fact that this event will indeed be unequivocal shows that the police summit continues to implement the SDS plan for de facto abolition of the NPU in the form it was set up. I will remind you that Prime Minister Janša, in response to the question of the victory of Jelinčič in mid-July, or an NPU investigator in Azerbaijan, gave a gift that the NPU was set up as a political project. I quote the Prime Minister: “This is an organ that is outside the system. First, it must be depoliticized so that they do not set themselves a task.” Please kindly, an autonomous institution that must be autonomous if it really wants to investigate things, and now the Prime Minister will tell you how he will depoliticise it. Yeah, so he'll probably set up Petra Grah Lazar at the head of the NPU, great. There's been a terrible depoliticization of the organ. It is crystal clear to us in Levica that the objective of all these politically motivated frauds – and with not too many artificial frauds, even though you may think you are very clever at this – and of course all these abuses are the ultimate and complete submission of the Police and the NPU. Of course, we do not pretend that this will last until you reach out to your party, the ruling SDS, to get all the information and to obtain all the confidential information relating to the investigation of the people of the coalition or anyone associated with the SDS. This was clear even before your government even had its first session; already those threats to Mahnich and that shopping were clear. It was already clear in advance what was going to happen. I am just sorry that this will not be without consequences, that this will have very long-term negative social consequences and that you are literally holding a candle to coalition parties. You just buried your head in the sand like an ostrich and you always pretend that it's nothing and it's nothing changing and the attack on RTV Slovenia is nothing, and the attack on the NPU is nothing. And with your ostrich posture, you will allow this dismantling of social sub-systems and ultimately the suspension of democracy. Or you will allow the scenario performed by Viktor Orban in neighbouring Hungary. Later on, some other details. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u49	The text shall be delivered by a representative of the proposer, Nick Prebil. Then he gets the word from a government representative, Aleš Hojs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'd have responded on my own on behalf of the proposer. There's already some of the principles of colleague Sukič. First of all, let me say that I actually agree, or the Minister has taken from my mouth one sentence, namely that this is a historic meeting from two perspectives. And the first is that, for the first time in the history of our independent Republic, Members who cannot be present because of health aspects or any other, this time it is a health aspect that they decide for a distance. And the other aspect is that we're talking about human resources. Of course, there is a fundamental difference here. To talk about the staffing, the staffing of the government of Janez Janša during the crisis, once again, during the health crisis, the epidemic that is currently taking place in our country. And at this very time, this government obviously has — what we have seen — more than enough time for a number of human resources exchanges in all areas. And then there are coalition parties and government representatives here wondering why we're here today. I think that the key question is – and I suggest that you rather ask yourself – how can it be, in the face of such a serious situation as we have, a situation that could probably be prevented in at least one part by what is enough time for government staffing, media accounting, and the judiciary. Today we have heard a number of attacks against the opposition, because what happened is exactly what I hoped it would not happen. All coalition partners representing the position, as well as representatives of the government, have turned the board and taken the matter to a place where it was not meant to go, that is, to divert attention and search for culprits elsewhere; except where they are, to themselves. And the agenda, folks, you've written these sessions yourself or you're still writing them because what you're doing is really beyond all the limits of good taste. The minister said the government did its job and did its job. If the government had done its job, respected, then Slovenia would not have faced such an increase in the number of infected. We are a third country by proportion infected by the ECDC. If the government had done its job, we would not be discussing the lack of beds in hospitals today, after the wrong purchases of medical equipment, after problems in DSOs and so on and so on and so forth. And if the government were to do its job, today, your honor, there would be no such meeting. And if these people you've talked about in these positions were really professional, with appropriate competences, then today we wouldn't be talking about collapse of the whole system. I would only touch on a few short discussions of respected colleagues or discussions in the works they have said in their positions. On the part of the NSI, it was really just a compliment on the account of what their ministers had done. I am pleased that you are praising the projects entirely designed by the Sharčev government, which is indeed good, and I am pleased that you are taking these projects forward. This is a sign that the government of Mariana Sharca has done well. Finally, we have left your country in excellent condition, and we see where this country is today. I'd like to touch a colleague from Desus. It's a little two-faced that someone who's been sitting in the government of Mariana Sharca is talking about it. I agree, however, that we must definitely stand together. It really saddens me that every time we step together or we want to give the opposition a hand, over 300 amendments are proposed, we simply get a slap from your side. What you're actually doing is really repulsive. Of course, the minister mentioned that the previous government had made more than 240 exchanges in about 18 months, and I think the SDS representative mentioned that. Now I would really like you all to listen carefully to me in this National Assembly, including those at home and the media you're monitoring. On the Committee on Home Affairs, which took place exactly one week ago, some representatives made themselves known with a list of the so-called 252 staff exchanges in the government of Marjan Sarca for almost 19 months as it ruled. We saw they even printed it. Environmental awareness is obviously still foreign when it comes to political discredit and drowning. It was even heard that this time the government of John Janša made only 40 exchanges in seven months, bringing about 140 exchanges during a comparative period. And now here I say clearly and loudly that this is a deception and this is actually a lie. After reviewing and compiling publications from the government’s website – we took time to look at them – the government of Janez Janša only made over 420 appointments within seven months, without committees, and these are an additional 323, if added. This is data from a government website, respected, and nobody's making it up. So once again, more than 420, 424, if we're absolutely accurate. And what we're listening to today is a complete diversion of attention to your abject desire for power. And that's more than obvious today. I will conclude at this point and look forward to further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u51	Thank you very much. A representative of the government, Minister Alesh Hoys, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will begin where Mrs Sukič has somehow laid a whole series of questions, and I say just after the introduction again, and I hope that this will not have to be repeated again this afternoon. The government at the NPU hasn't replaced anyone. I've said that many times. The Director or the V.D. Director of the Police shall have the responsibility for the exchange at the NPU. It is the responsibility of the government to replace the Director of the Police on a proposal from the Minister, to replace the Directors of Directorates and nothing else. For the last time on the board, in the media, I don't know where else, in your papers, if I say so myself, there's an indication. I think Mr Prebil mentioned it several times the last time, but if we did, or if we did, we ended, as it were, the required leadership experience for the Director of the NPU. Now, I'm going to read you the record of the Director of the Personnel Office I requested at the time, and I'm going to read it this time, and I hope you won't have to read it three times. “With regard to the allegations in some media that the conditions for this job have been changed compared to the previous call, we explain that this is not true in any way, since the conditions for the appointment of the Director of the National Investigation Office are laid down in the public tender, which was last published by 27. 10. Completely equal conditions have been published for this job in previous public competitions. Even more, the only public contest that was different from this was the public competition held by Mr Vinko Gorenak in 2013." In fact, there was also a demand for leadership experience. Since then, there has been no public tender that would require leadership experience in the tender itself. So, obviously, the invitation to tender, where this is not required, is appropriate in the time of the left-wing governments and is not appropriate in the time of the right-wing government. To continue; "in public competitions, we always define only the conditions laid down for each job by the applicable legislation and are consequently defined in the act on internal organisation and systematisation of jobs. In view of the fact that, in accordance with the current legislation, management experience is not a condition for the employment of the Director of the National Investigation Office, neither in this nor in previous public competitions has it been explicitly required for this job.” I don't know who's giving you reminders, but I could have tried so hard to see if the previous calls were like I just said, whether you've been here for 14 days or three weeks. But the fact is, the fact is, and this was the same in all of the calls; when you open the call, you have a link there to the standards of the Official Council that talks about it. The fact is, however, that Standards of professional competence with selection criteria and methods of checking the qualifications of officials in public administration positions of 11. 4. 2016, hereinafter, the standards used by the Official Council in the conduct of the proceedings provide that the candidate should normally meet the condition of three years of managerial experience in this field or in the related field in the public or private sector. In all public competitions for the situation published by the Ministry of the Interior, point 2 makes it clear, and in all cases it is equally stated, that candidates must also attach their application to the complete completion of the CV, from which the fulfilment of management and work experience in accordance with the standards must be particularly evident. So I hope that this part, this chapter, as far as the invitation to tender, which is not the same as the previous one, is completely the same as six, seven last, this time completed. So it's no different than the last six. Many times today the thesis has appeared, as Mr Prebil also said in the introduction, Mrs Sukič has repeatedly said that by subjugating the NPUs, certain investigations should be stopped. And someone can tell you which investigations are supposed to stop. I have repeatedly called on the National Investigation Office and the Police, including publicly – Mrs Sukič, you will remember this, even on that committee, hearing, for the first time, when you gave me some illegal funding and I do not know what to do – to publicly call on the Police and the NPU to investigate this as soon as possible and as closely as possible. I have repeatedly called on them to investigate as closely as possible and as precisely as possible what is going on in the Slovenian state forests. I've called on them many times, in this case, even if I've asked for an audit, not that they're not working, but that they're doing better. And you talk about this, this is how you said – "all living" told you that things are illegal. I don't know what "all living" are. I must say that out of the "all living" I can also list ten prominent lawyers, from Boštjan M. Zupančič onward, who said that this introduction of the audit is perfectly legal. At the final stage, however, the lawfulness or illegality is decided by the court, not "all living", about what you say. You were talking about the audit that discussed how to manage how to deal with classified data at the NPU. You said exactly, this audit was directed by the Chief Inspector of MNZ and it was to determine whether, say, employees carry home computers and what they shouldn't do, actually manage home; how they protect secret data and so on. And look at the fraction, today it is you who are looking at yourself, or here you represent the statements 24ur.com, I have already said this several times, apparently the house medium of the NPU, which speaks of the fact that the results of the audit did not give anything that I requested, whether the secret information at the NPU is treated competently and appropriately or not. Is it more right to report on an audit that is not yet completed, which I am not aware of, even though I requested it, first on the NPU’s home media, that’s on 24ur.com?Oh, my God! If you ask me, the secret information doesn't work the way it should if everyone else, especially you, finds out things before they should, those who should report to them. And your statements about why Bell One doesn't open, and Bell Two to Patria to go on like that. Your Honor, this is the last time I've tried to explain this to you. Look, Patria, Bell One, Bell Two, all these proceedings, all these cases got one way or another in court. Everybody. It was everyone's turn that started the process. In all those where I have asked for an audit to see how it is possible, in the case of such eminent violations of the law that you have found here, in this House, through parliamentary investigations, this case has not even come to the court, not in children's cardiology, not in overpaid veneers, not in POP TV, which is so cheerfully now collecting some unofficial information, so the title says – unofficial information, from reliable sources we have learned. So it's terribly good to deal with classified data at the NPU, incredibly good, in fact, I could say that it's great. So all the people you gave me got a trial or some final decision in court. All the people I asked to be audited didn't even get there. The real nonsense is when you tell me that I want something to stop, something to stop, I stress again, I don't know what I stopped, give me an example when you tell me – this is what you asked me to stop – and at the same time tell me that I asked for a review of the procedures to do something. At the same time, say, requires that something be stopped; at the same time, say, what has already been done, but do not touch again. Either that's the only thing that hurts because it's required that the NPU doesn't order everything or do what it needs to do. You also said this, among other things, is your sentence – the NPU is the institution that is supposed to pursue crimes most independently. And once again, what crimes have been committed in the last four or five years that have ended or are being tried in a court of law have the NPU investigated? Let me know which one. We have the most eminent experts there, the best paid, and TES 6 did not do NPU. We don't know what's going on in Slovenian forests. Apparently, that's not what the NPU does. What's wrong with stealing millions of amounts in the procedures for purchasing vascular resistors, not working NPUs or completing NPUs, with a message that nothing was wrong. Tell me one case that the NPU has made in the last four or five years. I'll be happy if you tell me. But I can tell you at least two, three, where things seem to be going a lot better. Political investigations, NPU. The Eminent Criminal Society for the Investigation of the Worst and Worst Crimes is investigating the parliamentarians of the Slovenian National Assembly. This is the worst thing that can happen in this country. And that's those parliamentarians who supervise the NPU. Unbelievable. And they're obviously trained there and they're working fast. I think in a few months, if I'm not mistaken, they've both been snitching, both Tonin and Mahnich. So expressly, effectively, the work of the most skilled criminalists. You also said or somehow you wanted to suggest that this group that is supposed to be dealing with migration is some kind of criminal battalion, or something like that. If these people are the most qualified people in this country to lead the Police or have been the most qualified because, say, Mrs Bobnar, we have replaced Mr Lindav and are not in his place of work, then I do not understand why these people who are so powerful should not, or could not, do what is in fact also a great rakrana of this country; that is, dealing with illegal migration, making suggestions on how to improve things, advise the Director of the Police, to give a possible suggestion to the Minister in order to write appropriate guidelines. These people were not appointed by the Police Director, Mrs Sukič, they are not. These people were appointed to the government, in accordance with the law, not only from the police, including people from the Soviet Union, including people from the ODS, so a whole bunch of people who could or should contribute to better migration management. And hold what you said. True, some of these people were suggested by the police in writing and something oral; or that I would be more precise and one orally. And I don't see any problem with that. So it's not the police he calls. She named the government. The Government appointed those appointed by the Ministry of the Interior or by the Police on a proposal from the Police Director. The same was true in Owl and the same was true in the ODS. And let me finish this part. When you talk about invitations and dates, this last invitation to tender you're talking about didn't start at 27. Ten. This invitation to tender began in the same way as any invitation to tender. Perhaps I should also explain that this may be clearer too, any call for office of any director of the Directorate, the Police Director or the head of the body in the composition shall be made on the basis of a public invitation to tender. At the time the term of office expires, in the event that the term of office expires, the chairman shall have the right even to appoint the person who once went through a procedure without a call for tender; if he does not do so, he shall be entitled to appoint the head of that director or body in the composition; and at that time he shall also start a public competition. However, the public tender does not begin by the Minister issuing the invitation to tender, but begins by informing the Official Council, this is a special committee, that this public tender should be launched. After this Council of Officials first of all, you have a list of who is in the Council of Officials, appoints a commission, this commission then determines what the invitation to tender will be; and the invitation to tender shall be made accordingly. And this call, which is currently published, for the Director of the NPU is actually the one whose procedure started with the non-name of Lindava and not Lamberger at the last call. Also, these claims, which you somehow state, that at the time of the release of the Male, we have made a new call, I can give you a completely different story here with dates, namely 12. 8. We have put forward a proposal for a settlement or a public tender for the NPU. 11. 10. Mr NPU was dismissed because he wanted to do so; not because he was replaced by the Director. Sam wanted to get rid of him so he wouldn't do it again. The competition, which was published by 27. 10. In fact, it is that competition that we have already put forward a proposal to launch 12. 8. Why are the invitations taking so long, I wonder. I might be interesting to tell you when people apply for public service competitions, so not only on this one, but also on someone else, and then this person tells you he's stepping down, even though he's been chosen, you can't choose the next one that was most suitable by the points. You can't. That's the law we have. A new invitation has to be made. It takes four or five months to get someone back. Unlike invitations to tender in the European institutions, where you can not only take the next one in a row, but within six months you can select anyone from this list if the invitation to tender is similar or requires the same professional education or competence as was required by the existing invitation to tender. This competition is a competition that began on 12. 8. and will be completed when the Official Council assesses, on the basis of applications, which of the candidates is appropriate and who is not. It is true, however, that, when the Official Council says — one, or three, are appropriate; in the final stage, the decision on whom it chooses is at the chairman. So it's not on the Officials Council, but it's on the chairman. However, he may decide to choose one of those he proposes or none of them. The Police Director will be the one who, on the basis of the proposals of the Official Council, will choose or not to choose the one that the Official Council will propose to him in the coming weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The representative of the proposaler Nataš Sukić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u54	Dear Minister Hoys. No offense, but you're looking me in the eye and you're lying in my face. Now, I'm going to list the facts, because apparently everything you've said is quite something. Turn around a little bit on your own. First of all, the SD MP, today the media are also reporting this, you have lied and deceived yourself in the answer to the question that you sent, as I now do here. Although you have received accurate information from the Police on the outcome of the completed internal security procedure, this is in this regard, you have replied to the Member that the procedure is still under way. And you looked him in the eye, just like you did me now, and you claimed it was so. Now you claim that a new call for the director of the NPU was issued on Wednesday, although on Friday you assured the Police by letter that you had approached the conclusion on Dark Male who had arrived. But you announced a new invitation on Wednesday. So don't tell me you published it on August 12. I'm talking about the invitation to tender that was issued on Wednesday. And what's different about this invitation than you've just told me? In this invitation to tender, you have actually changed the terms and conditions, and do not consider them to be the same as before. And I'm going to quote you because you're literally making this up. Therefore, as Leben says, “they have already made a proposal to stop the call.” They say they're going to try to stop this call. The invitation to tender is also interesting because it has changed the tendering conditions. After the new, leadership experience is no longer needed, but only work experience. Of course, since Petra Grah did not solve any of the cases herself, she does not have the necessary competence in her work history to do so, so of course everything had to be adjusted. Apparently, the conditions that are written on the skin of current Director Petri Grah Lazar will thus meet the conditions for the directorship. And you're looking at me and lying to me about the exact same conditions. No, it's not. Unless all the media are already clouded and they don't know what they're writing; but you're the only one who's speaking right. And you didn't lie to the SD MP, either, but that's probably what the media invented again, isn't it?Oh, my God! Now you tell me. You're looking at me and you're literally lying to me, Your Honor, and that's just not right. And when I told you "all are alive", a lecturer at the Faculty of Security Sciences, say Miroslav Žaberl about this type of change in conditions, he said: "And if the current invitation is actually adapted to one candidate, then I can assess this as nothing but human resources corruption, which is totally unacceptable." That's what the experts say. That's not what I invented, sir. At the same time, you continue to explain to the police that you are still exploring different options for the implementation of the judgment and so on. Mainly – mix the fog, respectable. Darko Male has been suspended unlawfully, of course you have not suspended him directly, but your elected Director General of the Police has done so, normally, that your extensions, your supervisors have performed this. And that's what I'm talking about. That's why this is ridiculous. This is what we would say on RTV Slovenia – because we did not cut off editors and journalists, no, no, no, this was done by the new CEO, the new director general. Of course, the one you will or will set up when you cut off the Kadun. And that's how you do it and move around here and look me in the eye and tell me stories and think we're all down from the moon. No, we're not, Your Honor. You can see and know exactly what's going on; and you're going too far in this, that's all I'm going to say. Too far because you're walking around a terrain that's actually sensitive. This is about investigations involving, excuse me, people who are close to your client. And you have the face of me watching and doing, pretending that everything is clear and that everything is okay and that your instructions are all right and your extraordinary controls are all right, it's nothing illegal, you're doing legally in the middle of an epidemic. And we, the rude opposition, dare to question you here and doubt you at all, I mean, something like that. Unheard of. Do you think you're so smart; that we're all so stupid?Oh, my God! No, we're not, Your Honor. And what I have read to you is written by the media, who have obtained information after they have asked you, in accordance with the Public Information Access Act. These are your answers to the media. Now you tell me who's kidding around here and who's making this up? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word is from a government representative. Minister Alesh Hoys, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u56	If I understand you correctly, Mrs Sukič, first of all, I would like to say that I have never talked about the fact that you have no right to ask anything here. You didn't hear that from my mouth. Second thing, I'd really like to know what you're talking about. You are now talking about what the media are saying about the call to the Male, or what they are saying to the Backovic question? I'll explain both. [[advertising from the hall]] Both. Well, if it's both, it's even nicer. What the media is writing about the Male, I don't know; all I know is what our professional service has prepared, which she said, has signed under the fact that all the calls in the last few years are identical to the Director of the National Investigation Office. So if they're lying to me, then I'm lying to you. But I don't believe it. I don't believe that our staff would lie and say something that isn't true. But if it's written by the media or if it's written by the Male's lawyer, of course it's understandable. This is probably in the spirit of the process of discrediting the minister and the ministry and so on. Mr. Zaberl – an on-call professor for our government or for me – you say, said that if such an invitation were arranged for one, it could have signs of corruption and so on. Mrs Sukič, Mr Male has been chosen on such an invitation to tender. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr Majhenič, who also applied for this invitation, was told that he would not be selected. The invitation to tender has been repeated. Mr. Male was the only one reported, the only one. Did not others have any interest in ordering others to be known in advance and that there was no point in applying? Mr. Male was chosen on the call because he was the only one who was reported. I do not claim that the invitation to tender was made for him because I claim that all these tenders have been the same over the last few years. And I don't think that's a problem at all, Madam Members, to check. We print a year's notice when Mr Male signed up and print the current invitation to tender, see if they are the same, but it is. And then you can talk about whether I think you're crazy – and I don't have you, and I don't want to have you – or maybe the media think it's different. But as for Mr. Baković, what you're telling me is that I've said otherwise. It's true, I said it differently than the police said. I guess I have a right to say something different than what the police say. Do you think the minister is at work to take what the police have said is signed below, read nothing, and move on? Ma'am, I have here a letter from the Special Prosecutor's Office dated 27. Ten. 2020, that is, when all the answers were ready; where the Special Prosecutor's Office asks me what is the matter with these allegations of an individual being accused of borrowing 6,000 euros from him and not returning them. That's what the police say didn't happen. But I said at the time that the person who reported this should also be heard that we have no business here, as the Special Prosecutor's Office says, that a police officer had borrowed 6,000 euros from someone. Look, this guy's not somebody else's name and name on someone's NPU. And that name and last name are known to the police. I don't know why the D.A. says he's an unknown unsub and they don't know who he is. If he was unknown, then I don't know how they checked in with him if he borrowed the money; because then they can't check it out, then they can just say – in everyone at the NPU, we looked for someone to borrow it, and we found that no one did. This gentleman signed his name and surname, all of which was waived to the police by the signature of my Secretary of State of Kangler. And I believe that the U.S. Attorney's Office will investigate the matter to the extent that we don't talk about an unknown offender with someone and so on. By the way, they can't even write my last name – Hojc, I hope I won't be that coastal criminal who has a similar last name soon. At least that would be the right thing to do if they couldn't do anything else. Madam, this story will continue anyway, this story about Mr Bakovic will continue. He again addressed our ministry of questions and we will answer his questions. But I believe that SDT will do something as soon as possible. We have a name and a last name of a cop who's supposed to borrow money. We have the guy who gave it to us. The case is clean for me. Don't expect me to give every answer the police will give if I have an application on the table, on the table sent to the Ministry by a man who signed it, and on the other hand, by a police internal check-up that said it wasn't any of what he put under the rug. No, things are going on, things should go to the D.A. and the D.A. find out whether what the gentleman said he was hoping to sign, or what the police are saying is true. It's the only way we can get to the end. By the way, even in the Iran money laundering investigation – this is what the police carried out, not revisions, but supervision, was carried out – a lot of irregularities were found. And then, in the time of Minister Györkös, the police sent all the suspicions of the crime to SDT. What SDT did, I don't know; but the Ministry's supervisors found out here. Or perhaps the prosecution will say again — well, the problem is ours, let's sweep it under the rug. Mrs Sukič, I really don't mean to lie to you here or anything, but I will tell you the fact and I suggest we check these facts. As I said, the easiest thing to do is to print one and the other calls to find out whether the media may be misreporting, or maybe Mr Male's lawyer is bluffing, or not to hold on to what our Head of Legal Services wrote to me and I read it to you; I also allow this option, then of course we will replace someone.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Anya Bah Žibert has the word. Get Lydia Divac Mirnik ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u58	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary of State! Now one seriously wonders why this is sitting. You used to say that it wasn't a problem with the frame-up. Any authority that has reached this point has somehow taken care of those human resources measures that they believe would contribute to the work they have envisioned. You're picking up some political personnel. I don't think that LMSH and SD should come from any of this because you're completely unworthy. Let me remind Secretary-General Yauszevac of the SD party, which was carrying a human resources key. I don't know if it was professional recruitment, but it was political recruitment. LMŠ’s secretary, the King, called and determined who was to be a director. I'm sorry, I doubt it was the only thing. It is true, however, that information came to the public on this matter, and then, of course, the story followed, because there is no defense for such a thing. But let's leave it, the fact is, today you're reading this government's staffing and you're reading its operation. Let's go in a row, respectable opposition. Would there be any of these personnel if you hadn't thrown a rifle into the corn after 19 months? Your Prime Minister, Prime Minister Marjan Sarec, I say this to all then coalition parties, said – there is nothing that can be achieved with you. It hasn't been fair enough to say – I'm incompetent, I'm not good; but he pointed to the other coalition partners with his finger. These are the media records. That's not what Anja Bah Žibert remembered. If you have acted so well, if you have all the human resources changes that you have made for the good of the country, in your opinion, why after 19 months capitulation, and in very difficult times for this country. What's more, you're basically, if I say by that river, eating yourself. You had to replace eight ministers. They have retreated as mushrooms grow in the rain. Some people haven't gotten to the right hearing, but you had to change your staff proposal fast because you were smiling. But that was your human resources, that was your human resources. How did you eat yourself? Even so, you have been separated from your president by your closest associates. Let me remind you of Vojmir Urlep, who was somehow in charge of coordination. He himself said that due to certain staff exchanges in certain state-owned companies, especially Petrol and Telekom, which had taken place without him, he could no longer participate in such a cabinet. Roman Kirn, the secretary of state responsible for foreign policy, also resigned. You didn't just change people, you literally got away. Your ministers have left you, your associates have escaped, but that is not why the then opposition or today's coalition is not to blame. It was just your way of working, and apparently the people didn't find themselves in it. Allow me to say something, however, about what you said the government was supposed to be dealing with nothing but an epidemic. These are calls against respect for the government law. The government is also responsible for a lot of other things, and that is why this government takes responsibility and does so with responsibility. But these calls against respect for the government law have almost gone far beyond that. True, but most of all, we focus on dealing with an epidemic that has surprised everyone. If this second wave were only in Slovenia, I could still accept your criticisms; I cannot do so. I can't do that either because the government started making recommendations in a timely manner, and you know exactly how individuals reacted, including from political circles. I ask you not to speak populistly about the fact that the government has not taken care to increase human resources and spatial capacity. Tell me, you've been in power for 19 months – how many staff capacity in health care have you increased? What did you upgrade or at least start building? Today, this government is struggling to build a piece that has spent ten years alone. It was nothing. And today you are saying that this government should take care of human resources within three months. Yes, very simply, let's clone the doctors. And that I continue here in this great fight for fighting the epidemic; then I call on you to convene your next project as an urgent meeting of the Committee on Culture, namely RTV Slovenia. Why? You're not disturbed by the red number of RTV, but it has to be yours. You don't mind that they've paid 770,000 euros in allowances, you don't mind the conflict of interest where the editor and her husband have earned almost a million euros. But if all this does not bother you, you should be disturbed by the article that RTV Slovenia has enjoyed and is a lie about doctors. We have witnessed once again their great protest and the demand that not only be apologized, but that RTV Slovenia as a national television focus only on reporting, and this comprehensive reporting on the covida-19 case. These are the doctor's calls. I didn't hear them backing up. Of course, you like to talk about how they are now in the front row and how they save lives. This is also how they should not only be supported, but also in some way by helping to ensure that at least on national television contributions are objective and, above all, to help contain the epidemic. Most of all, you've got a lot of hair on your hands with the NPU. In fact, in a way, I think that's all there is to it. NPU, NPU, NPU, NPU. But before I do this NPU, let me remind you of some of your personnel decisions. I'm not reading these personnel decisions, but I'm seeing what kind of people you've put on certain functions. If we start with ODS. That's interesting. You've recruited a new director of the ODS, but that wasn't enough. Shortly after his appointment, a deputy was appointed, a person close to your Damir Črnčec, also happened within the network of movements. Špela Boc, a close associate of Damir Črnčec, took over the management of one of the sectors. A close associate of Damir Črnčec also appeared in Petrol. That's interesting, but you've only recruited professionally. Owl – it wasn't enough to change the director. Only in such a service, which is very sensitive, and we know that it has to be highly verified, has it even been staffed, as well as the famous Fine N example. These are your human resources purchases and added value for the two services mentioned for example. Next, today you're taking a big deal out with the Minister of the Interior, sometimes you get the feeling that he's back on the interpolation, but that's not why. His answers are so much better. Let me remind you what your interior minister was doing. Again, I'm not talking about not changing, or not naming people in my office. It's his right, but look at your personnel quality. Former police officer Franci Kregar, responsible for serious irregularities in the work of criminals in civilians, received a position of trust in the office of Interior Minister Poklukar. And what did the officer in question, France Kregar, reveal to him? But here I would hope to ask in some way, beg, Levice, to tell me how there are such double standards, for I have not heard them in this matter. However, I will tell you what has been evident to the said person, who has been employed in the cabinet of the Interior Minister. This is not a media record, this is a monitoring report – “The Ministry of the Interior in the supervision of 2017 has found serious irregularities in the work of Kregar’s criminals. These range from the illegal entrapment of individuals and the tracing of any suspects, to the suspicions of creating police documentation, illegal drug seizures and carrying out house investigations that could jeopardise the validity of evidence in a court of law.” This person was your Minister of the Interior's closest advisor. But your interior minister wasn't happy with that either. Your candidate for MP, Mr. Rupnik, had to be hired in the office. It's not a problem that he's been rehired. The problem is elsewhere that the trade unions which referred the matter to the KPK and the Court of Auditors have been alerted to this employment. It is also interesting that Mr Rupnik, as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers, did not operate in the Cabinet of the Minister, but, with respect, in Gotenica, in the training centre of police officers. That's where he had his seat. What was he actually doing? There was no answer to the question of the media asking that question, because no one could tell exactly why it was there. People from that end, I'm gonna say pond-cotch, but they're gonna know a lot of things to tell you. But I don't think that's appropriate for this national council either. These were your human resources. With these human resources potentials, you have been saving and working Slovenia more successfully. Of course, it's no wonder you threw a rifle into the corn after 19 months. But what's worse is you couldn't even get a normal government meeting without arguing. Remember the energy and fights Charec-Alenka Bratusek. Shalabaiser! One way or another, it was just a matter of who has the primacy over the electrical system and who will be the one who decides which supervisor is going to sit. But neither did Anja Bah Žibert. It's in the media. But there is something, dear colleagues and colleagues, that you can hardly find it in the so-called national media. That wasn't a problem for anyone. It was part of the folklore of the change of personnel, which is what every government does. That's a really professional change of personnel. I'm gonna finish this, yeah. I think that Mrs Sukič spoke about the Minister's direction on the investigations, because I said that in the end I would only touch the NPU, that it was illegal. You're referring to an SD advisor. He wrote it down. He wrote that down, and we've already talked about it at the interview. And it wasn't written on behalf of the Faculty of Security Sciences, but the Faculty of Security Sciences forwarded this to this person and then this person responded. The Faculty of Security has nothing to do with this answer. This is his record, but he's a known member of the SD or at least he was. Don't talk to me about expertise when we're talking about members of certain political options. And the staff, respectable, as far as national television is concerned and so on. Tell me when or how you answered when even eminent lawyers, one of them was also a candidate for a constitutional judge, who you supported, who was signed under the fact that Charec exceeded his powers when he spoke publicly about where anything should be advertised and in which the media should not be advertised. This is a serious intervention, Your Honor. That the President of the Government is talking about where some state-owned companies can advertise and where they can't. It's an intervention! But not a fair exchange of systems, as we know, controlling, programming and so on. But it's all in the media. And for the end, ladies and gentlemen, just this. This, in turn, flies mainly to the client of the LMSH. Statement by Mr Marjan Šarc at the time he was still in office as Prime Minister of the Government. Listen to her. Listen to her. He said: “I especially like various former ministers who are now acting smart. Now you won't hear me say a word or a word about Kamnik. And when I leave this government," I stress, “and when I leave this government, I will never comment on my successors. I will never comment on my successors. When you're an ex, you're an ex. You had your chance then, and now be quiet." Let's at least listen to your president. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The representative of the proposaler Nataš Sukić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u60	Dear colleague, even the Police Union of Slovenia thought that they were I don't know, now they don't listen to me. [[…]] Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, I answer you. Your Honor, do you copy? The Slovenian Police Union also considered these instructions illegal at the time, so I don't know, but they weren't people from the SD circle now, if I understand. Right now, I'm looking for someone who said that. I don't know which expert you had in mind when you mentioned a man on the SD side. I know it's one of these, just a moment. Did you think of Miroslav Zaberl? Okay, you were talking about him, all right. You think it's from the SD, I don't know. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Maybe, I won't say anything, but the police union thought the same thing at the time, but the union is a union. It's not someone, but it's a union, and it's important to respect if a union comes forward, and probably think about why they said that and think about things a little bit, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u62	Respected! Yes, I agree with you. If it's a union, which is a union, and where at the top are people who are just set up there to fight a union fight. But somewhere deep down you will find it difficult to convince me if it is near the summit – I think one of the vice-presidents of this union – is also an active member of the SD party. It will be difficult to convince me of this well-intentionedness, just as it will be difficult to convince me of well-intention at all times. I don't speak, I don't generalise, but every time, there's a bitter feeling in me when I listen to Mr. Strukl, who's been putting you in lists for the elections. I find it difficult to accept these people as objective and that they are not at least a little politically motivated. It's hard.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The text shall be delivered by the representative of the proposer, Nataš Sukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u64	You see, respectable colleague, that's the way it is, because then we have this ping-pong. We, too, have doubts when it comes to client-qualified people. For example, when I mentioned Petra Grah Lazar, she is not a member; but she is a strong sympathizer and associated with some of your people. In short, as you have reservations, you must understand that there are doubts, reservations. It is right to talk about these things, to make things as clear as possible as possible, that they are transparent, even when they are such sensitive human resources appointments in many institutions, because the NPU is not the only one. We're stuck around the NPU today. We've been changing staff in Furs, which is, say, very controversial, at the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. Why? These are all things that give rise to doubts and doubts, so it is clear that we need to discuss this somehow, and nothing is taken for granted now. We have a debate here to discuss these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u65	The replica has Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u66	I'll be very brief. Absolutely. I'm always in the mood for a debate. But I can tell you, as a longtime member, I have not known Mrs Graham since 1994. She's never been to any event, including those parts of a client where you don't have to be a party member. Before that, however, I spoke of certain individuals who were specifically defined as parties; and I doubt that. But the fact that someone is pushing someone close, forgive them for being a sympathizer; every citizen is a sympathizer of someone. Then we can end it all. But we're talking about some who are really party motivated.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word has Lydia Divac Mirnik. Get ready for Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Nice greeting, distinguished representative of the government, because the minister is gone; colleagues, colleagues! Instead of the introduction, I would say that, as we have been divided today in Slovenia, we have never been before; and this is the result of the work of this government. Now for the introduction. In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we make it clear once again that human resources change is not in itself disputed. They are not when it comes to regular or other legitimate exchanges and, of course, to qualified, capable, mature people. It was said that the government of Marjana Sharca traded 240 people in a year and a half. By the way, Janez Janša's government changed 424 people plus 323 on the boards over the past seven months, but that's okay, that's okay. I'm not going to argue with anyone who's going anywhere because they're out of touch. However, in my debate, because I am limited in time, I would like to limit myself to RTV Slovenia and STA. What did the government do on RTV Slovenia? The government carried out a preliminary discharge of three of the four supervisors, but this replacement was stopped by the Administrative Court, even twice; and therefore, in the supervisory council, there are still those who wanted to be dissolved in the government of Janez Janša. The mandate of the members of the RTV Supervisory Board shall be four years. In its Article 26, the law provides, between the reasons for the early termination of the mandate, for failure to fulfil the conditions or for a member to resign on his own. The RTV Supervisory Board may not be appointed by someone who has been at any time in five years prior to the appointment of an official, or a member of the political party's bodies, or the Director-General, or the Director of the bodies in the composition, or the Mayor or anyone else. In other words, Madam Vice-President, can you please warn these ladies that they are going out there and that they are going to debate until disability. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u69	Excuse me, dear colleagues. Please don't disturb the speaker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your intervention, Mr President. In other words, there was no legal reason for the early resolution of these three overseers. It's just no one. But since it doesn't bother these governments, of course, they've replaced them. Then the Administrative Court told them it wasn't okay, and it didn't bother them either. So much for what my colleague used to explain. Why? Because the SDS sets up obedient, faithful, loyal, nodding, and similar adjectives that they could say, with the aim of unconditional compliance. Your own head's in the way, you might say. And that's it. There's no big philosophy in the back. I really don't. That's not all on the RTV control board, because we're still coming to the programming world. The government did not try to settle only three supervisors in its jurisdiction prematurely – which are not in its jurisdiction, there is no debate, it is only nice to do so legally – but it wanted to replace two other overseers from five appointed by the National Assembly. Of course, this did not work either, because in the opposition, of course, we said that this was already good if it was done legally; and that was also told them by the Legislative-Legal Service of the National Assembly. And the fact that the solution was illegal and unconstitutional stopped them. But it's true that I also think they had a little bit of a problem with that in the coalition. I remember those MVK sessions where they mainly explained from the SDS that it belonged to them. You imagine this perversion. It belongs to them because they now rule and belong to them, regardless of what the law says, regardless of whether or not someone satisfies the terms and conditions; they do not care. If I go to the Slovenian Press Agency, it's even more interesting. The government has decided to propose Mr Radovan Cerjak as the missing fifth supervisor. We have already talked about it, and this has also been voted on, on 29 September in this National Assembly, 47 for, 35 against, of course, this gentleman was appointed. In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we voted against it. And why did we vote against it? Firstly, the gentleman did not meet the tendering conditions, the working and management experience he should have had. Secondly, it is obvious that there is a lack of expertise in relation to the situation he was appointed to. Third time, a conflict of interest. He regularly cooperates with SDS-trobil, Novo24TV and Democracy with other media related to SDS. And you will not believe it, Mr Cerjak is the legal representative or lawyer in the legal proceedings of these acts. But that doesn't mean anything to the government and to the members of the coalition. Fourthly, it does not meet the expected ethical criteria; we will not even talk about the level of communication, dialogue, respect for human dignity. Fifthly, he publicly expresses his impatience for minorities, sexually oriented, social workers, distinguished professors. And six times, he has an underestimating attitude towards human rights. But this does not disturb the governments and coalitions and those 47 Members who voted in favour. And that's the expertise they're talking about. In fact, what is the goal of this government or, above all, the largest party, but everyone else is holding a stand in it? The goal is very simple — to take control of systems and subsystems, and then, of course, over society. How do you do that the easiest way? So you control the media, because it's not a big philosophy in the back, like I said. Therefore, there is a need to suppress criticism, categorize reporting, open the way for only one saving truth and take control of information and, of course, their interpretation. And that's it. As they did in Hungary, we have told LMŠ several times. At first, people were switched or real sneezes were set up, then they started filtering the information, then they gave it to the other media for free, and the result was unanimous. And that's obviously the goal here today. And that's wrong. This government is doing exactly what it shouldn't have done. Instead of withdrawing the policy from public services, I speak public, not government or government, it is politically subordinated. Who's the biggest instigator of this? Our Prime Minister. Why? Look at his twitter, he's been tweeting all day, I don't know what else he's doing but tweet. His comments on the titles of articles, press work, picrets of comments, ridicule of journalists; and this at the time of the worst health problem in Slovenia in history. He's doing it. Sometimes I feel like he's trying to tell us that we need clues from all those who say or even think differently than him. My dears, this has once been called a dictatorship in our history. And I sincerely wish that this was no longer happening in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word is Matthew the Widow. Get Violeta Tomic ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues, one good day! Today, the meeting has been held for several hours, and I am only a third member of the agenda that I can discuss today. When I was preparing for today's debate, I had very mixed feelings, in fact, I was hoping that I would be able to discuss in a reasoned and constructive manner a matter that is well-known to me. For a number of years, I've been employed by the State Administration, at the Ministry, and believe me, I could talk about this problem all day and not tell it all the way. However, in preparing for the meeting, I came to the conclusion that today is not even the right time or the right circumstances to deal with this topic. It is already clear in advance that the proposed debate is aimed only at political populism, regardless of our debates, our blue thoughts will go further than ever before; and therefore everything, purely all policy, is deserved. However, in objective terms, the Mira Cerar government, which has sought to properly and professionally recruit competent personnel, can only partially derogate. This also shows all the analyses, if you look at them back, over the whole 30s. Recently, a long-standing member of the opposition called on all Members and politicians in his debate to scrape off species, forget the daily divisiveness and focus exclusively on solving the problems posed by the covida-19 epidemic. I really liked his debate in the first part, in the first half, because I was sure, but really sure that he meant it and was serious. However, in conclusion, he did not let himself down, turned the record again, and switched to a leaked vocabulary of accusations and attacks by the current government. So even in our honesty here, I no longer have that confidence in this House. I'm still a young lady and one can think — she's a little naive. You may still remember the commercial, although it is very old, for the tape recorder, the Aero Celje factory, which the monkey wanted to get out of his hand and put it on the other with one hand and kept sticking to the other hand. This is also the case with this recruitment in state institutions and companies. As I have already mentioned, all current governments have sought to replace management staff in certain state institutions and important companies. There is no secret that this is about rewarding individuals and strengthening positions in certain environments. On the other hand, it is true that the Minister himself, with a very narrow team, cannot change the policy and functioning of a certain department in a short time. Most officials, by their nature, seek to ensure that things do not change and that they do not have to invest additional energy to change their jobs. I have often felt that an official would do anything, even change legislation if necessary, just so that he would not have to change the way he works. Therefore, I do not understand why certain personnel should be completely untouchable. On what standards? In short, the debate on this subject is certainly welcome and necessary, but at the right time, especially in the face of the right climate. It is irresponsible to expose our health, energy and time to this issue at this time. All together, we use to prepare appropriate measures to address the effects of covid-19 disease. This is what mature, responsible, and wise politicians do. At the same time, I am also asking myself a control question about our democracy, which is to be threatened by this. What is the greatest value of our society in the hierarchy of values? Isn't that the life and health of people? We have to take care of these goods first. What's not clear to anyone here?Oh, my God! About the frame-up itself, that's all. In the real sector, they are very well aware that the essential elements for the successful management and operation of businesses are the competent personnel. Therefore, staff services build their professional careers on positive selection and development of staff. Above all, they are important leaders who need to be able to link all the given resources and make optimal use of them to achieve the objectives of businesses. The same principle should apply to recruitment in public administration or in state institutions. The most responsible jobs and positions should be occupied by competent staff, management experts. In practice, too many times, we are working from top experts to make bad leaders and thus cause poor efficiency and the functioning of institutions themselves. The fact that someone has been an excellent investigator for many years is no guarantee that he will be a successful leader. The other way around. The methods of work and work differ considerably or even exclude each other. Of course, it's our reward system, but it's another time. In these discussions today, especially by the initiator of this debate, it is also good to look at the human resources change counter at the time of the Sharčev government. You won't believe it. He stopped at 252 exchanges. That's very interesting information. I hope that they were all well thought out and professionally justified. And when someone tells us today that some of us are holding it, if I put it under the line, some of the government's stalls, I wonder if maybe they're asking themselves that we once held a stand for another government. However, if we still play with the facts in this area, we can find that we have the legal basis for replacing these personnel. The basic legal act in this area is the Law on Public Servants. However, the subject matter is regulated in sectoral legislation, regulations and other internal acts, so that the legal bases are long-standing and are not yet guaranteed by this government. Recently, there has been a greater problem with the correct application of these legal bases. Even in the most insolvent cases; the changes of Director-General Surs and Director-General of the NPU have been made by these two errors or errors, which have been used in the media. Yes, but here we do have to ask for competent officials, competent officials in human resources services, their leaders and advisors. Or it's just some cheap political maneuvers that can cause endless bickering and readings and so on. In any event, Slovenia actually needs a competent system of public servants that will give users confidence and that will be able to provide quality services to all citizens and citizens. It must also be safe, flexible, responsive and transparent. It is time to overcome the state of reply to some human resources counters and cases of political personnel, but we start to establish a responsible system of public servants with the main measure of performance rather than political affiliation. This, however, cannot be guaranteed by any left or right of our political reality. This is our organizational culture, our reality today. This situation is capable of surpassing only the central liberal democratic option, which is still least burdened by this recruitment. I hope that we will continue to take this issue seriously in this mandate and find appropriate solutions together. And when I'm listening to an emissary today who says that she can't talk to Janez Janša and that he's just ordering; she obviously never cooperated with him, she never really proposed to him, she told him something in person, because I personally had this opportunity and opportunity. All my proposals, which I highlighted at the top of the coalition, took seriously, responsibly and all my proposals are written in law. And I am one of those Members here – the Left laughs, the Social Democrats nod, saddens me because they were not there – although he opposed it, he defied, but with good reasoning they ended up in law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic. Get Iva Dimic ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Chairman. I don't know how Mrs. Matey Udovč sees anyone laughing from the Left if we have all the clues on our mouth. In short, clairvoyant. Now, all coalition Members speak as if these exchanges are the most normal thing in the world. They're not; you're violating the tendering terms. Before the end of your term of office, you replace people, violate meritocratic standards, and appoint your people to places where they were formerly professional. So, according to the system, only it's ours, and it doesn't matter if it knows anything. Here we had a human tsunami, from the NIJZ, Darsa, SDH, DUTB, DSU, Kad, in short, heading in the direction where the party took the place where the country was before. And whoever doesn't see it is either completely deceived or blind. They see the populism — us, the opposition, because we work. But do you want us to keep our mouths shut that we're at home, that we're deeply quarantined while you're doing what you want?Oh, my God! How you imagine democracy. And if I touch culture, we've had since the change in RTV controllers and then you say, "No, we don't interfere with politicians, that's what supervisors do. Yeah, you set them up first, and that's your way of doing it. And a quarter of the media law, the expert commission, throwing non-governments out of Metelkova, not paying the agreed funds for the film, the staffing, and so on, not to mention. This is a disaster that will be very damaging to us in the long run. And it is true that, even if you have torn people apart, you have quarreled among yourselves, especially Mr Twito, the President of the Government, who should be a statesman, only a cruel one, which is really beneath every level. And you think 20% of the citizens, your constituents, give you credibility for all these measures, or what? And this government is a stolen government made up of parties that won voter votes because they said they wouldn't cooperate with Janez Janša. And what does the KUL coalition you're making fun of more than once? The KUL Coalition is a coalition of constitutional arches following the example of Italy after World War II, when all parties there, to the Christian Democrats, committed themselves not to cooperate with the fascists. And that's how the Italians had their denaccination. But this is where we happen to want to, I don't know, 30 years ago. The messenger says that up to 30 or 100 years ago there is still a long way to go. Yeah, great. It's all the citizens' fault, it's the media's fault and it's the opposition's fault. You haven't done anything in seven months to make it clear. You've been acting on your own, with your own staff, far from doing anything to combat the epidemic. Within seven months, there was no talk of preparation for the second wave, no one additional doctor, no nurse, no single bed in the homes of older citizens, no nurse. And then you say you're dealing with an epidemic while you're doing your personnel tsunamis. Yes, the police, the military, the NPU, in particular those individuals and individuals who investigated illegality, irregularities that burden individuals from, how appropriate, SDS parties. At first, you were talking about how you won a record success in overcoming the epidemic, and then the protestors appeared — and horribly, they were to blame. You're taking advantage of the epidemic of brutal power until now. Why is this the first time this has happened to us? Because whenever anyone was in power, I am now the second term here, we spoke democratically and democratically. The opposition had a word, we don't have that word today, you're making it impossible for us to debate, you're making it impossible for us to work. People are making progress with you, and now at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, a gentleman who tweets that Slovenian centres for social work have been laid by feminists, frustrated women and married beta boys. You encourage hate speech, hatred. And how would the opposition respond to what you are doing?Oh, my God! Of course, you say that the growing infections are caused by opposition, citizens and the media; but your ministers are walking around infected. Please! We will probably blame citizens, the media and the opposition for misrepresentation and non-professional recruitment. We blame overpaid medical equipment on someone other than citizens, the media and the opposition, for how you hope to talk about things that are not good for the government. And then we have every attempt at throwing the CEO, because we know what happened after the Tarch show. RTV has become the government's main target. And you know, no one's asking, says my predecessor, uh, and SMC was really up to speed. SMC appointed the President of the RTV Supervisory Board, Mr Andre Graham Whatmough, who was a supervisor in Meta Ingenium, who also worked in the field of television production until 2018; this was sent to us by a group of concerned citizens and citizens. For many years, the Lord has been a member of the RTV Supervisory Board, elected as a candidate for SMC, which has a number of important powers under Article 13 of the RTV Act and the Statute of RTV Slovenia. He can even postpone the proposal for the discharge of the Director-General, which we have witnessed today. He also had an insight into all the classified and classified information of RTV Slovenia, saw all the advertising prices and confirmed them, decided on the prices. But he silenced his membership to the supervisory authority because so, in accordance with the law on RTV, he could not even be appointed to the supervisory board of RTV, so please, let alone guide him. In short, Articles 17 and 26 of the RTV Act state that no person may be elected to the Supervisory Board who is a member of the management, management or control bodies or is employed in competitive media and persons holding ownership shares in these media. Nor shall persons employed in RTV Slovenia, except three representatives of employees in RTV Slovenia. During his communication with lawyer Lado Hribar, he reported the Director-General of RTV to the KPK and sent applications to the Director-General. And then he said at a session of the programming board, this gentleman of yours, that if someone proposed him as CEO, I would accept that. Oh, great. He was also in constant contact with Mr Restoration and we all remember how the broadcast of RTV revealed suspicions of irregularities in the supply of this protective equipment. And how many times, say, Members of Parliament then, are you quoting conclusions written by Mr Grah for the Supervisory Board. In short, when Grah was newly released by the Director-General, he was again appointed as Acting Director-General, they also wrote in the Evening. Then we can also touch Mrs Jelka Stergel, who is a long-standing member of the Programme Council, and the business of her husband's company, which has already earned EUR 1.5 million with RTV. With your supervisors who are so trying to replace RTV leadership, we have a whole list of very interesting biographies. But we'll talk about it another time. And we'll say, "Talk Pass," "The Controversial Purchase," when the Gale whistler lost his job at the Department of Commodity Reserves. And you're resuscitate, resuscitate, keep up. As many times as we mentioned, Nate's planes flew by the end of May of the DSO and the poor elderly, who were already so afraid of everything, had to listen to this thundering, and we applauded them. Okay. And we asked you why you didn't call these NATO planes for help, just as other European countries did. Within the framework of the SALIS programme, NATO aircraft transported protective equipment every day to different countries in Europe. 25 March in Bratislava – 48 tonnes of protective equipment. On 26 March, Bucharest, by order of the Romanian government – transferred equipment from Korea. On 1 April, in the framework of NATO’s SALIS programme, the Czech Republic landed for the third time with 106 tonnes of medical devices from China. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. May, Antonov 124 – 54 tons of protective equipment at the request of the Polish Defence Ministry. And the largest plane, Anton's 225, is said to be the largest aircraft in the world, to Germany on 27 April – 200 tons of equipment from China. We will give €780 million for the purchase of equipment, and we are back in business. What did we get during the crisis from our NATO allies? Apparently, they would have brought us if someone had asked. But the government's business and suspicious business were obviously more important. In short, we will blame again, opposition, because it reminds you of the international blemish of our country, of the entourage, of Roca Snezic, Dijano Djudžić, of the previously mentioned Petro Grah Lazar, of Radovan Cerjak, please. And you're talking about some kind of competence. Let me hear this again – let us strain the species, but there is a great deal of duality, because in the opposition we always want to squander the species with you, but you do not need us, we disturb you. And ye set up the frames that go to rematchism: and so we are here where we are. You know, there is also an online petition calling for the National Assembly and saying - It is extremely irresponsible and socially harmful that the government is currently using the current state to enforce its narrow political agenda, client training, privatisation, degradation of the social state, corruption, medical equipment, misuse of public money, police submission, destruction of culture, public RTV, attacks on the media, civil society and anything else that thinks. But do not think that all these men are members of the Left, or members of the Left: for he who is not with us is against us, and is a far leftist. In short, we're obviously gonna blame you for everything you've done. But you've gone deep. We are facing a severe economic crisis, now we have a health crisis, and you are not doing anything other than employing incompetent party staff and putting away people who are in control of their business. Let me tell you that I do not accept any responsibility for your non-professional and incorrect staffing, overpaid medical equipment, for non-medical treatment, for lack of beds, for the sale of freight traffic of Slovenian railways, nor do I accept responsibility. I do not accept responsibility for the defeat of protestors who express their disagreement with your illogical actions. And for disproportionate penalties for citizens and citizens who get to eat croissants €700,800, I do not accept responsibility nor do I accept responsibility for embarrassing Slovenia in the European Union. So much for now, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has now entered the floor. Mr. Lampret, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much. I'd just like to give you two brief explanations. Two programs were mentioned. None of these programmes are an allied programme, but both programmes are within with other allies. The first programme is SALIS, which uses, indeed, the Ukrainian aircraft Antonov, the second programme is SAC C-17, where there is also a limited number of allies, not all, those allies that we have merged into this programme, we also have C-17 aircraft. The direct question was why we did not use these two mechanisms. First, we need to know that these two mechanisms allow for a strategic lift, strategic transport. This strategic transport is not free, but the hours of this strategic transport must be paid. The hours of strategic transport are very expensive. As far as plane C-17 is concerned, this aircraft is capable of transporting 77 tons. The Ukrainian planes of Antonov are even more. The hour of rush of this is much more expensive than the limited number of necessary goods ordered by Slovenia not only at one end, in China; but at more than one end. To limit my response to the Ministry of Defence, based on the calculations and rationality that have been made, the use of the limited hours available to us has been simply too costly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Minister has also made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will be very brief, Mrs Tomić alone, I would like to say that of all the assistance we received in the first wave, that is, from the nuclear, non-nuclear, any European countries, given that all countries have faced a marked lack of any protective equipment, I must say that we have only received two aids. I personally coordinated both of them, so one with the Czech Home Secretary. The Czech Republic was the first to send us anything, i.e. protective masks and other equipment; and the second with the Hungarian interior minister, where Hungary also jumped to help, even more. The Hungarians even provided us with free transportation from their supply reserves to the Brno airport.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Reploco has Mrs. Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u80	Given that Mr. Minister Hojs has spoken in his resignation, I would only ask him one question. We had a Culture Minister who gave up when the doorman hanged himself, and now we have a cop's death due to overload. Will you take responsibility for this too? Because I believe you're putting pressure on the police. The police union has repeatedly announced that they are not happy that citizens and citizens must be persecuted in the way you ask them to. There's been a suicide. What are you gonna do about it? Will you be honorable, after all, because you have been giving up for so long, but will you end it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I ask all debaters to stick to the topic on the agenda today. It is true, however, that today's debate is very broad on both sides, both coalition and opposition sides. If we all narrow it down a little, the debate will be much more effective. Here we go, Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The debate is one that the President permits, and I hope that we too can have a debate that may go a little wider than today's meeting. So I want to start my debate this way. I would like to begin with a statement by the former Prime Minister of the Government of Mr Sharpe: "If I want to make a difference as a new man, then it is necessary to make a change in staff." The other thing I wanted to point out was that we're talking here today, what everything and how it was in these seven months, a bunch of lies. However, I must definitely say that we have all forgotten, and probably also the viewers and viewers, that the Secretary-General of LMŠ called the Head of the Official Journal on the phone and he has given a message regarding the appointment of the Director of this company that the State expects it to become Igor Scholtes. Of course, Brane King left his post at that time, but on the phone, it was incapacitated. How can evidence be given in all the more than 254 exchanges that I will take during my debate. Here we go. I've released certain things. Under the 11th point, the government of Mariana Sharca 4. Ten. 2018 discharge the Director-General of the Police, Simon Velickega, by 5. Ten. 2018 has appointed Mag as Acting Director-General of the Police. Tatiana Bobnar. I am going to point 13 – on 11 October 2018, from the post of Director-General of the Security Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence, dismissed by Franca Trbovška, and appointed Dejan Matijevic as the new Director-General for a period of five years. I'm not going to read it all, but it's available on the web portals. Point 22 – The government of Marjana Sharca is 27. 11. 2018 from the post of Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces dismissed Alen Geder, to his post of 29. 11. 2018 appointed Alenko Ermenc. Point 23 – The government of Marjana Sharca is 29. 11. 2018 appointed Tina Kampla as V.D. Director of the Youth Office of 1. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The government is 29. 11. 2018 Resolved by Roko Primožič from the position of Director of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth. On 6 December 2018, the government appointed Damjana Orazma as Director of the Slovenian Institute of Forests. I can tell you, I still have these things marked if anyone wants to hear it. If anyone wants to listen. But I can make a different point: that the government's perceptions that it only deals with human resources do not hold. Apparently, the government hasn't done anything to contain the epidemic, they don't. In the spring and summer months, the government prepared intensively for a possible second wave, for which no one wanted it to come. It prepared the entire collection and we received this – Education and education in the Republic of Slovenia in covid-19-related conditions, Models and recommendations. On page 86 exactly says – Treatment of a student, a student, employed with a sum on covid-19. I can read again – Recommendations for the planning and implementation of educational activities. So, things were ready. The National Institute for Public Health was also prepared by models linked to the number of hospitalised patients, both in the hospital and in intensive care, as well as to the number of patients on the respiratory system. Things were ready. This government is working. This government is working, and I can say that the government is solving the current situation in Slovenian health care. Yeah, that's right, you heard right. It saves 13 years – 13 years – an old project on the second floor of the UKC, where it has never been found to settle these matters. The covid-19 premises are currently being regulated. How can someone claim nothing has happened?Oh, my God! The government is saving; and also the Slovenian Army, which I heard about last week in this National Assembly in order to end the Slovenian Army. Of course, you were in favour of abolishing the Slovenian Army. Who is solving the situation in Slovenian health care today? Members of the Slovenian Armed Forces move through Slovenia, through the hospitals of the bed, as well as other equipment, as regards X-ray devices and this. The Slovenian army is the first one to be available to contain this epidemic. To move on, to school. Centres for school and school activities are available for the establishment of red zones. So the school went the other way. I have listened many times in this national assembly, and perhaps even rightly not to be taken care of by those who are at home and are in severe social distress that they do not have a warm meal. The Ministry of Education has allowed all students and students who do not have a warm meal and are from socially weak families to come to this warm meal. Indeed, it has imposed on local communities the delivery of this meal to these families. That's enabled. That's enabled. All children, and I say now, who are from these weak, socially endangered families, have the opportunity to have a warm meal a day. Of course, they must convey this desire, and the local community is in charge of delivering this warm meal to them. I can say that, at this stage, we have taken a major step forward, as far as ensuring some social justice is concerned. I can go on with the trades. The government is seven. 2. 2019 in the Council of the Public Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Cultural Heritage for the term of office of five years since the establishment of the Council of the Institute appointed Barbara Mlakar, Luka Ivanič, Roka Žnidaršič and Mag. Bojana Kureza. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has dismissed the current member of the Management Board of the University of Ljubljana, representative of the founder, mag. Urban Krajcar and appointed a deputy member of mags. Tanya Vertel. She also dismissed the representative of the Magi employers. Vojmir Urlep and appointed alternate member of Radovan Bolk. They were both appointed until the end of the term of office of the Management Board, i.e. until 23 April 2021. On 28 February 2019, the Government confirmed the revised compositions of the Civil Protection Headquarters. I can list them all as many as there are to know: Koroska region – 16, coastal region – 4, internal region – 19, Pomurje – 2, says, many. On 7 March 2019, the Government appointed Cvetko Jurak as the representative of the patient's rights for the area of the National Institute of Public Health: Celje. That's a lot. There's a lot to read. I don't know where else to come from, but here I'm going to ask my colleague Lydia Divac Mirnik to say that this government solved 424 people within seven months, if I'm writing it down right now. I'd like to ask for accurate information. I expect to have it by the end of the session today. I want to see this information like I do with names and surnames, because otherwise it's just drowning, cheating and lying. On 28 May 2019, the Government decided to extend the mandate of the directors of social work centres. As of 1 October 2018, a new organisational structure of social work centres (CSD) was launched. 16 new CSDs have been set up to form a merger of 62 social work centres so far. It is said that all the directors have been appointed. On 10 May 2019, the Government dismissed the Director General of the Directorate for Health Care at the Ministry of Health, Tanja Mate, from his post. The government is six. 6. 2019 mag. Harry Furlan was appointed Attorney General at the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia. There's something else I can say if you want to hear anything else, or if you want to read it yourself, you can pour yourself some pure wine. Here it says and I will read: “The government of Marjana Sharca has brutally recruited all its sessions, which took only a few minutes many times. Human resources exchanges were at least 200.” And while in the House of Sharchev's House, I think it is right to ask her again for information on how many of these exchanges have been made today until the end of this meeting. And that I can hand over these personnel exchanges, too, with pleasure. I think it is right to say once again that this government is trying to contain the epidemic and that it is the responsibility of all of us how it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u83	Thank you very much. First of all, Mrs Sukič has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, I ask you to remind Mrs Ivo Dimic somehow, because I understand that you are passionate and passionate and that you belong to your client and to your ideas, but still lie so much about wanting to end the Slovenian Army, but in a debate that doesn't even touch it, it's a little too much. In general, noting the absurdity of the 780 million additional money contribution to the military, which is primarily intended for the acquisition of weapons for foreign missions, Nate's missions, does not mean that you want to abolish the Slovenian Army. I beg your pardon, please remind the Member of the matter, and I would like an apology.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u85	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u86	There's also one other thing. It is also misleading to inflate a case of telephone cadres, but forget to say that this person has been resolved as he must have been. And I ask you to warn the MP not to abuse it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u87	Mrs Sukič, this was a substantive debate. Your procedural proposal after an apology is not defined in the Rules of Procedure, so that it cannot be considered as a procedural proposal. But I would like to draw attention to the contents of the agenda. Mrs Dimic, you spoke mostly about the previous government, and the content of the point is the staffing of this government. I believe we've had a very broad debate before, and I'm going to, and I didn't interrupt you in the middle. However, from the Slovenian Army, meals of school children until 2018, 2019 – you have commented on everything in your debate. This is not the item on the agenda that we are considering today. However, if you still want a procedural proposal, let it be a procedural proposal. Mrs. Dimic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u88	Dear Chairman! As a matter of procedure, I think I can say that I did not keep my mouth shut that Brana King's secretary at the time was relieved. I said it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u89	Mrs Dimic, this is not a procedural proposal, this is a substantive debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u90	I said it. However, I debated because colleague Lidija Divac Mirnik talked about a number of changes and did not say a word in particular.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u91	Mrs Dimic, I am warning you to stop this course of action because you are abusing a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u92	I don't abuse anything. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u93	I also interrupted Mrs. Sukič and warned her [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u94	But you didn't protect me as president when they said that I wasn't discussing it properly. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u95	Mrs. Dimic, I will not protect you in your substantive discussions, this is not my job. It is my job to ensure that the meeting is conducted in accordance with the procedure. And now you have violated this procedure by abuse of the procedural proposal. You didn't even give it to me so I could throw it away like an improperly formulated one. I warn you that you do not do this in the future and none of the Members. Please, let's all stick to this strictly. The debates are available to everyone and also the replicas, we stick to it. The applicant has now made a statement. Mr. Nick Prebil, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Yeah, I'd like to respond quickly. I thought I'd wait a little longer, but I have to. As far as the Secretary-General of the LMŠ Party is concerned. It is clear that when you run out of arguments that you could hang yourself on, you turn to things that are long past. The Secretary-General of the Party, Lista Marjan Sarca, has resigned or has been asked to do so by the President of our party. Why? Because he said that his work was inappropriate; and unlike some in this National Assembly, we have certain hygiene standards and certain political hygiene in our party, which some in this National Assembly obviously cannot overcome. Then there was the speech again, a colleague talked about these so-called 252 changes by the government of Marjan Šarc. I'm glad you're reading the material Nova24TV has prepared for you, and that's encouraging. And I'll tell you, colleague, you don't have to answer to your colleague Divac Mirnik because I looked at it myself. If you go to the website of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and look back at all the meetings that this government has had, and there are very many correspondences, you will find some personnel exchange at each session. And all of these were on the day that we did this, 424; without all the appointments to the commission and other different committees, those were additional 323 in half the time that the government of Marjan Šarc ruled. Please don't get carried away because it's already slow to throw up in here. I would also like to hear when you heard me say that the government only deals with personnel. I never said that. I said, but when she has time to deal with her staffing, she doesn't have time to deal with what's most important right now. And I can fully understand that certain places need to be given to people who trust them, who work and so on. But when four people go to the head of the NPU in six months, I don't know if you trust your people or don't trust who?Oh, my God! Or they don't do what you tell them to do, but they do it professionally. Then does the expertise have nothing to do with it? These things are of interest to me, and this is not the only place where this kind of exchange took place. It is certainly a reminder of this more than necessary, and this will be done by the opposition. But I would only touch that adulterous responsibility. I think it was Mr Jelinčič who said in his position that someone else is in position today, someone else is in charge, someone else is taking responsibility. While I see someone else in charge, responsibility alone is lost in some way because this government no longer accepts these responsibilities. The President of the Government says that the ministers apologized because they apologized; however, the matter is closed. Not to mention what foreign media write about our precious love for Slovenia because of this President of the Government. I'd be ashamed. [[advertising from the hall]] Dear colleagues, may I? Thank you. Again, this responsibility, which the government could essentially assume, always rests on the media and on the opposition. Would you please set the mirror once or at least look at home and answer your questions? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u97	Mr Ivanuša, I really beg you, if you stop making peace in this Chamber so that other Members can discuss. Thank you. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'll finish it, Comrade Ivanus. It's just that it's not hygienic to take responsibility. And just one more thing when it was mentioned what was going on. This wasted time has been this time. And when you always like to compare yourself with the adulterous neighbour of Austria or Germany, look at what they did in those countries in the meantime. As in Germany, during the summer they increased the capacity in hospitals, how they trained those specialists and doctors who are not from primary areas so that today, when they have more infected, they can work with covido-19 patients; and how they have educated additional staff. Why is there so much in this country today after ten years not finished, why there are still bad salaries in our country, why people do not decide for certain professions, and this is why I ask that you, who sat here ten years ago, see what the ZUJF has done, and you will see why there are many things today; so the law of Janez Janša. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr. Marko Bandelli has the floor. But get ready, mag. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u100	Thank you, Madam President. I'd like to ask, Madam President, if you'll allow me just two sentences on something that colleague Dimic mentioned. You said you were saving beds on the second floor of the UKC. It's commendable. I'm not saying anything. That's very commendable. But what did you do for six months? During the summer, six months, with all the predictions that were that the second wave would come? You didn't do anything. This meeting with the UKC on the second floor was last week. And then you happen to look a little bit at what's going on, and you see that one company that's never worked with a UKC that's never worked in this wing has never been there, gets a 2.5-million-dollar deal. I'm not going to say that this is some kind of treasure, my friend, but it's creating some suspicion here with us who are Members and we're from work to understand a little bit about how this thing works. For six months, he had to complete other works, for example, because he could not. Because it's a small company, it's a medium-sized company, nothing special. He started working inside one piece, and all of a sudden he got millions of jobs. That's to think, that's to think. I have a minister here, because he doesn't care about it, and even though it's their associates or acquaintances, he's not going to initiate any procedure to check it out, I don't know if anything's wrong. It may not be. I'm just asking. As a Member, I have the right to ask this here. People need to know, I represent the people here and people ask questions and we have to give them an answer, Mrs Dimic. Don't brag about what was done. Nothing was done in six months. That's sad. And that's why we have 900 beds full today, and we have nowhere else to put them. Do you understand me? Six months. And I'm going to end up with this argument because it's unrelated. President, thank you for letting me. I'll take this argument in conjunction with today's point. I'll tell you personally what I think. It's not a problem with the frame-up. I'll say it honestly. Every government that comes up here changes its own people. Every government that comes, they just make some nuts. When the new minister arrives, he has the right under law to replace all directors of the Directorates within one year. That's not a problem. That's what you can do. You know, that's not the problem; there's another problem. The problem is in a way, the first person we put in that place, it doesn't matter that it's professional, but it's important that it's a yellow-blue card. Do you understand me? And then there's the problem. We're putting people up, putting people up, I'm putting them up because we're a parliament, something's going on here. But you know, here's the problem. And I think you need to think a little bit about what this is. 424 HR shifts. Hello, you were working when the Sharchev government replaced 200 in one and a half years. Of course, you couldn't make new beds if you were dealing with 424 people's staff exchanges. I'm a little talented, you know, you know what I mean. But there are also numbers that are real, there is little to say here. I'm sorry, 424 personnel exchanges. Do you think, I ask that it is important that you place your profession in certain places? I think so. Not everywhere. In certain places, such people can also be placed, which are just pebbles, it is called. Yes-mani, we'd say. You understand, the kind of people you deserve to be there. That's exactly why, Mr. Secretary, I think you've replaced so many people in certain positions. They probably weren't stoners. You probably couldn't control them. I wonder, I don't say, I ask. Because if a man changes your ministry within six months, I won't talk from retreat to everything you've done in the middle of it, but it's history, but let's just let it stand, but if you've replaced these people there and end up putting someone down. With all due respect to this woman, who I do not know personally, but what I have read — totally inappropriate for that city. Yeah, look, that's what they say. And we listen here and we have to tell people. And I'm asking you if that's true. Is it true or not? Because they said they were competent people in that place, and they were suspended. Why? And we want to know why here too. And I think it's a right for the people and people to know why you replaced them. That's all. There are certain functions that must be professional, Minister. And here we both agree, we both agree, you're a construction engineer after education. I'm also an engineer in one phase, not a nostrilized one, and then an economist. And you know exactly how we understand the situation. You can do more from the mathematical world, and I can do a little bit more from the philosophical, because my head is working, thinking. And then I wonder if the profession is also important to you for certain functions. I wonder. I'm not talking about you. I'm talking about all the other ministries. Because here a man has got one main list, I'm not talking about 424 names that wouldn't even stand in here on how many leaves. But I'm going through a few things. As I mentioned, the director of the NPU. Do you know what's most eccentric? The most eloquent thing to think about here, the director of the Money Laundering Bureau; now I don't know why I remember the words “to prevent money laundering”, I remember SDS, I don't know why; but that's how it comes to me. But who is this new man? This is Ivan Kopina, the municipal councilman of SDS. We have on one such important function a man who is purely party-defined. I'm asking you if you think that's right. Wouldn't you at least be from SDS to be his friend or something; if you had to give your people. Then I see something else. Director Furs, these are repressive organs. Do you understand what this is about?Oh, my God! These are organs that can hurt a lot of people just because they wake up in the morning. They'll be able to do that to me, too, because now I'm telling you this, but that's why I've just said that if they come to me, I don't know what they're gonna know why they're coming. He'll come for exactly one reason. But I'm sorry, dear colleagues who are here, Director Fursa Irena Nunčič – the municipal councilwoman SDS writes here. Now I don't know if it's true or not. Director Fursa, the main tax office we have in Slovenia – a blue-yellow card. Do you understand me? I wonder if this is right for you. I mean, how do you think about it? We can think wrong, Minister, we can think wrong. Because one day when we're back in the government - and I hope we will - we'll do the same. And I'll see what you're gonna do here, what you're gonna do and what you're gonna do. Because I know. Do you know what you said before, Minister? You said you had made a public accusation before, and then the president of the National Assembly stopped me and even gave me a reminder, I don't know why, to anyone else, he gave it to me, but I don't care. But look at the lie you told about SAB's staffing, about Alenka Bratušek and then that Marjan Šarec moved the point away from the agenda – Marjan Šarec moved this point away from the agenda for other reasons. But you know what you said? That Alenka Bratušek wanted to change things so that she could recruit, I think in Borzen or I don't know where that problem was at the time. Do you understand me? Do you know what she wanted to do? Exactly to prevent what you're doing. So Borzen doesn't start trading people in without the government's knowledge and without the Minister's knowledge. That was it. Not to nod, I'm telling you, you accused her very vulgarly, if I say so, you've made a terrible accusation, and she wanted to do it in such a way that it wouldn't depend on just one institution, but that there would be three institutions that could gather the right person professionally, not politically. Do you understand that? That's what I wanted to tell you before the President of the National Assembly left me - which is also right, because it probably wasn't in the context, I agree, because I didn't say anything. But do you know with what arrogant emphasis you said that? Like she made a mistake. She wanted to solve the matter, she was solving the system of gathering these people – what you don't do. Do you understand? You don't give any other option than just what you imagined. And that's the problem. I'd like to ask you if that's okay with you. Do you think it's okay? That's all I'm asking you. News, what does your conscience say, is that okay? Not yours, I speak yours in terms of ruling, understand? Does that seem fair to you? I won't use the terms brutally, or if it's legal and necessary and what it is. You need to know for yourself how true this is. You know what else I have on my list, and then I'll finish because I have to let others? I will not say where you put it – as the government I am speaking now – one person in a single directorship. If I tell you that I would report him, one – I won't say the name or anything – who blackmailed me as mayor, and now he's one of the CEOs of one company, you put him there. It's the only thing that's gonna come out, probably all this stuff, but let's just let it stand. One more case. Let me get this straight. I had a lot to say, but I have to leave. President Darsa. What are we doing here? The government appoints the vice-president of the party. Do you understand what the problem is here? This man was in a conflict of interest; he was the one who made false contributions — what would he say? – false references for viaduct in Glinščica. Do you understand me?Oh, my God! He gave false references then! That's why they went to the audit and found that that wall and that foundation weren't the way it was supposed to be. And besides, they made a deal, and they still got the job! Because they made a deal, probably, I think. And where is this man where he went? The vice-president of a party, New Slovenia, went to be chairman of the administration of Dars. I mean, the media didn't talk about it that much. [[…]] I wonder why, because you're pushing so hard on these media, I'm not saying anything else. It's not, it's not, it's all quiet. It's said that there comes some uncensored thing that says something like that, that we read what it is, and then you say, it's a fake. A bigger fairy like Nova24TV – I'm sorry, it's something amazing. But let's stop, we're not talking about them now. But I'm wondering here if you're comfortable with that kind of frame-up. That's why I'm saying that it's not a problem to frame people if it's fair, if it makes sense, if it's knowledge, if it's professional, if it's that kind of thing. But setting certain people up just so I don't think it's right, that's what I was going to say. He's always in charge, he's always in charge, he's a little bit of a philosopher here. And it's also right to recruit in certain places, just put your people where they need to be, but at least they have to be of the profession. Here, in this case, I'm sorry, there's no profession. It's not. And if you switched so many people there, probably the reasons are different. I'll get it over with. I had two more sides to tell, but I can't because I have to let others. Thank you, Vice President. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u101	Thank you very much for your discussion. Mr. Minister has signed up for this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Member, I will try to answer you very quickly, of course, as much as it is in my power. Look, first of all, what you started at the end, about engineering, about staffing, and so on. I can't, and I don't want to defend some appointments in economic society, but I know about Darsa's particular case. He was the head of my cabinet eight years ago at the Ministry of Defense, and I must say that it's a competent man, that it's an honest man, that it's a highly professional man, and that he's a man with managerial skills. You can draw the rest yourself. The wall in Black Kal or on Glinščica – you know what? That's what I've been saying for a year and a half. A year and a half, wherever it could be, at the chamber, at seminars and so on. It's a scandal for engineering. That was an engineering scandal! Why? Because it could take exactly four hours to measure this wall, there would be a machine there, dig things up, measure how high it is, and the matter would be over. But why don't you think they did it? Why not? Because all of a sudden the owner there changed his mind and he said he wouldn't let it happen. But they complained to the Collector and I don't know who else. Interesting, isn't it? It's interesting that you can't measure one ordinary wall in four hours. You've got the wrong guy. To an extremely wrong one. I'm sure that wall was as high as they wrote there, but everyone else did everything they could to keep this wall from being measured! Because they didn't want it because they didn't want it, Mr Bandelli, they didn't want it to be given to someone who was over a million euros cheaper. More than a million euros was cheaper than that! And look, I don't know who got the job at the clinical center either. I don't know. We can take a look at all this. We can check it out. But I do know something — that one of those dedicated to our construction work did not get it. We know who they're dedicated to. You worked in construction, and you know who you were supplying to. When John Zidar called, the cement was not supplied, despite the pre-contracts that Salonit Anhovo had with the chosen contractor, he was no longer supplying cement to the contractor. Is that competition? Then is it strange that that wall, instead of 8 million, was worth 12 million? I don't think so. And in my opinion, this way of working, this Slovenia cannot prosper. Now it's just about the personnel. Look, Mr Bandelli, I hope we don't get to such a stage that when I'm not here anymore, someone will tell me, because I'm a member of the SDS, that I can't do my construction work at all. I hope not. And see if any municipal councillor is SDS or SD when the SD is in power, or yours when you're in power, or if he has any connection, some idea about construction or finance or, I don't know, money laundering, he could probably be called leadership. Is it now that you're a member of a party, in this society, I don't know what's contagious? I hope we don't get to the stage when we look, I don't know, like we did in 1945 – but if you're not in the party, you can't get to any place. I hope not. And now I'm finishing up my appointments. Look, Mr. Bandelli. I've named two people at the Ministry so far. At first I appointed the Director of the Police – not me, on my proposal from the Government – and after the Director of the Police resigned, I proposed and appointed another Director of the Police. Then I appointed a man, the director of the police control department, and look, interestingly, the man was also in your government there the director, in. d. Even more, the former minister was following the stories I had, making fun of him, ha, that's the uncontested minister, and that's the gentleman who would like to be the minister here instead of me and was a year and a half in. d. I didn't see it that way. I looked into whether a man is an expert, we made a call, from those who applied, he was the best and now he's named, Mr Bandelli, and he's not a member of the SDS. I think he's politically even closer to the left, but I don't care because he was a career cop because he's an expert because he can work. All the other psychics are still the ones who were in the previous government. I did not appoint any new ones, except those two, when we changed the systemisation and set up two new Directorates, the Directorate of Logistics and the Directorate of Migration. And here will be the invitations, so please, Mr. Bandelli, don't read it to me, no. And even if you tell me, look, there's no problem, I absolutely agree with you, even when we're in the opposition, we'll probably be talking like you now, but look at the extraordinary meetings at the time of the epidemic, when we have more than 20 dead today or yesterday, and we won't call. In this case, we will, if, when the opposition, surely direct all forces to help the government, to convince citizens together that the time is serious, that we must all stand up for the issue to come true, that the epidemic will go away and that we will all remain healthy to the greatest extent.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Bandelli has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u104	Just one thing. About most of the things you said, I also agree with you that you won't think you won't. But what I wanted to tell you is that it's not a card problem, it can't be a problem, it can't be a problem, it can't be a problem anymore, but it depends on which position. Do you understand me? That's what I was gonna say. Here are some positions that have been replaced by a card, where it's wrong, by repressive services, if we call them repressive services, where it's wrong. That's all I wanted to say, okay? She will be able to inspect one company where they can be closer to the left if I give an example – in what way will she be able to inspect this neutrally? That's what I was gonna say. I don't think so. I don't think it's right for me personally. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The next one for the debate is mag. Elena Zavadlav Ushaj, get Mr. Rudy Medved ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Very well greeted Minister and everyone else, colleagues and colleagues! At the beginning of his speech, the proposer mentioned that the current government was carrying out human resources exchanges due to the power vested in it. Do you hear the convocations of today’s session at all? It seems like you're representing what you're doing and you're talking about what you're doing yourself, and now you're reading this to the current government, the government of Janez Janša, who has the same legal options as the government of Marjan Sarca. Let's see how it went under the Marjana Sharca tactic. In his mandate, he has done what we have heard several times today, 252 human resources exchanges, and this is what we are talking about in the highest official places, not all of them. At the time of its departure, the Sharčev government, despite its ongoing operations, panicked to employ a number of official posts at various ministries, although the administrative apparatus in the public sector has already been recalculated. Thus, at least 80 jobs were registered and the deadlines for applying for these jobs were from three to five days, which clearly does not apply to professional staff, but only to political personnel. The former Constitutional Judge and Judge of the European Court of Human Rights, Dr Boštjan M. Zupančič, pointed out that the placement of his people in the lower sphere of a deep state is not an ongoing business, it is a crime, an abuse of an official position. The prosecution should react in such cases and the Constitutional Court should issue a provisional order. Let us also see what the proposer pointed out at the outset, the recruitment of the NPU, the criminal police, the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and once again, I will highlight exactly the personnel carried out by the Sharčev government. 13. 9. The Sharčev government took up its mandate and 24. 9. Appointed the Director of the Crime Police Administration, 27. 9th Director of Owl, 11. 10th Director General of Security Intelligence and 29. 11th Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Army. Well, who'd they replace? Precisely the ones cited by the proposer at the beginning of his presentation. Then I would like to point out what both the Secretary of State and the Minister have pointed out – that it is particularly important when appointing that there is mutual trust and compatibility between the minister and the official in the position. And of course, the changes in personnel are part of every government and are legitimate. However, appropriate personnel should be deployed to the appropriate locations, which means that there must be professional staff. With this I think both governments agree, both the government of Marjan Šarc and the government of Janez Janša. In his speech, however, the speaker said that those who were trained and mature would also be supported. Let's see if that's true. We know that in the public sector there are annual interviews held each year at the beginning of the year, and in this set of discussions, it is clear what are the success stories and who achieve an over-average result for individual institutions. And if you wanted to acquire professional staff, only those records would be reviewed, you shouldn't be looking for political affiliation. But of course you also have customers with a very long tradition, such as SD, and she certainly knew how to suggest it very well. Because I know that in Nova Gorica, they have appointed their own people to the lowest official posts in the time of their government, whether they were professional or not. I must also tell you that, during the time of the government of Marjana Sarca, both professional persons and those who were politically eligible for appointment have applied for a special competitive procedure, and you can guess three times who was finally elected. The expert certainly does not, but politically he does. And not just in one case, in a number of cases. I know that from my own experience. In fact, despite the fact that those who were politically responsible also had irregularities brought about by the inspection. Then it was also said by the proposer that the recruitment of John Janša was unprofessional and political and that we wanted to confuse the truth with this. Do you think he really wants the truth to be clouded? I think you want to blur the truth for yourself. Calling such meetings as today’s and the one that was held this morning — both refer to recruitment. And where do we run to at the end? Finally, we run back to what you initially said you wanted to have — power. But this authority is for you, not for the government of Janez Janša. To conclude, I will only read the words of Marjan Šarc at the time of the government’s appearance, two days later, 15. 9. For Saturday’s annex, Dela said: “Good leadership must be given to state societies. SDH must be more under the control of the Government, which is a representative of the people and also the owner of these companies. And if you are like a government owner, SDH cannot do things its own way." So he can't do things his own way. “The SDH is obviously too independent. If the Prime Minister says that he must not get involved in anything, but at the same time he is responsible for everything, but he cannot really do anything, then the influence of the Government is too little.” Not enough influences. “I want more influence only in those companies that are key to Slovenia. These are, for example, Petrol, Krka, Telekom." Is this also a way of professional training or political training? Judge for yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr Rudi Medved, prepare the mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, other representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We know quite a few films, as well as what theatre game is in between, bearing the title of Everything is to blame. One or him or someone knows who. In Slovenia, we have been watching the sequel for more than half a year. It's Marjan Šarec's fault. How convenient. If it wasn't for Mariana Charz, you'd have to make it up. Someone's got to be guilty. If we're not, there's someone else. And, of course, Marjan Sarec is very suitable for this. It is unseemly, in fact, that we have heard a comparison here today in the opening act of the Slovenian Democratic Party when they presented their views when they went into comparison, the situation at the beginning of the epidemic and at the end of the government of Marjan Šarc and now. Unworthy. Unworthy, and I don't even want to compare these numbers. Since 179 cases of infection were confirmed in Slovenia on 13 March. That's ten times less than we have today's confirmed. And it's been confirmed a day as much as we have today, unfortunately, the day of the dead. And here we hear comparisons or accusations, accusations that the outbreak in Slovenia is the fault of Marjan Sarec. Please. At the same time, we have also heard another clever nonsense – this is indeed a clever nonsense when we are talking about personnel – when the same representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party associated the dynamics of recruitment with the dynamics of restricting epidemics. That's a very clever nonsense. So, the more exponential it is, the more we would expect, then, the exponential epidemic to be limited, not exponentially increased. So the more we employ, the more this epidemic grows, the more you can conclude from it. That's a very clever nonsense. Well, but if we go now to this mantra, the mantra of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the coalition as a whole. Of course, don't let go of the rifles in the corn. Don't let go, it's really already one snout, and even though you know, you all know how it is with this corn and what happened last fall. We all know that the clients of the then coalition, the modern centre party and Desus, hide, can also hide in corn, but if we want, because the corn can be well hidden, let's say that the hiding in corn was negotiated with the SDS about a new coalition. Let's have some corn. And with his resignation, Marjan Sarec exposed it. From everything that has happened with a flashing rush below, it is quite clear that Desusa and the modern centre's parties did not shock this retreat. He wasn't shocked. And another is this famous list of the brutal recruitment of the government of Marjan Sarca. I regret that colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party today have not taken care of the institution in the National Assembly as well as at the Committee's meeting. In the absence of a wide variety of events, of course, such an installation can be welcome if there is no other event, but now I do not know how aesthetic and it is wasteful. They're preparing it now, well, thank God. This is now evidence of this incredibly brutal recruitment of the government of Marjan Šarc. Since you're operating on different numbers, 252, to help you, 252 are these brutal personnel. Of course, you draw them on a day for use, if necessary. For use, if necessary. If necessary, mention any director that he has been replaced, but there is no indication that the former Director may have been given a mandate in the same place and that another Director has been appointed, or that any Director has also resigned, and that is what is happening! That's what's going on. It is happening that someone resigns, and it is possible for us to have experienced it. We have not kept anything secret that the Police Director has been appointed, that he has been appointed the Head of the Owl, but that the Chief of the Criminal Police has already escaped to another duty in Belgrade, or that somewhere else he has been appointed a new one. But everything else just drops out, and in many cases it's just routine appointments that the government has to make by law. For the saints of public institutions, various agencies and so on. Well, this is, of course, an example of one really brutal recruitment also of the composition of the mixed Slovenian-Babar Commission, 18 members. Look at him, ugly. But what's the worst thing we've heard here, but think about it, the changed composition of the provincial civil protection headquarters is shown as 98 brutal personnel. Well, that's a good one. Probably all of us from the coalition, and who else had to help us, walked all over Slovenia and recruited party members of the coalition, and, of course, LMŠ, to bring them into this composition of the civil protection provincial headquarters, because 98 had to be recruited. Think about it. And that when the social work centres were reorganised – you know that the reorganisation – was extended to 15 directors for this reorganisation. Yes, brutally, I mean, how did the government allow something to extend their mandate? And the founder's representatives, this is the government, in public institutions, and I could still list them. In the end, you'll find that you're scaring with something that's hollow, that's completely hollow, and there's nothing around. With this scare you now for six months and we do not need to provide this list, as the Member of Parliament has offered before, to provide this, because Nova24TV has already published this, I think, on the second or third day after Janša's government. And further on, it's obvious that the government of Marjana Sharca has been recruiting, and of course brutally, even after they've been doing business. Look at this list. Of course, no one actually read that list or pulled out what was right for him. From January to mid-March, there were indeed 20 executives appointed, I repeat, as directors of the Directorates. So when their term ended. And all these directors could be appointed by the Government for a full mandate with full powers, and all the legal bases for it were, and it did not. However, she did not do so, even for a simple reason — because we expected everyone to be replaced anyway. We could have appointed them for a full term, so that at least they could get their retirement, if you switched them, and we didn't do it. And we didn't do it. And then there's talk of an incredible invitation to 80, watch out, 80 party people. However, it was essentially a temporary invitation to tender for the purposes of the Presidency and none of these invitations was hired by the Government of Marjan Sarc. These calls have expired and, in fact, was a matter of deciding whether to hire these people in the hands of the government of Janez Janša. Now I don't know how many of them were employed, probably all left-handed and completely inappropriate. But I don't know, I don't know their future destiny, but that's what those calls were. Such, brutal ones — yes, of course they were brutal. I would like to draw attention to the oath of ministers and of the President of the Government here in this National Assembly at the time of taking office. Well, let's see what the President of the Government says, what the ministers say: "I swear to uphold the constitutional order, to follow my conscience and to work with all my strength for the welfare of Slovenia." So that we are not talking about the constitutional order and the constitutional order, what has happened to this government today in this area, and let us go on to prosperity. Then let's go to the well-being. “I will work for the welfare of Slovenia.” Now I ask you – and now I will not drag on the day of all the exchanges that are at issue for us and will be at issue, but you think they are perfectly normal – at 424 government staff in seven and a half months and 252, I have said the content of these personnel in 16 months and a half. You were surprised yourself today at this number 424 because someone let you know that it's all together, I don't know, there are 40 human resources solutions. Look, we didn't even tell you those 424 appointments or whatever we call it. We have not prepared these installations and have stretched the sheet across Parliament because, of course, these sheets would be once more longer than yours. No, we did not do this because we understand and know some of the obligations the Government has in the appointments. Of course, many of this is not disputed for us. Although the truth of the matter is not such a small number. It's not that small a number. If it was all over the end of mandates and who knows what else is going on, it's unusually large when we compare it to the numbers of the previous government, but well, let's let the possibility be true. I don't know why the Member was upset about where this data came from, because for this it's just a little bit of a treat, it's a little bit of a treat, it's got to look at, it's all public. This information is all public and has to be tried and counted. We didn't trouble it, we didn't, of course, until you draw out this list of 252 as some of the most incriminating things in this country and of course you have to handle the data. But this information is not yet as surprising as the work of the government of John Janša. Let's see, 2012-- it's three months. Three months. 312 appointments and 150 discharges in three months. Well? Now who's going to be the one who's going to be the one who's going to be the one who's going to be the one who's going to be the one who's going to At this point, I will end these allegations of brutality, and I am interested in what the hell the abolition of the independence of eight public regulators will contribute to the welfare of Slovenia. That's what I'm interested in. And what good will the replacement at the head of the Statistical Office and the Financial Administration do? There is no need to owe, no need to justify anything, I am interested in being a citizen of this country if the Government is working with all the resources for prosperity, what these two exchanges will do to benefit from prosperity. That's what I'm interested in. Look, that's what I'm interested in. In the final stage, I am interested in the budgetary impact. Maybe you have that information, too. Above all, this is the reason for this combination of eight public regulatory agencies, as we have heard here today – I think, and this is not the case for a primary school student, not for this national assembly and the Slovenian public. Without any basis to at least try to convince that it is not true that in the final stage the goal is the same as many other personnel, only that it will be even more elegant here because it will be possible to arrange everything at once. And don't tell me about it, they'll stay in position now, and then the National Assembly will name them. Yes, of course they will. Of course, the National Assembly will appoint them — on whose proposal? Who's going to propose their personnel? Who's gonna nod? Who's gonna nod? Who will be implementing the superpartner’s staff programme, which, of course, alone without the support of the obedient customers around them, cannot ultimately implement these human resources solutions in this area? And here, of course, it's crazy, there's no pears and japs, as we say. We do not believe in the well-intentionedness of these objectives. We don't believe it. The minister was already in the two previous governments, and these agencies were all the same, they worked. I don't believe that now, in the last few months, they've just started working so badly in the summer. Or they had worked so hard before, and he was carrying it inside. And he was carrying it inside, and now with all the force in the middle of the worst epidemic, it hit the plan. But now it's hit the plan, and now it's time to tear it all down, and we care about Brussels. We care about Brussels and – I must repeat this, although I am already on the committee – what an excuse, in fact, to work on the Dutch system. This time, however, the Netherlands, which once brought together three regulatory agencies after a two-year public debate, will come in handy. After two years of public debate, after two years of coordination with the acquis of the European Union. We have a Dutch system. Now I don't know how to say it, but with a one-night stand, not a public debate. One night, these agencies were available to comment on this plan, if any. You know what the English say in the pub when you have to pay for the pie? They say, "Let's go Dutch." That means everyone pays for it. Not everyone here will pay for it. Here we'll pay, the citizens will pay. The government won't pay anything here, and we'll pay the citizens and pay them up for a lot of other things. Otherwise, a small fraction of the Slovenian Democratic Party has sometimes fallen off the table and a small fragment in the form of a Transport Safety Agency has landed at the NSI. And yet they couldn't do it in some normal way, and that's what's going on in the media, because it's a purely classical political frame in terms of whether it's written or not, it doesn't matter if it's ours. And like he said, the minister probably got engaged before he did something right government, and everything is wrong when he does something left government, but it's okay. Is that it? Is that the right government? Is that the right government? To this day, I thought it wasn't the right government if we had two parties in the middle or left-wing province. Yes, of course it's the right government, of course it's the right government, and that's the coalition where the four parties are, according to the way in which all four SDS operate. Such a feeling is difficult to get rid of, as virtually everything is faithfully implemented by the programme of the parent party and ministers generally do not interfere with their work, ministers of the three parties. If I go back to this unfortunate period of epidemics, one thing is probably doomed to the government speaker. I doubt if he was authorized to say it publicly. And there was no response, and it is true that this was said on Friday 16 October at 5 p.m. and 40 minutes on national television. I would point out that the government speaker said that it was not the national television that was reporting and, of course, it would immediately be obvious that it was misreporting, but that the government spoke. I quote, 16. 10. This was: “The government ordered plans for the second wave over the summer, but some have hibernated and have not prepared plans, and now they are rushing to the neck.” These are the words of a government speaker, this is a man in an official position, I hope he knows what he's saying. Did such a statement come upon any response within the Government, to any action? He said practically everything about it. Everything. Some people, we don't know which ones, didn't make plans because they hibernated over the summer. Who has hibernated, and that's what we're interested in right now, I believe that all the people in this country, we're all affected by this epidemic. Here, however, it is clearly stated as a result of the fact that people in charge of certain tasks are the result of the staffing of this government. At the final stage, these people were scrambling there to do this, this, and this. What they're doing is what they're supposed to do. They didn't do it because they were hibernating. I don't know if that's what the government speaker said in the same breath, and I'm not going to assign it to that day, but what else did the government speaker say? “It’s never so bad that it could not be worse.” So he obviously knew what he was saying. We thought it was a phrase, but once he said, "Enjoy it while you can" and now it's made it a little harder. But apparently, the man knew what he was saying. If he knew that people had hibernated and had not done theirs, of course, it would be even worse. And so, unfortunately, after the human resources tsunami, we have these viral tsunamis, which are connected by reason of the way that the more we're training, the worse it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Marko Koprivc, prepare Mr Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, the distinguished other present, invited, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members! Allow me first to answer what several representatives of the coalition have pointed out today – why we are actually sitting here today. I tell you that I would most agree that it would be right, given the situation in the country – given that the rise of infections from day to day increases, that the situation is really critical, we could say one of the most difficult situations in the history of modern Slovenia, that this virus poses a serious threat to both the economy on the one hand and to human health on the other – I would expect the Government to bring all the other things into line with this current situation and to focus in particular on solving the health crisis in Slovenia. And in this case, of course, such meetings as today would not be invoked by the absolute opposition. Unfortunately, reality is very different. Instead of worrying that at a time when the epidemic had stopped in some way during the summer, you would care to provide sufficient hospital beds to ensure the personnel for the second wave, which had been predicted and it was clear that it would happen, you would rather have thrown yourself into the workforce in all possible areas. Of course, by the examples you love to follow, Orbana, Hungary, Poland, and elsewhere. We are actually trying to dismantle the core social subsystems by the largest coalition party, the SDS, with the silent support of other coalition parties. And yet, dear colleagues and colleagues, the opposition cannot be silent and we cannot in any way assume responsibility for your actions and remain silent and overlook them all. Instead of dealing with the health crisis, you first went to the NIJ and all those experts who might have seen different solutions to this crisis were excluded from the process itself. You were changing the leadership of Furs. Why? This has been exposed several times today. Why? You can't tell. It wasn't the end of the term. You've been changing the Director or Director of the Bureau of Statistics. Not to mention the repressive authorities, not to mention that we already have the fourth director of the NPU, but the second director of the Police. The first one, together with the renegade Minister Hojs, resigned when he announced his resignation and announced his resignation because he did not agree to house investigations with the Vice-President of the Government. But that's another story we've talked about a lot, but it's certainly unacceptable and inappropriate. And, Mr. Secretary, after you have given up irrevocably and are still sitting here in front of us today, it is difficult for citizens and citizens to have any confidence in you and in the government that you and your President are greatly personalizing. In short, these political cleansings are even in these very difficult times tasteless and unhygienic. I agree, of course, with the principled position that has been repeatedly expressed today, since each government changes its own people – indeed, every government sets its own people. We may also be critical of previous governments that there have been too many human resources exchanges, but not every exchange is the same. It depends on who he stands for. Who he stands for, and above all under what circumstances. I repeat, this is an emergency. Slovenia and the whole of Europe are in a really difficult time because of the health crisis, and I would expect government representatives to take instead of tweeting their staff to places that are not even crucial to the management of this crisis, but are also crucial to the management of social sub-systems in the future, rather to get extra beds, to save their homes for older citizens and so on. Even in the spring, we listened to criticism from the new government about how the previous government had poorly taken care of and prepared the country for the health crisis. And how did we get out of the first wave? In the first wave, I think we had a maximum of 70 people per day infected and slightly more than 100 at a time in hospitals, today these numbers are many times larger. We are at the very top of the European Union. I agree that there may have been several factors, but you certainly had time to prepare for this. But no, you meant that you could submit all the social sub-systems, that you attacked the media, that you failed through your supervisors today – not directly, Minister, that you would not fix me – to replace the Director-General of RTV Slovenia, but you failed, one vote went away. But these are the authoritarian purposes of this government – the subjugation of the entire society. I tell you again that we really do not want such atrocities in the opposition, and I believe that this is not what citizens and citizens want, so we will keep this in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u111	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Željko Cigler has the floor, Mr Robert Pavšič is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives, Mr. Hoys! The current debate has made it clear that we are in a time of severe health, social and economic crisis, in which every effort should be focused, in particular, on ensuring the health and life of people in this country. There is no time for other things, especially not for severe disagreements, and as is said today, brutal human resources change. Especially not those who do their job successfully. But before I go to the content, I'd say this. Mrs Iva Dimic of New Slovenia, I respect her fellow Member, has said certain things before about school nutrition – I must say this – that are not true. Indeed, Mrs Kusteceva, Minister of Education, has not regulated anything about this issue. The children were hungry in the first wave, and she squandered EUR 11.8 million, children from socially weak families. I've given the initiative to settle the matter, to respond to no one. Just the suggestions, how. Left along with the Social Democrats, she wrote a proposal to amend the School Diet Act to regulate it immediately, initiatives, no response at the moment. However, the Ministry had an interview with the municipalities, where it told them to arrange for the municipalities to provide food and transportation to the socially weak students themselves. That's all that was done. In short, hungry, socially disadvantaged primary schoolchildren in Slovenia are not taken care of. Another time. When Mr Hojs received comments on the manner in which he was recruited in the NPU, his reply was that he had mutilated and discredited Mr Dark Male, former director or director – still legitimate, probably after what the administrative court had decided – the NPU. Next thing you know, keep going. The point of today's debate is this. The human resources exchanges carried out by the government of Janez Janša in all social sub-systems and companies with the majority ownership of the country actually result in an increasingly totalitarian and authoritarian Slovenia, which is managed in such a way that all decision-making bodies and institutions are set up by their own, our own staff, most of which are members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. And with one political staff, which in many cases is legally and constitutionally controversial – which virtually every debater here by the opposition has already said, and this is also pointed out by the profession from various fields, from lawyers, security experts, economists to sociologists – and in particular means one intervention in the expertise and independence of these institutions, all of which affects their work now, at the moment. Police, Furs, Financial Office, Statistical Office, Anti-Money Laundering Office, see if the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party are headed by these institutions. It's an eclectic conflict of interest. The leaders at Dars, 2TKK, Slovenian State Holding, NIJZ, directors of public institutions, national museums and so on. And on the other hand, on the other hand, he attacks and unacceptably insults justice, the prosecution in this country. It is also mandatory to include attacks on the media, environmental NGOs, on culture, on art, on the profession – if I mention the profession, I will only mention the fates of Dr. Eržen, Dr. Knaflja, Dr. Žagar – on prosecutors, on justice. And what is crucial to citizens – and this is very important, please – is that you, who swear to democracy, take with your demands to ban the referendum on citizens and citizens of Slovenia the opportunity to make public their views on the many actions, laws or policies that the current government is leading. For the last time, however, it was most interesting, funny for the National Assembly that on the one hand, the government coalition voted against the referendum to use 780 million for weapons, and on the other hand, it fully supported the Ombudsman's report on how to protect human rights in Slovenia. In short, it's a funny position. I must say that this limitation of human rights is in fact about the fact that these things cannot stand for an absolute long. And if we add more and more often to the restriction of fundamental human rights, it is freedom of movement, freedom of maintenance, freedom of protest or freedom to express one's own opinion, it is clear that the existing government coalition is building another republic. This is not the constitutional, democratic and social Republic of Slovenia. I hope you Members and Members are aware of these responsibilities. The party of the modern centre, Desus, Nova Slovenija and also the Slovenian Democratic Party, so no one has given you a mandate in the elections. Because, as previously said, when you ministers swore as ministers, you said: "I will respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia." Virtually all members and members of the opposition, expert opinions, media and also people on Fridays tell you that you are violating many constitutional rights. Some of these have already been pointed out by the Constitutional Court or the Administrative Court in Novi Gorica, Mr Hojs. I think you've overstepped one of your constitutional and statutory powers a long time ago as a coalition and a government. At the same time, the Government has focused on human resources accounting and human resources clearance not in our own, but in all state and public institutions and has virtually no interest in the content and social role of these institutions, the content and purpose of these institutions. The government is virtually ignoring the issue of the public, as well as our professions in the National Assembly, what the police, NPU, State Holding, Financial Administration or Pedagogical Institute or the Statistical Office or NIJS are doing in the leading positions of these institutions. What does this mean for the work of these institutions? And what is essential is the removal of the personnel that have managed these institutions in a high-quality and successful manner. The results of government or coalition human resources measures that we see every day are of great concern to us. They are increasingly cruel and particularly felt by citizens. The health crisis is getting worse. Health care is closing down, it is becoming inaccessible to patients, there are alarming data on patients and deaths due to covido, and this is evidence that this government or Prime Minister Janez Janša no longer controls the epidemic. The economy destabilizes, stops, closes, forgives employees. Sport, culture, tourism, hospitality, commerce, service activities, these are no longer available. They're stopped. Poverty, unemployment, hopelessness, and anger are growing sharply in this country. And culture and art were virtually eliminated by the cessation of activities and funding. Gardens, schools, colleges are closed. I will. Children and young ones, as if they no longer exist. And, crucially, public programmes have been virtually abolished by voicing an emergency situation for which the economy is being abused. That's what I'd say. I am actually asking coalition parties: are you aware of your objective and specific responsibility that by voting in favour of measures, you have demolished and disrupted the democratic constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia and the well-being and public health of our citizens? And that's what we're talking about today. On the results and consequences of the operation of the government of Janez Janša and his personnel tsunami. This policy is strongly rejected and demanded by the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Pavšič has the following word, Ms Eva Irgle is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u114	Well, at today's session, your arguments on the other side are constantly falling into the water. This comparison of 240, 420 doesn't even buy the minister anymore. He just threw it in the first place because he saw that you blew it through. In fact, it is not only a conflict of powers but actually a subjugation of all branches of power to one man alone. Legislative – he has already succeeded, 44 votes depending on the way he votes. That's the result. Executive – this one's all yours anyway. Justice — this is the biggest thorn in your heel. But today you tried very brutally with the fourth branch of power to make the 425th exchange, and you failed luckily. And the police are also going to your liver. Even before the handover was made, the government had already replaced the first lady, the first female police officer. It was replaced by Mr. Travner. He did his job, first in the purchase of protective equipment, where I think he illegally intervened in the procurement process and then with Mr Dark Male. And what did he get for the prize? It's a job at Darsa. What kind of job? One that was until he got here, it wasn't at all. And what happened before that? Prior to that, he became President of the Management Board, Vice-President of the Party, who today said that politics must withdraw from business, New Slovenia. Finally, Nova Slovenija, with the President of the Board, paid this bill to win her man at the top of Dars. It was necessary to establish a new job and there to hire the man who did his job in the Police. And then all of this wraps up nicely, and we'd say our southern brothers, nothing to anyone. Yeah, it's not gonna go through that easily. I wonder if we still live in the same country. In your opinion, all you do is not only completely normal, but even good for this country, it benefits us. I am extremely useful to us, yes. Are we in Iceland? That's where the lustration was made. We also have some sort of lustration, but slightly different, according to your vats and criteria. You're just right-wing conservatives, so opponents of some progressive development policy. And since your previous government has become a very big problem, it's become too advanced, too developmental, you've found her conservatives in the fifth column, in the two parties, in the autumn. And you signed a treaty with the devil, a coalition treaty. Thus, apparently, customers who are not conservative after the omen have preserved their omen. But it's only supposed to hurt. We have heard this pain several times in debates today. I can understand it, but I can't excuse it in any way, you're still conservative, and you're still responsible for all the situation that is currently in the country. It's always the government's decision. The government always answers. Who's performing today on behalf of the government here? Only the minister was sent. We all know who should be sitting here today, but you were sent here, Mr. Secretary. Only twice since 13 March, Prime Minister Janez Janša participated in a press conference in Slovenia where journalists could ask him questions. Just twice! We don't count those Brussels journalists. And then she wonders why she gets so little time on TV. Yeah, if he's always hiding from the press, he won't answer. He sends others after the bones into the crane. But if this fight against the epidemic were different than it is today, if there was no evidence that this government had completely passed the epidemic exam, it would certainly be the Prime Minister of the Government on television all the time and could boast and have the right to boast. But today he is hiding and quiet, except on Twitter, which of course also has a meaning. The point is responsibility, that's it. And if you've told us that eight ministers in the government of Marjan Sarca have resigned – yes, they have resigned because they have taken responsibility. But you gave up, and you didn't give up, so you didn't take responsibility. Janša laid down because he was pulling all these strings because whoever was hoping to lift his head was instantly replaced. Evidence of this is only four exchanges at the NPU. And that's what gets the most into the sky! You replaced someone four times because he probably didn't do his job the way you thought he would. And Minister, I know you – because I know that very quickly you will try to deal with me very brutally now – I can't believe a word you say. You lied to my colleague two days ago in one day! And if I can't trust one minister, then believe me, there are many ministers I don't believe, another minister of this government, then I can't even trust the whole government. “The government does its work during the greatest epidemic,” I heard. Yeah, and the evidence for that is actually numbers. The greatest debt of this country in the history of Slovenia, and people get sick after an exponential function and you have done your job? You didn't! For example, according to the Germans, during the summer they trained doctors of other skills to be able to use covidolators as well, and they were further educated. No one can tell you that in six months you will educate new doctors, that is impossible! But in order for the system to adapt, that was expected. And it happened? Not even close. On October 18th, you only reacted when over 20% of the patients were infected! The Germans are doing this at 5% until some normal measures can be taken. Now you're going to close it all down again and apologize for the epidemic. That's not working. I don't know what you don't understand. If the situation wasn't so dangerous, it would be ridiculous, but it's dangerous, it's serious! Nobody laughs at you because it's not funny. And what are you doing in your position? You discredit the parties who dared to talk about the brutal personnel of this government. The comparison of Greece – let us compare you to Greece! What about Surs? How long did Greece lie with its data from the Statistical Office to deceive the European Union? But did you possibly have the same intentions by replacing the man at the top of Surs? As it was before, this constant apology, since others have done it — but do not do it better, not so clearly! I'll finish because there's still a lot to say. A human resources package, a credit card and a credit card, that's what's going on. The evidence for this is New Slovenia and the evidence for this, which my colleagues will also reveal, is still enormous. Right now, there are two viruses in this country, one of us is dealing with people and the health system, and the other is you. But there seems to be no vaccine against you. More.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Pashovich! I'd only say two things. First of all, I would say that half an hour ago your colleague, Mr Bear, was talking about that it wasn't right, so he kind of said that those people who have resigned are considered as replacements, if I remember correctly. He said, yes, but that guy ran out of time, and someone gave up, and we replaced him. Then give us the same vats to use. So the director of the police has resigned – do you expect us not to appoint another one? The director of the NPU has resigned – do you expect us not to appoint another one? About conspiracy theories, about how they gave up because of the pressure, and I can say the same about those you said earlier that they resigned from your office. So let's have the same vats. As far as other things are concerned, I don't understand what you and Iceland were going to say. I have to say, I would be extremely happy if we were in pursuit of banking crime and bank holes were like Iceland. Tell me, in six months they've identified the case, the police and the D.A. have prepared things so precisely that in the good half of the year, these quasi-professionals and these quasi-bankers have been convicted and are sitting today. Of course, it's not possible to pay back all that money that's been spent, but people are convicted, they're sitting. With us, however, the phenomenal NPU — I don’t know when this bank hole has happened — has not brought things that far — has processed things to be mature for the court. There's no one there! More. More, I hope so. And I don't know if that's what the NPU is doing, but the D.A.'s still doing it. So let's have the same vats here.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Reploco has Mr. Robert Pavlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u118	But I suggest you remain consistent. Darko the Male did not give up, he was relieved by Mr. Travner, who you called there. His resignation was accepted by you and at the same time resigned by yourself, but today you are sitting here, and Mr. Travner is employed by Darsa, where he was accepted by the Vice President of New Slovenia! Now you're talking, there's no political recruitment here, and people are retreating, and I don't know what else. Be consistent, you're him! And that. Director of the NPU, this is now a function, last name, and not even important, there's been an injustice. He proved this injustice in court, he has a judicial judgment, and instead of respecting this judgment, you are looking for reasons to avoid.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u120	Look, Mr. Pashovich, you're deceiving again. If the judgment were legally binding, it would be realistic. The Court has given the precise guidance that it is necessary to rule again. Don't lie here, come on. I've already told you twice that we will respect matters, we will rule again, I mean not me, the police, and it will be done exactly as the court has asked. But don't talk about some power of attorney, it wasn't a legal judgment. Even more, even the position of the Supreme Court, I think from September 10th on, which we will undoubtedly take into account, is that it is also possible to enforce a review of the procedure in such cases. This was not possible until September 10th, but this is also possible by the Supreme Court judgment of 10 September. So far away from the power of attorney.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The replica first. Mr. Pawswich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u122	I'm gonna break this chain because it doesn't make sense. The verdict is legally binding. And even if you need to repeat the procedure, take him back to work and repeat the procedure! But it's not that a man is now somewhere in the jokes between heaven and earth because you've made up your mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Before we proceed with the debate, I suggest that we calm down a little, all of us who do not have a word, do not jump into the floor of the debaters. The applicant made a statement. Here you go, Mr. Nick Prebil.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u124	Thank you very much. This time, I will respond to the performance of Minister Hojs and add a few more questions to him. As far as judgment is concerned. Minister, if you've read this well, I believe that because you talk about it more than once, you are talking about the illegal discharge of the director of the NPU. And because of this illegal resolution, the court brought the case back to the first stage. That's a little different from what you've been saying all along. That's the first thing. The other thing that is. Minister, it's really hard for me to use that word in this national council, but you keep telling the truth, I'm sorry. The last time I saw you at a board meeting, you even accused me of taking a bad look at things, and you snobbed me to go and read things well. And I really went to check out the back and the videos that are available online. We were talking about the invitation. I asked you clearly about the June call for the director of the NPU and you answered me, and now I will quote from the magnetogram because I printed here: “So you ask me how it is possible that such an invitation to tender for the director of the NPU was published. Well, I suggest you take a look at the invitation to tender. So there was no invitation to tender for the Director of the NPU you are talking about.” That's what you told me, Minister. I went to look at it again because I said it, but maybe I said it wrong. But no, I went to listen, we were talking about the June invitation. What's that? [[shows the object]] On your website, a special competition for the director of the National Investigation Office. So, Minister, now tell me why you're doing this. Why are you here deceiving Members and telling lies and falsehoods if we show you things clearly? Then I'm asking you about another thing. Let's leave the place of this deputy, the assistant, whoever you're talking about, then you've created for this lady. Then there is another document that excites much – what is it called? – discomfort to our Members. The government document states that six police representatives would be appointed to this, as they say. That's what the police put out, or it's what the government put out. There's one name that doesn't appear in the documents we can get from the police. I watched the contribution a few days ago, where you told the well-respected journalist on the phone that in fact the police director proposed orally to this candidate and that she was appointed by the government. And then the journalist asked you, and how is it possible for such things to be done in such an important way in writing, while for everyone else there is a document. And then you said, and it was a little bit written, and it was a little oral. Make up your mind, Minister, what happened. So I'm really asking you to bring slow papers, because I don't believe you're angry that you say it's out of the sun, and I see it's the sun, and I almost don't believe you anymore. [[…]] Because what you're doing, including the untruths you've told your colleague Bakovic, goes beyond being a minister at all, and with all due respect, allow me to deceive this respected state council. So wait for the question, because I want to see these documents. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Applicant [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] What is it, Mrs. Sukich? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u126	Just for a little while. The Court found that the Head of the NPU is only the Head of the Organising Unit of the Criminal Police Administration, which is the internal organisational unit of the General Police. Since the Director-General of the Police is an official and not a political official, the Law on Public Servants cannot be applied to the discharge of the Director of the NPU, which allows political officials to be dismissed without any ground of guilt within a one-year period. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister has signed up for this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u128	Yes, yes, Mrs. Sukičeva, all you have to do is read the verdict. Next, he wrote and instructed us that after that article he could not be resolved, but it was possible to resolve him differently. The whole judgment has to be read. As for whether the court has understood or decided as the legislator's intention is to deal with the NPU, we will find that out. I'm sure we'll put an audit into such a court judgment. Since everyone who passed the law claims that it was entirely different, the NPU is also such a body where the Police Director has the possibility of discharge and appointment within one year of his retirement. As far as this is concerned, Mr Peril, I will once again say - but I don't know, maybe you were outside earlier - in writing and orally. I don't have anything to decide. I told this to the press, I said this already today in this Chamber, part of the proposals for the appointment of this commission was made in writing by the Police, one of these proposals was made orally. And I have nothing to defend myself. Where does it say everything has to be written? Where does it say that? This committee was appointed by the government, not the police. And in the end, as far as deception is concerned. I hope we can get to the bottom of this one. Last time you asked me about the invitation to work, Peter Grah. That's how I understood you. If I was wrong, I apologize to you today. I said that the invitation to tender for the employment of Petra Grah was never an invitation to tender on 9 June for the Director of the NPU. This was an invitation to tender where two other candidates applied, and for both other candidates, the Council of Officials gave the opinion that they were okay, the Police Director had not decided on any of them. In the meantime, Mrs Petra Grah applied for another invitation, and Mrs Sukič and I discussed this with Mrs Sukič, and then the lady even fixed me up so that it was not an assistant or an assistant, or vice versa, if you remember, Mrs Sukičeva, and I do not see any problem here. I didn't lie to you. However, the invitation to tender from June was opened after Mr Darko Male. I have talked more today about when the invitation to tender is needed. As soon as someone is released, we are obliged to initiate the procedure for the invitation to tender by the Council of Officials. If I misunderstood you, then you're right.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Proposer, Mr. Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. Well, that's just what we came up with. Minister, I then asked you at the regular meeting of the National Assembly, where Members are asking questions from Members, yes, about the June call for the Director of the NPU. And, of course, then we continued to talk about further procedures where Petra Grah Lazar was involved. Because then you told me that you had no comment and that you had no opinion on the matter. But then you told me at Monday's meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, one week later that you had now considered the matter. I will tell you again and this is quoted from the magnetogram: “How is it possible that such an invitation was issued by the director? If I understand you correctly, it's nice to see what kind of invitation was even issued. Well, I haven't responded to that on Monday, and today I'm going to react. So there was no call for the director of the NPU you're talking about. It was an invitation to tender for the Deputy Director of the NPU, not an invitation to tender for the Director of the NPU.” But indirectly you have already said here something that does not fit together, because on your website or government website there are two calls for the director of the NPU. I believe that Mrs Petra Grah, who was then subsequently withdrawn to the intervention of the Prime Minister of the Government, applied for the job invitation you put in. But we've been talking about the June call for the director of the NPU since the beginning. So, yes, now we've come to the conclusion that you're the one who didn't properly listen to my question. However, as I say, I will certainly request certain information through a written question from the Member of Parliament. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u132	I'll be done. I have to say again, I understood you last time, and so our whole discussion went this way to make you jealous, Mrs Petra Grah. That's how I understood our discussion. And there was no invitation for the Director of the NPU at the time of Mrs Petra Grah, we talked about this. Even more, you told me that the June invitation was arranged for this lady. That we've reduced the number of years needed to manage. I've already explained this to you today that it's not true. So I hope we understand each other now. Of course, I will be happy to answer any of your questions in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Eva Irgle has the word, and Joseph Horvat is prepared. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr. Secretary! First of all, I should like to say that I have no objection to discussing such and other content in the National Assembly, but at this point I must assess that this debate is probably not the most appropriate for this time, given the difficult and difficult situation we have faced. And even if we know that there was nothing wrong with this government's staffing, as we have explained many times today, then I will work harder on it. Above all, dear colleagues and colleagues, today's debate has nothing to do with solving the situation we are in. However, I would like to thank the Minister for Home Affairs here, who, despite having another, more important job at this time, has been sitting here since one afternoon and has patiently answered all your questions. Any government can appoint people who trust them to key positions. I hope that we have already taken this lesson in these debates. Any government can appoint people who trust them to key positions. Of course, it must act by appointing professional and competent people to such positions. And this government did it. The most time you've discussed here is appointments, discharges, transfers to the police. All these discharges, transfers and appointments were made in accordance with the legal basis and all complied with the prescribed conditions. So there's no problem here. In fact, today's debate should not be at all. The former government has also recruited, and we have not called any meetings on this subject, because it seemed normal for us to change power, first to do so by putting people you trust in in that tight circle, and you know that they will be able to drive some of your country's leadership vision. There's nothing wrong with that. In the opposition, you made a proposal for a meeting to discuss the political staffing of this government today. The list or the client of Marjana Šarca has replaced quite a few people on the first day of this government, and this has not been a problem, nor do I personally see any issue in this. President of the Government, every President of the Government has the right to put people around him who trust them. In less than two years, the government has replaced 252 people in the government of Marjan Šarc, and we do not bother with this either. But you know what's actually controversial and questionable to me, and today we're not even talking about this here, and we should be asking ourselves in the types of opposition about the staffing? For me, however, it is more questionable that while the government of Marjana Sarca has carried out ongoing business, so-called ongoing business, it has employed 80 new employees. And you'd also somehow understand that, because then you'd say it was because the Presidency is approaching. But what's interesting is they had three to five days at their disposal to sign up. So, what does that mean? That simply means you've already agreed on everything. That's a problem for me. It is difficult because the President of the Government himself has decided to resign, because he has found that he will not be able to handle this burden, this burden that is ahead of us, the situation that he has indicated, but at the same time he has dared to still recruit and employ people during the running business when we know what is being done at that time, what the work of the Government is at that time. That's unacceptable. In fact, the proposer of this agenda item should, if he is already attacking others, also point to his own species, because that is the problem. It's a problem, and it's the right thing to talk about. You pointed to exchanges, especially in the police, in the NPU, in the Bureau of Statistics, you say they happened at the Department of Defense Intelligence. What's the problem? Let me know where there's any problem with these replacements. In the Police there were exchanges under every government, in the NPU under every government, in the Statistical Office like this, in the Intelligence Security Service at the Ministry of Defence as well. I understand this in particular as a wish that those who have the Government that they form can, in these situations, cooperate with people who trust them and who can trust them that the vision of a government will thus be carried out, i.e. the projects and objectives that must be carried out. How do you imagine that in key jobs you would have individuals who have a diametric opposite position, say, from the vision of the government? [[…]] You can't do that, and you yourself know it very well. So, all of these discharges, which we talked about today, especially in the Police, were made in accordance with the legal basis, and all of them have fulfilled, all of them, Mr Prebil, have fulfilled the prescribed conditions. I think that the Minister of the Interior has explained this very well several times already today. At the press conference, you said the following, quote, “the government is at a time when all its powers should be directed towards solving the health crisis is served by brutal recruitment”. Well, let's take a closer look. As far as solving the health crisis is concerned. The government is working extremely hard to solve the health crisis, and it would be good for the opposition to take part in this, not by destroying and creating chaos in the country. To destroy and create chaos. It would be important if we worked together to do everything in our power to make this crisis as difficult as possible. Now for brutal recruitment. I don't usually use words like brutality, I think it's all so pretentious, but the first word she used was Mrs Prijović, in connection with Mr King. For she said that it was not for brutal recruitment directly, but for brutal pressures. The brutal pressures that have been exerted in order to accommodate themselves. If it was brutal recruitment, I won't say anything, but that's what the lady was talking about at the time, so brutal pressure. And today I've been listening to this word brutally all the time. Apparently, you've liked the word so much since then that you've just adopted it so much, but it has nothing to do with reality, and that's what we have to say. I'd say that. It cannot be why it is important that when a power is replaced – but we are in democracy and democracy, it is so that policies change, of course, in elections, and then there are certain movements in the workforce. [[…]] And why is that important? Because you cannot, for example, have important or key jobs, such as a person who forbids private doctors to help because, for example, he sees a conspiracy to privatize health care. Hard, isn't it? It's hard, it's hard. You can't have an individual who promotes, say, the insignificance and harmfulness of the app, if it's conspiracy and the establishment of a police state. You can't because you're having a hard time working together, because everything you do right is going to crash right away. Everything the Minister does for the good is falling apart. Everything that the government does is going to go bad right now. And look, it can't be the President or the Director of the National Investigation Office or the Police who protects economic and banking crime. If not, then tell me why nothing has been done in the area of banking crime, virtually nothing. There have been some cases, but look, it's not worth mentioning. Before that, Mr. Hoys said very well what it was like in Iceland. I agree, it's something else. Not to mention a bank hole. We also know here that virtually nothing has happened. So there can be no NPU director someone who can somehow protect economic and banking crime. It can't be a director, at least not under a government that wants to put the country in sound water. And that's the government, and that's the point. Everything else you're going to keep saying, look, it's irrelevant. That's a fact. And let these things be consecrated. How much does each of us actually do to get out of this crisis today? Let's just ask ourselves that. Let us ask ourselves how long the Minister is sitting here now to answer the same questions for the hundredth time, even though we know what the state is in, and perhaps the minister would be more needed elsewhere than here today. As a long-standing Member, however, I am concerned that when Members request a debate in the National Assembly, it must be held. There's no dilemma here. I'm very democratic. Very democratic. I can't do it any other way – what did Mr. Pavšič say before? That they're the left-wing progressive intellectuals. Yes, you are. Although I see nothing progressive on that side, intellectual also very rarely, given the debates I hear, it is very left, and that is true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The proposaler Nick Prebil asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I have to take this, dear colleague. See, if everything were to be b.p., as you say or as you say now, you don't think it would be possible for the court to rule that the discharge of the director of the NPU is illegal? Don't you think the numbers of the infected would be different if, as you say, they took all the appropriate measures? As far as the calls for the presidency are concerned, colleague Rudy Medved explained to you clearly, for a long and broad time, what and how it is, so that I would not really repeat myself. I suggest you listen to this. And these jobs that you were talking about didn't come from the government of Charche, because it was gone at the time. So please don't fool around here. Third thing, which is, or fourth thing, if you want. Indeed, it is said that everything is expected of the opposition, how the opposition is now ugly, because it refers to these things at this time – look at yourself, how ugly you are to do these many appointments and many other things that have nothing to do with the epidemic if you are dealing with it. So thank God that the opposition is in control of the ruling coalition, because this, as you say, is certainly crucial in democracy. So certainly is the time in the government of Janez Janša for 400 plus appointments during the seven-month period.I don't know what statistics show as we see – you've reached out there too and I'll be in touch in a few moments – you haven't really made it. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Horvath has the word, and the messenger of the Magi is prepared. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u138	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I am somewhat disappointed that so few are Members and Members of Parliament on the part of the motioners in this Chamber, when it comes to theirs as the most important point in this mandate. Well, a little bit of a joke, a little, really. I looked around Europe, my colleagues and colleagues, and I found out the following. The National Assembly, the National Assembly, is the only national Parliament currently dealing with such a topic as is now on the agenda, all others or a large majority of other national parliaments in the Member States of the European Union are working on how to combat infections, how to help people, how to help the economy not to stop. Now we're arguing here, who's been up there, who's been downgrading, who's been up there, who's been downgrading, who's been understaffed, and so on. This government was not created by its will, it was created because such a situation arose that a new government had to be established. Today, colleagues and colleagues, on the side of the speakers of this session – some of you have thrown masks off your faces and today you are reading to us, telling us that we, this government, this coalition, are guilty of the terrible spread of infections. It's true. Infections go in geometric order. You are reading: “Where were you in the summer that you did not prepare more rooms?” Of course, we return: “Where have you been, gentlemen, 13 years, that you have not prepared premises on the second floor of UKC Ljubljana on that foundation, which has been alone for 13 years in the shame of Slovenia and Ljubljana?” And there are hospital rooms there today. If we were credible, you and your client heads, the presidents, everyone, would be able to deploy a voluntary application. It doesn't limit infections, but it helps a little bit. The whole of Europe is following this, and I will not repeat what you told us when we introduced it. I'm talking about a voluntary application. You mock, and of course, it is normal to have supporters in Slovenian society. And this, of course, poisons the Slovenian public and does not contribute to some of our joint efforts, we should be working together to overcome this virus as quickly as possible and with as few victims as possible, human beings. I hope you don't want to get into power through the bodies. As far as substitutions are concerned, or whatever, whatever you've already said. I have here a letter with which Mr Andrej Osolnik writes the following. “Unfortunately, my personal circumstances are such that I can no longer perform this difficult function.” In particular, the functions of the Director-General of the Security Intelligence Service at the Ministry of Defence. »Delegation requires engagement from morning to evening. I'll let you know at 1. 9. I leave 2020 solely for personal reasons. Finally, I would like to thank you, Mr Tonin, for your support, proper leadership and cooperation in the past. I am ready to continue my work wherever you choose.” This is part of a letter, a statement of resignation, actually, Mr. Osolnik. You say we cut him off. The government then appointed Mr Jaros Britovska on a proposal from Minister Tonin. Look at his résumé! Your heart beats when you see the experience it has. You are receiving a replacement at the summit of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces – see the CV of Mr Robert Glavas. Your heart beats when you see what he's accomplished, what medals and so on. And it's basically just a follow-up, because he was Deputy Chief of Staff. So this session is true — I am very sorry, I am very sorry that we will be discussing this for nine hours without conclusions. In order to at least propose, I do not know, for example: it might be a good and rational step in the right direction to introduce a re-examination from the public administration, which would mean some kind of entry into the service relationship and would prevent people whose expertise and knowledge is lacking from performing their service in the public administration; the examination should be carried out by all public servants who were employed after 2007 when the examination was terminated without a legal reason. Colleagues and colleagues, in Slovenia alone, as regards the role of policy in bureaucrat recruitment, in time a broader social consensus was established, which was also institutionalised by supplementing the Law on Public Servants in 2005. The government has been granted the right to the innocent, yes, in a political round-up, the discharge of the most important officials. Article 83, paragraph 5, of the Civil Servants Act lists these matters. The previous version of Article 83 was much more radical, and the Government or the Minister was able to discharge the Director-General at any time within his five-year term. Now it's not like that. This has been arranged, improved in our mandate 2004-2008. But why am I telling you this when it probably doesn't touch anyone? I can accept your observation that the government has done nothing – well, within 100 hours, since it swore here, it has brought before this national assembly the first antikron package, several laws, the whole package. In 100 hours, not 100 days, 100 hours. But if it's the government, then as a Member, I'm asking her to work, to work effectively, and I don't care about any staffing, really. Those of you who were once CEOs – you know how you recruited. I'm sure the expertise isn't enough! In fact, there must also be some compatibility, as we have already heard today, with the one who is recruiting, or better said, compatibility with the vision that the ministry, government, coalition has. That's what this is about. We'd be competent, dear proponents, if we were to be presented in the paper with an analysis of how much, when and how the government has been in charge, I don't know which one has been in the past since 2000. That would be some real analysis. Now you're talking about numbers. Earlier, a colleague from the List of Marjan Šarc said, quote: “By the way, the government of Janez Janša has been changing 424 people plus 323 on the commissions during these seven months.” Huh, what committees? I don't know. I hope my colleague knows what she's saying. What commissions? It's like a number, like pears and apples and so on. I didn't go and I won't go because I don't care because I'm dealing with other things. For me, the key results are crucial and Nova Slovenija participates exclusively in this government to implement its programme. How long have we been in the government since 2000? Well? And I could go and quote you on what some politicians have said after Bayuk's government fell, and so on and so forth. And that sucks — what do people get out of it today? From this whole debate today, what do they have? Nothing. They've got nothing, nothing. We want to move borders in this government. We didn't invest that much in the program for nothing. We want to implement and regulate areas that have not been regulated decades ago and things that have gone on too long. You know what resources we have, and on these resources, together with the other coalition partners that I'm grateful for from this place, we're moving borders. That's where my colleague used to make fun of the president of Dars. I could be here quietly and I would say, oh, let the matter go by as soon as possible – no, I will defend this colleague and my friend Valentin Hajdinjak on all the weights! He's been in politics since he was young, and he knows exactly how politics works. If he had not been good, the Government would not have appointed him as a press representative there for the 2004-2008 term. On the day of the meeting of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, he arrived at work at 4: 00 a.m. to check that all matters for the media, for the public are prepared to zero, to be precise, to the second decimal place. He went to work at 4:00 in the morning. She's got management skills and experience. And things are moving on Dars, and the construction of the 3rd development axis started. And so far there has always been a tie in Slovenia, but here you will have to agree with me, there has always been a tie when someone took office, she has been replaced, the government has replaced someone, she has set up her own, but there has never been a tie if someone has done a bad job and there have been no results! And that's what we want to change. We're interested in the results and nothing else. And I wish that in this area, in this direction, we all work together somehow. That we actually have results, not that we've been spinning in the same place for 15 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dejan Židan, prepare to be Ambassador Marijan Pojbič. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u140	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, distinguished Members, a nice greeting, Minister with a team, Secretary of State! In fact, I have to tell you that the debate on political personnel related to politics and human resources is not too close to me, and I will tell you why on my own case. When I became Minister in May 2010, expectations were that all those connected to the right side would be removed. And then people were surprised. The most important person in the agricultural ministry, who is in fact almost more important than the agricultural minister, as all the large payments go, more than 300 million, through him, through his agency, is the Director of the Agricultural Markets Agency. But I asked why I would replace this man, if he was a good man, manage his business, as a minister I felt safe and trusted him until I had the chance to be a minister. Now, I think the gentleman is working for you, Mr. Minister, but I can only say good things about him. And everyone told me, they told me, that it was the SDS or the government that Mr. Janez Janša then appointed — yes, what? He does his job correctly when I come to Europe, they say that we have someone who is perhaps even overly precise, perhaps therefore a little too slow, but that the things that go through his hands, which are hundreds of millions of euros, are really well reviewed. And I asked him to stay. Even when there were attacks on him, I asked him to stay, and I protected him for all I knew. Second case. When one of the other directors, when his mandate expired — as well as a member of your party — did not know what to do, but he had eight children, I told him, look, I have another seat in my office until you found something else, you were corrected to me, you have a safe job here until the government is replaced. And he was there in my office, doing his stuff well, and then he found work somewhere else. Come in. People didn't understand what happened to me when I tried to break the 20-year-old monopoly of forest concessionaires that the SD didn't embodi, and the right-hand side didn't, the then liberal democracy. But the result was that 10, 15, maybe 20 million euros per year, which would remain in the country, went into private pockets, in a legitimate way, because we had a system that Europe did not know. And after we tried to get into a system like Bavaria, Saxony or some other country, people in Parliament did not understand. “What about you, Minister,” they asked me, “that in the eight-member supervisory council, the agricultural ministry, where you were able to name only one person?” Two people could be appointed by the Ministry, which was then headed by the SMC, one by the Ministry of Human Affairs, led by Desus, named one by the NSI and three by the employees. And I said, look, I have two goals, the first goal is to finally get the money to the Forest Fund, so that we can rebuild all the forests, not just the state, and secondly, that profit can eventually go to the demographic fund. I want to tell you that the human resources issue as such has never been close to me. It was close to creating an effect. And that's why, of course, I was amazed at the beginning of the second part of the crisis, which concerns the epidemic of covida, when there were simply no epidemiology experts anywhere. If I understood why the Government had removed Dr Nino Pirnat, who is a member of the Social Democrats, I no longer understood why Mr Eržen had been removed, but in no case did I understand why, at the time of the most likely health crisis in Slovenia, he had become the head of an institution that should be leading the fight to control the epidemic, a doctor who is an expert, if I remember correctly, to help those with drug problems is not an epidemiologist. And then, like all the Slovenian public, I watched the other gentleman, and the third man, who tried, did not arouse confidence. But why do I say all this, Your Honor? My words in the National Assembly, I don't know if you still remember, honourable Members and Members, when there was a candidate for a mandate, namely Mr. Janez Janša, were sincere: can politics work in a different way at a time when we don't master the epidemic? There will always be some prestigious struggles between the left side of Parliament and the right, and another environment is in between, so politics works, but can we, at a time when we want to control the epidemic, push it aside and act together as long as the epidemic is not contained? At first, it even looked like until the Crown Act 1 was passed to make it possible, and then we were shocked at how it was possible that none of our proposals were adopted. I am not saying that the left-hand side of Parliament has all the intelligence in its possession – it does not, as it does not have a central one, as it has neither a right hand nor a right hand, as no one else has. But we can do it together, and we know more. And we were pushed away. We were estranged and, in practice, we needed crown 2, crown 3, crown 4, crown 5, and now we're going to have a new outbreak of crown 6. Respected and respected, I appeal to you that we have all the time, whatever we are talking about today, in the head of one piece of data, and that is that the number of deaths yesterday, if the data the Government is talking about, hold, I think, 25. A similar number was the day before. Why is it so important that we have this in front of us all the time? Therefore, respectable and respected, because Germany, which went another way, along the way of building people's trust – this Mrs Merkel has very well mastered – had 49 dead yesterday, if I have read well. What we need to know is, the country has more than 80 million inhabitants, so if we put on our size, if we put our size in German, we'd have more than a thousand dead yesterday. It's a crisis. This is a real crisis. And when it comes to political personnel, illegal political personnel, you see the opposition, too, what is the most painful thing. I understand that you replace the CEOs where you want to replace them, it is clear to me that you have your cabinets, it is clear to me that you have your secretary of state and secretaries, what I do not understand is unacceptable to me, is that you are all organs that want and must investigate suspicions, what was right or wrong with the acquisition of protective equipment, you are human resources subordinate. Whether it's one organ, another, another, third, or whether it's pressure on the prosecution that we're already seeing, or whether it's all the time maligning the courts. If they pass a judgment that you like, it's the courts, if they pass a judgment that you don't like, then suddenly they're guilty. This, Your Honor and Your Honor, is a decommissioning. So my question is: is it still a good time to say stop, say, people, smart in hand, we fight together for the health of citizens and citizens? Stop, let's give people peace with all the other games, except we have to control the epidemic. When we control the epidemic, the policy should continue to work in its path, good or less, but not at the time of the epidemic. So I do not understand today's debates differently than I do another appeal. The opposition thinks you're doing it wrong. Of course you think you're doing everything right and that the opposition is malicious. But it's not, and we're not really. The question is just this: but are we still able to say stop, from this point on, because the matter is so serious, will we be able to deal with the epidemic next month, two or three, and we will be able to control it? To tell you the truth, Mr. Secretary, you need to hear why some fear is present with me. Last week, I don't know if you noticed, on Monday I put on Mr Tomaž Gantar's Minister of Health, because, of course, I also received data through public media, that 270 000 doses of vaccine purchased, purchased flu vaccines experts say that the most vulnerable people will be, especially vulnerable, if they get the flu and covid at the same time, and because it has been heard that there will be no enough, I gave an initiative Monday last week: please stop these species that are emerging, and let's say that it is necessary to protect people who are more sensitive, older than 65 years and more. [[…]] Today, look, Mr. Minister, one week from then, the only thing I've heard is the yawning, yes, but the vaccine is really too small. And the government could hit the table. On Monday night, we could say stop, we will give the highest priority for these 270 thousand doses of vaccine to those who voluntarily want to be vaccinated, out of 600,000 and out of several pensioners. It's been a week, not even an answer. I mean, there's got to be a formal answer in 30 days, but did anyone hit the table and say, no, those vaccines that they did, we're gonna give to the pensioners?Oh, my God! What do I have to say to you, Mr. Secretary? I'd really like this time to deal only with the epidemic. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u141	Thank you very much. First, Minister Aleš Hojs asked for the floor, then he will be given the floor by the proponent Nick Prebil. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Jew! I have to say that what you've been discussing is actually signed with a big start. I also have to say about what you were talking about in the end, that we are not only on the basis of your call, but also on the basis of what the NIJS presented and the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health – because, as I know, colleague Gantar has been sick for a few days or a whole week, and what is very sick, does not have covida, but is actually very cold, as I have talked to him, taking antibiotics and so on, so this excuse here is clearly – talking. Exactly what you have now said about how to ensure flu vaccination for those most vulnerable groups, i.e. pensioners and, in my view, health workers first. In my laity behaviour, I understood, both the NIJS and the Secretary of State, that the priority will be exactly what you are saying. It is true that no one expected or either, we expected that there would naturally be a greater response given that this time vaccination against influenza is free of charge, that it will all of a sudden be such a rush. [[…]] However, it is also true that even if this were not so, even if it were not free, it is, as I know, as I can understand from their implementation, at this point this vaccine is actually very difficult to obtain, also this vaccine on the European market at this time in some recession in terms of affordability. But it was assured that they would do their utmost to ensure that a sufficient amount of people would be provided in the shortest possible time. As far as your debate is concerned, given the footage, and I won't be long, I'll be very brief. Thank you for doing this. I have to be honest, and even when I came to the Ministry, when I was informed that someone who was running for Secretary-General at my ministry was working with you before, I didn't get information that this was right, like you said, that you got information that was right. I received information that he was left and that I should be careful that he was working with Mr. Jew. But that didn't interest me, I thought a man competent, professional, honest, and today he's the secretary-general of the ministry, and that's all I can say in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Nick Prebil has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I just want to add something, a few things. My colleague, Židan, was excellent in presenting the situation we are in. That is why it is crucial that, despite this time or even in these times, the opposition looks at the ruling coalition and draws attention to any mistakes or mistakes that are taking place. Certainly, these mistakes or inadequacies include the staffing of this government. I'm really asking if, in the coalition, you think the opposition is just unconditionally enjoying the fact that it's supposed to tease you. No, not at all. But we owe what is now happening to us to draw attention to what this government is doing during the epidemic and to what people are doing. And that's what we're doing. We're warning you. At the conclusion of this meeting, recommendations were made to the Government, and these recommendations were rejected by the Home Affairs Committee with the assistance of coalition partners, of course. If you cared and were serious about what you were saying, such recommendations would also be supported because they do not speak of anything other than that the government should stop such acts during the epidemic itself. And, Your Honor, you really see me, I'm relatively young and I think of the country as my future and I really care what happens in our country. [[…]] What will happen in our country when the epidemic is over, when, I don't know, the end of the economic crisis, what will happen when this government is perhaps gone when this sweeping is over? I'm really worried, because you're really putting everything down, and you're not really letting go of any maneuvering space. And it will be you who, with any possible future left-handed government, will advertise what's going on, what's going on. But this, as Marjan Sarec, whom you like to mention today, will not be a frame, but will be a return to some normality, will be a return at a time when some independent institutions and some independence and some political non-interference still apply. I just want to mention a few things that I think are crucial. The meeting may have gone a little too far to the police and NPU today, but there are many other extremely controversial personnel exchanges. And allow me to touch two more in particular. The first is the exchange at the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. Before the SDS came out, it was obvious that this was always happening. That's not true. This change in Surs is the first in the history of independent Slovenia, and it has also been pointed out by the European Commission, with respect, i.e. key people in the European Union, that such recruitment is totally inappropriate and highly controversial. This is precisely the exchange at the top of Surs, where the government prematurely dismissed Director Bojan Nastav, who had also served in the UN in the field of statistics, of course, at the letter meeting, which is the mode of operation of this government. And the news of this came, in fact, quite unexpectedly, and he did not really know that he had been resolved until he read it from the media. The government here refers to the discharge of officials in the first year, but, with respect, Surs is a completely specific body, it is governed by another law and legal opinions are very contradictory about this. Last but not least, because of this exchange, the statistical world has also given a constitutional assessment of such a resolution and, of course, we will see here how this will unfold. Indeed, Surs, under the State Statistics Act, is a completely independent government body, also under the European Statistics Code of Conduct, and we know how much data Surs has on what he views. In fact, this information is really almost all the more to which Owl has the right to access. It seems to me that it is then that someone withdraws because he said that he would not do certain things because they are illegal and that the government should not interfere with them, at least unhygienic. This government obviously can also take care of historical events, which is also the fact that Furs has, that is, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, for the first time in history, the director who comes from a series of ruling policies, i.e. from the party SDS. The government also dismissed or appointed former director Peter Jenk at a written meeting, which took place during a strategic forum in Bled, without any discussion. In the background of all of this, there is also a disputed deal with Geneplanet fans, which we have discussed several times in this room, since Furs is also being investigated for this purchase. And because Jenko didn't want to stop, he had to leave. This is what we're telling you all the time, and you don't want to understand – that it's not really about human rights exchanges as well as those under the government's primary jurisdiction. It is about what kind of people are being set up on these positions, people who also have no professional competence and who are explicitly party-defined, places that also have an impact on certain investigations against the ruling policy or clients. This is what is primarily unhygienic, and this is what is causing many doubts both in us and in people, what is behind and what is being achieved by this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Member Marijan Pojbič has the floor and will be given the floor by Ambassador Vojko Starović. Hey, buddy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u146	Dear Mr. Vice President! I really don't know if a man would cry here or even discuss it. I really don't know. That's amazing what we're listening to today. Even from Nick, from everyone else, including Mr. Jew. We have 100, almost 160,000 public and state employees. Today we are talking about who replaced someone in the past, i.e. in some 10, some 100, none of us sitting here asked who has an absolute majority in the state and public administration that citizens and citizens have to pay, those who do what is right, the real sector. No one has talked about this, and this is a fundamental and crucial question. Mr jedan, whom I appreciate, said, among other things, that this government should be dealing only with this epidemic at that time. How can this government deal with this epidemic if opposition parties have joined an arch and do everything to overthrow this government, so that this government cannot do what is its primary task, the primary task in these circumstances, in addition to the rest of the system that needs to work? The state must function despite the epidemic in order to do this work. And it is these structures, which have come together, that these opposition parties, who would have, in other words, slaughtered themselves for cakes that would never have cooperated and therefore collapsed, are now trying to stand up to those who are trying and doing everything in these difficult circumstances to bring this ship to its final destination, which means protecting the health of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. This is absolutely incredible and rude. And at that time, those who should take the greatest responsibility with the coalition to do so today are calling a meeting on a few replacements! There is not one government that could take responsibility for running the country, but it has no connection, left, right, central, any, unless of course, it consists of a team that it believes in and trusts in. I am the first one who, ever since I've been in Parliament, I have advocated that the government must put around itself competent, responsible people so that they, together with the government and the coalition, can carry out the goals and promises that have been made in the elections. Not manipulation, deception and lies. And this government does nothing else. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today to talk about the minister, the secretary, is almost insane. Do you know who decides in this society and in this country between 160,000 civil servants? Third grade, fourth grade, fifth grade. But there are some 10 or 50,000 people who have — what card? What I.D.? And who's been recruiting them for 25 years from 30?Oh, my God! Who?Oh, my God! Dear colleagues and colleagues, and now we'd be fighting about the backdrop of the shadow. Don't be embarrassed, don't be ashamed! This is extremely irresponsible in these circumstances! To allow yourself to call such a session! One of the conscripts — What Did He Say Today? That this meeting was convened before it was said that the epidemic or the government had adopted this decree. One who proposes can always withdraw a reference! He's always been allowed to do that. And what did you do? You abuse everything that is possible in this world, and in Slovenia, as well as throughout Europe, in order to manage manipulation, to ensure that this government falls. But I assure you, our citizens and citizens, Slovenians and Slovenians, believe me, that they know what is right and what is wrong. They won't fall for it again. They won't fall for it again. Nevertheless, I am not going to talk about the regime media now, because this is the wrong deadline, but I will talk about ideological media. [[…]] Along with this structure that you've connected yourself to, I don't know what, you won't be able to convince yourself with lies, deceptions, discredits, and I won't say what else – if you remember Ivan Kramberger – with liquidations to keep power. This is extremely depraved, untasteful, and unacceptable. We live in a democratic country, all of whom have been elected, we talk about democracy, we are aware and must work for the democratisation and development of the democracy of this country. I believe and hope that in this House, regardless of the political colour, we are sitting here, the one we are dealing with with the democratic development of this country, not the reverse story, the return to where we used to be. Believe me, most Slovenian people would never have decided for a single country if it were all about and even where we were, in some connection. But I don't want to talk about it, I don't want to discuss it, I just want to point out that we are living in a democratic Slovenia, where all of us sitting together in this Parliament have to worry about helping people, helping those who can't survive, or living through a lot of trouble every month, with those who need medical help, with those who fight every day for whether or not the company will survive, and so on. That's what this government has done, everything. The sixth anti-Korona law comes shortly. We will help as much as possible so that this country will remain. And you're trying to use this kind of nonsense to manipulate and harass this government, to waste time, and this coalition with such debates, with such stories of some 100 or some 50 replacements, and in fact we have at the end of 160 thousand state and public servants, who are 95% of the members, we know who are ideologically oriented structures in this society! But in the Slovenian Democratic Party, in this coalition we have never denied it. That's the situation. 25 years of rule of 30 in a single country and I don't know how much basis it is – you just took advantage of it. Do you know what democracy is all about? Now I'm going to make it very simple for you: to replace the government here and there. You know why? To break ties, those that are harmful to most citizens and citizens. If you are 10 mandates or I don't know how many, I'm talking about the executive branch of power, the judicial branch of power, and anyone else, it's harmful because connections are made that don't let anyone in. And then 20% of the people inside one medium hold in power the other 80 who have to work for them to work hard. And nothing happens. They have no right, no chance, no influence, anything they do, they're against the state, they're against it! Thank God that the Slovenian people understand democracy in the right way and then vote in elections for someone who is the majority winner in the elections. In recent elections this was the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian Democratic Party is the only legitimate party to be able to form this government. Legitimate only. All those who have pushed to the extreme limit and who are now working a bow, forgive the expression, apologize for that expression, must clothe John Janša and that party who has received more than three or four parties together. And that they should not go into coalition – is this anything other than an ideological struggle? You tell me. Is this anything other than an ideological battle?Oh, my God! Even though people have decided that this party is the one they trust and believe that the government is capable of leading the best, the best, then someone tries to challenge it in a way that is in a different way that I have listened to today! He's really down. Believe me, sometimes when I've been like this for so long I've listened to the radio burns, but with what we have, the receiver in the office, which I've been here for a while, and I have nothing to do with people who have a different opinion, with customers who have a different opinion, no problem. [[…]] However, under the circumstances when you claim and say that it is necessary to work to solve this problem that we now have, and on the other hand, you maximize it, and every day or every other day you paint before the whole news story, and there you say how to bring down the government of Janez Janša — then, my dear friends, something is not right, something is wrong! And don't look at me, then please don't say one here, but you're doing another outside! [[…]] This coalition – thank God it has been created – knows what it wants, has clear goals and has followed the right path and is doing what is needed for people. It helps people. I don't say, I say again that she has done her best, but I know what she does — she does what people want, they need, and she does what she does to help people, whether someone is on the left, right or any other option. And that's essential. This is essential and important. If we're talking about human resources. So fat, look, look how fat these leaves are. [[shows the object]] which the Sharqsa government has made. A year and a half. And no one read that to her! We didn't see anything in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We said, okay, the government has decided, it does, it does. We've been alerting things, but look, we haven't called any meetings of the National Assembly on this subject when things were completely different than they are now, and the situation is completely different than it is now. Assembling political points at the expense of these few swaps, which have virtually nothing in common with the functioning of state policy or very little, believe me, will not go hand in hand with any, no political option and will bring no benefit to any of them. Apart from the fact that this coalition and this government have yet to deal with it, instead of dealing with what Mr. Židan has said today – that we are primarily dealing with an epidemic. That's my conclusion. I'd have a lot more to say, but I'm closing up.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Replica, mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u148	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's no big deal, Mr Pojbich, I won't say, just a little please listen to me, Mr Pojbich, because I'm replicating you. You said that there are 170 000 people in the public sector or the public sector and 95% of the people who are somehow our members or something like that, and you pointed to us. One of them has to pick up. You know what's most interesting? That when I became Minister in May 2010, they just told me something like that. They said, "Yes, because there are right-wing, 95%, some of them Smrkolj banished, some of them Osterc." Actually, it's not like that. Especially are people, with their concerns, with their desires, with their desire to do good, the desire for people to understand them, and to say, the Slovenian officialship you are such, such or such, is wrong. What I want is for the Slovenian officialship to be more respected, and sometimes the policy will be able to tell them more clearly what it expects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u149	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Member Vojko Starović has the floor and will be discussed by Lidija Ivanuš. Mr. Starovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, chairman. The second wave of the crown is at its peak. The numbers show that the situation is severe, and the world is pointing to America and the disaster there with more than 80,000 patients a day. But in order to compare ourselves with us, with our situation, they would have to be sick for over 400,000. Five times more than actually. So it's really bad with us. Even after today's debate, the current government does not want to take responsibility for the situation and answer for it at any time. We believe in our ability and competence to defeat the crown, but it's everyone else's fault, the opposition, the media, the people. Everything is also seen through someone — I don't know where they find it — a deep country that does everything to harm this good government. I am the only one who sees problems elsewhere — in the way they govern. Things have happened simply because of measures taken or measures not taken under this government. One of the reasons for this is that the government has a lot of commitment to other goals that are not so satisfying, and the fact that it quickly canceled the epidemic has been celebrated with the passing of foreign military planes, and the free holidays where people have relaxed, these were also people, using these volunteers, have brought their own. I do not say at all that the Government has done some things wrong, but others have not done well, nor have they cooperated with the opposition, nor have they accepted proposals. But that's the reality. When we look at this government of its president, it's the same thing as being accused of everything else, as if the football coach accused the opposite team, the audience, the commentators, the journalists of playing poorly and losing the games. It's not working. In the opposition, we are convinced that in this time of crisis it is wrong to carry out large-scale exchanges, change teams, change teams. I can't imagine running an organization where I should replace the entire team at once. I can't imagine because I'd lose. Every exchange, every exchange of organization runs in empty time. Teams have been building over the years and decades to get you to good teams before you've been raised and then they're effective. My colleague Horvath also indicated something in this direction, but believe me, my experience shows me that without it, I can't do it. But if while we're changing teams, we're changing some more organizational structures, just like with these agencies, the one, the third, then the entropy is here. Years go by before things actually come to life. I repeat. The figures clearly show that the government failed in this second step. We can't get through. One of the reasons is certainly the lack of a consensus search with the opposition and with the people and the rush – I do not know why such a rush was needed – with these changes. Several times, the government had to change in certain specific positions, even in situations related to the persecution of the epidemic. And there's just one more thing. In the end, I was disturbed by this orientation of these 160,000 employees. This includes all the soldiers, this army, all the health personnel, all the teaching staff, the education. This official is less than 30,000, so we won't operate on numbers that don't exist. It is a shame for me, therefore, that Parliament enjoys so little popularity among people and so much interference as it is today – forgive me, rather than having a constructive debate – even rude and insultingly, it certainly does not give us a reputation for people. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Lydia Ivanus has the word, and Dr. Franz Ducky. Ma'am, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u152	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! How many of your staff were there, and where all of your staff were staffed, and I will not even mention the positions you set up for certain persons and how many employees you made mobile in your famous year and a half. It must be said, however, that since then no one has referred to this issue since the opposition, because it is quite logical that every government has the right to change personnel if the existing staff is not effective. If we take a look at what happened to Mr. Gallet, who was left behind by the government in the workplace he was placed on your side, and what happened. You deliberately wanted to sabotage and tarnish the government's work in the most critical situation of life to protect people. At that moment of crisis, we encountered empty warehouses and false convictions. I can't say any more here than you don't know what you'd do to get rid of the government, but you look pathetic. I think it is normal for every citizen not to keep an employer who is doing him harm, who is not doing well, and where he is doing business. It is also logical in this service that those who work against people who act in the sense of concealing or concealing certain documents, records, judgments or papers, if you wish, do not belong to such a job. This government has decided to do much for Slovenia, so in the context of the people set up by you, Mr Sarec and others, it cannot do so. I received one flyer last week. A flyer calling for protests at this time, and it states, quote: “Let us be aware that any violence is unacceptable. All we need is to step together and all of us say in one voice that the matter is over, then we start to regulate things differently and wisely, because the covid-19 is the top of an icy mountain 30 years of government of corrupt politicians and criminals." Then, somewhere else, they call on the government to resign and all government officials and so on. First, I would say, first of all, inappropriately, it is irresponsible to call such meetings, second of all, this game of certain persons who are desperate to urge people to protest against this government 30 years ago is really funny. I think every citizen and citizen knows where the dog is praying. This meeting is totally meaningless and just shows what the left governments have been doing for the last 25 years. It appears to be fear and distress for you who are sitting in opposition today. Why isn't the court working? Why are there waiting types in health care, why overpaid medical material? Why are entrepreneurs fleeing our country, and why doctors? Why is it destroying entrepreneurs instead of elevating them? Why do we have dozens of NGOs blocking the work that hinders development and important projects in Slovenia and for Slovenian citizens, and we all pay them? Why are little farmers dying out? Why do young people who are educated flee the country? Whoever's been recruiting in the last decades to have this kind of chaos everywhere is clear. Why are we paying for superstandard accommodation for illegal migrants and after all, are we still receiving from the Left Play? Our 300-euro pensioners cannot afford a menu like that of illegal migrants in these institutions. This is unacceptable in my opinion, because we always listen to the Left and the opposition parties, how many our citizens and citizens live on the brink of survival and we cannot possibly provide them with the standard that illegal migrants in our country enjoy. Does all this seem normal to you? Do you find it fair and fair that foreign people in our country live better and better than ours? This is all work and recruitment in 25 years from 30 years of operation of left governments in Slovenia. I am sure that Slovenia understands that I am understood by Slovenians and Slovenians, and I am sure that they fully agree with me. This government must do what is necessary to establish and form this disintegrating society in order to form Slovenia and make it fair, for all to be equal. Everything listed is the work of you all and your staffing, all the problems that kill people who make people desperate are your work that has been set up for the political electorate and elite. Why is the house taken away from the family for 120 euros, and why is Mr Jankovic and his sons registered for tens of millions? Dear ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you can no longer move garbage with your pre-flighter, and do not sweep ours because it is intended for every Slovenian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I'm asking for peace. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky, prepare to send the Magi. Dušan Verbich. Dr. Duck, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that. I hope, President, that you will not end up commenting on me, because today, until now, the vast majority are talking about everything that is alive, just not about staffing. My colleague and I basically very much agree that in 30 years we had really too many left governments, but not left-wing, left-handed ones in the way that people have stepped in too many shoes. If we are seriously discussing human resources, on the one hand we have the so-called political staffing that always happens, on the other hand we have the establishment of quality public administrations and public administrations, in short, quality bureaucracy. For both of us, we need something called the length of the bench in collective sports, you know. Why was Maribor so good and still in Slovenian football? Because he's got a long bench because he's raising a frame, because he's got some top-notch players in every position. This is a problem of Slovenian politics. I admit, I was already on Saturday fine and I went to bake some pastries and so on because I knew what today's session would be like: mainly Charcz's team versus the SDS team in a way that two old spouses should have been divorced 15 years ago, and then who's more guilty. We already have a so-called instant party from Virant. You know, for some quality positions it's being raised, there are schools for quality positions. I could not sleep all night when I was more unhappy because of Franz Bogovich. At first, my sister-in-law came to me because you weren't going to be elected, and then I was lucky. Madonna, I said, for more than 2 million people I will decide – and I am a science-mathematic technique, the direction of applied mathematics after basic education – I will decide on billions. Here, after a good six years, I can honestly say that the vast majority of Members and Members of Parliament, including the executive branch, have never taken a day to read our Constitution seriously, and I apologize to the few exceptions. In this way, as it is said, perhaps the best third we would need in both politics and in public and public administration will never do so. You know, when I talk to people that I might like to see in politics, even people with whom we don't share ideology, if they paraphrased the esteemed Member of Pojbič, they usually say to me, "Well, what I need to do is watch what they do to you." Many also openly say that these are worse pennies than they have and so on. Somehow it is easy to chat through public and state administration – this is basically some infrastructure real sector that we all need. And it seems to me that more of the yellow-blue children are employed through this apparatus than any other child or will ever be any of my children, because they'll be found somewhere else. Then I often don't see some basic logic here in seven years. After what Member Pojbič said, then Demos would not be legitimate, because he did not win the elections at the time, then that Janša government, when he had – what was it? – Jankovic one more term, wouldn't be legitimate. Let's think about it before we open our mouths. You know, in some societies that take themselves seriously, it's not just like Dejan used to say when he was a minister, but they're in some key, professional positions, even if they're supposed to be human resources political, people out there for about a dozen years. It seems to me that I have already spoken in this National Assembly, Agent 007 recently died, the gentleman by whom the M character, which has been played by the lady recently, was the head of the English MI6, if I recall correctly, under the six Presidents of the Government plus under Thatcherico, under seven. You have a book, his nephew wrote it, Google it and read it. I didn't want to discuss ideology and ideological media. My friend Pojbič wanted to study journalism, but he could not because of material matters, according to his presentation on the SDS website. Mr. Secretary, you were the director of New24. 31st month: "Slovenian media and opposition are responsible for domestic terrorism." I sent you a question today. What is my fault for domestic terrorism? What is domestic terrorism? And you have to process me properly if I'm guilty of domestic terrorism, but if not, it seems to me that the media inspectorate has to respond to the visas of these media. This weekend I started reading a beautiful book, Slavko Goldstein: 1941: the year that is coming back; the year that is coming back. Slavko Goldstein, a famous Croatian intellectual, editor, representative of the Jewish community, born in me near Karlovac, describes in 1941. And yesterday, when I read this, you know, I read, there was a government in Croatia that claimed, and we are adopting the best laws and we are better off, no one has accepted what we accept, then their Minister of Culture Dr. Budak wrote very similarly as certain Members, European and here in the National Assembly, but as Minister of this Government: we will determine what culture is and which culture is close to the culture and what is good for the people. And of course, there were also, under the headings, “certain media”, which published such fertilizers. I am sorry, but yesterday I began to think that this reminds me a little too much about 2020 in Slovenia. Mr. Secretary, you said you were an anti-fascist. I highly recommend this book to everyone when next time you wish to decide whether Thompson or not is allowed to perform or not in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. We don't really talk about why someone changes, when they change it, how they change it, what changes it, what its competences are. This morning, when I was driving, I was listening to Val 202 and they were choosing the person of the week, and a few people said, I remembered a lady, and I quote, "This government of ours is becoming more and more primitive." End of quote. This is some lady who's been in some years, and I'm the kid's Pojbich for her, who's been through a lot. There was a speech, one of the candidates was Mr. Celik, 10 years old director of the architecture museum at Fužinah. Maybe it bothers someone because there's a rhyme of rhyme near Gold there, but these are some of these stories. These are some of these stories, and we have some bipolarity, I don't hope to claim interference, but please, when we read – what? We're not in a war state. We have an epidemic. The countries that are good at dealing with this epidemic are countries that come from a culture of trust, a culture of respect, a culture of expertise. Perhaps it is not a coincidence that this government has escaped the epidemic somehow, that a self-inflicted person in me loves the Czech Republic, after all, the Ducks from there, and in some certain countries. We don't have a war, and we do — what? Some correspondence sessions, some extraordinary meetings tonight. Most people are not on Twitter for such or other reasons, we have public RTV. Instead of changing someone now — and I'm not an agent of such or other leadership here — if we need anything, we need some appropriate communication tools. If some serious polls show that some people who want to trade this story in communication do not trust it, it is likely that such people need to change because it is a matter of trust. If I walk on Maribor and people drag me there: hear Franjo, now we must have masks or not masks, or when masks yes, when masks don't every day read this, but I'm already kind of lost if Jelko says yes, and he went then there to laufat, and then he saw the mask put down and someone can't – what? [[…]] – croissants eat, but at the same time, Zdravc will cringe that urban tourism will have to be saved. Basic logic. We're probably getting caught here, Mr. Secretary. I believe you'd be great if I needed you, let's say you worked for a sock this weekend, but as a minister, you're a little too arrogant, to put it mildly. And after six years, there's something else I hope to say here. This session belongs to one of the meetings that I personally think we do not deserve a bear. But, you know, on the one hand, talk, and we're open to different opinions up and down -- those first antikron packages, because we didn't intend them ourselves. A whole series of civil society actors, including the singing real sector, said: you forgot about it, you forgot about it, you forgot about it. At that time, I don't know, Dr. Gorenak was playing a part or not with the National Assembly, and I even complimented him. Nothing went through. You know, the key problem when I listen here is: you have a problem with parliamentary democracy! For you, then, the opposition is the ornament which, basically, I think is a very loving architect, born in Brno, would prefer to be abolished. If so, then gather the constitutional majority and cut us off. That's how it comes out of what you're saying. And the epidemic is no reason to say, "We have an epidemic," and now the end of the world. The epidemic means more opinions, no less opinions, and Parliament is a place of public use of the mind. The one who cares about what you're doing because of the epidemic – perhaps if a policy were to listen to a little more diverse expertise, this epidemic wouldn't escape us like it did. I hope that some investigator will find out someday or some doctorate because we have so many of these parliamentary investigators that I don't know how we're going to work them out. We're not gonna mess them up. And I've had these figs a little too many after six years. Even if we are talking about staffing – after all, all governments, even when Janša was in opposition, were very well staffed with you. If I remember that great government of Cerara, you're very well aware of who's going to stay at the post office, how the fiscal world is going to be made, who's going to come into the constitution, who's going to do the casinos there. If you don't have a memory – now I'd insult the goldfish if I mentioned it – I do. The runners have big heads. So that some pre-priests and sweeps, a respected colleague who is not in there, could be discussed in a number of ways. But you don't have to answer me today, but I sent a written question about what I am — what? [[…]] – guilty of domestic terrorism and what it is. If you can't give me an argument, but this is about the lawsuit, definitely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Minister Aleš Hojs asked for the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Duck, I'll say it first. If you get the feeling that I'm arrogant, I'm sorry, I never wanted to be arrogant to anyone. What you have now asked – if I understand correctly, you have sent to the Minister of the Interior a question relating to Novo24TV. I don't understand that. You must probably send this question to the Minister for Culture or to the Cultural Inspectorate and so on. You know, it's like asking me [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Okay, but you know, it's like if you asked me why Jankovic builds channel C0 across the area of first-class water protection because I was accidentally 13 years in the service at the public company Voivodship - Channelization. I mean, that's a little bit of an aboriginal, but if I say so badly. As far as the mask's concerned. I'll give you absolutely right here. Absolutely right. If it really happened that the Inspectorate engulfed someone who ate croissants, it's true, I'd say, crazy. I think that the vast majority of things shouldn't have to be written down in decrees if everyone, together, were to talk about common sense. You know, even worse than this inspector, it seemed to me that a doctor could come, be careful, a doctor with a degree in medical school on one of the TVs and there explains that the decree does not say whether she can go to Triglav alone and whether or not she has to use a mask. I mean, I'm sorry, I think it's a matter for the Medical Board to ask her a little bit about her license. That, look, that's amazing. As far as what you said was concerned, I very much liked your story about the length of the bench. I've played football myself for 10 years, so I know this thing very well. Do you know what you're doing, Mr. Duck? You've been doing this for the last three months. He said that – I did not invent this – one of the football strategies, but it is this: it is better to sit on the bench with me than to play for the opponent. And that's what you've been doing for three months now. You've been doing this for three months, someone from SMC, someone from Desus, maybe somewhere else, will be sitting on our bench, so he won't play for you. I hear you're even, I'd say, inviting them with a good payday. Maybe we could make more money on your bench than they make on the winning team. And one more thing, Mr Trcek, and this one is also very important. I don't want to lecture you, but I think it's right that the next time you say that again, because we're entering the 30th anniversary of our independence – look, Demos won the elections in 1990. If Demos didn't win these elections, we wouldn't have a separate Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia here today. True, he did not win the social political assembly, but he had a vast majority in the congregation, a very small majority, a minority, a very small minority in the congregation of the united work, but he had a majority in the entire congregation of 240 emissaries or then congregation members. So the next time you say that Demos didn't win in 1990, correct yourself. Demos won in 1990.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Replica, Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u158	Comrade Hoys, I agree that this is an abomination, but you are the minister in charge of domestic terrorism, so I asked you this question. About Demos. I used to vote for Demos, and then I was disappointed in him. You shouldn't have said that. As for the length of the bench. I'm always here if you need my brains, but I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I propose that we proceed with the debate. The word has magic. Dušan Verbič, after which he will receive the word of Boštjan Koražija. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. Even on my good side tonight all present! However, I must first say, in listening to today's debate, that virtually most of the debaters have deviated from the title or call of today's extraordinary meeting, which says only and only: recruitment to state institutions and economic societies. I am aware that, as a result, there are many things, but what I have missed is that at least so far no one has touched the substance of the debate, as far as the reference is concerned, and this is section 83 of the Civil Servants Act, paragraph 5. I think it is time, although it is too late to deal with what this fifth paragraph says, and I quote: "The official or body responsible for the appointment may, on the proposal of the appointment officer, within one year of the appointment, dismiss the Director-General in the Ministry, the Chief of the Government Service, the Secretary-General in the Ministry, the Head of the Authority in the Ministry, the Head of the Administrative Unit and the Director of the Municipal Administration or the Registrar of the municipality, irrespective of the reason set out in the second paragraph of this Article. The discharge under this paragraph shall be possible within one year of the appointment of an official.’ I must admit that somehow I was happy, at least from the beginning, to listen to my predecessor, my previous interlocutor, because I expected that we would focus very much on what really concerns this content. But it is well known that the political debate in this National Assembly goes on every occasion to some extent. And if we are as democratic as we are, I agree that it is a little wider. But in this case, I will also touch on some matters, which are also directly related to this, I am talking about this article of the Civil Servants Act. Is it possible for the government to recruit and employ its client colleagues or sympathizers in the public sector in a derogation that can only carry out ongoing business? Why? I'm sure it's because a lot of people wouldn't agree, if I were to say harshly, to the Employment Service. And here is my key question: where is what has been said many times in the debates, especially the opposition, about the expertise and competence of these so-called labour market jobs? The fact is, as far as this is concerned, it is present all the years, no matter what political party is in power, and I am on my own in the position that this should not happen. And because I am sometimes self-critical – this has also happened in the period of the end of 2018. As far as today's debate is concerned, all I have to say is that, however this has been heard, on both sides or on all sides, the debate has been held with regard to political staffing mainly in the direction of bilateral proof of the human resources decisions of any government. Frankly, I see nothing wrong in this debate today. Above all — Why? Because I am interpreting today's debate as an opportunity for the time to perform in the Republic of Slovenia – and with a foreigner – meritocracy. I will not explain the meaning of the word because I think that what is present and is also known among the members of this national assembly. It is clear that this red thread is a political recruitment throughout this debate, as well as in this debate. The fact is that political recruitment, when I speak of the Republic of Slovenia, is present, and I hope also from this place to say that it is present throughout the period since the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of who was on the executive branch of power at the time. The fact is that all parties who manage to come to the government coalition elections simply do so after they have been appointed by the ministries. The question is, who doesn't? Those political parties that do not have, if I may call it, a satisfactory pool in their own party or enough of their own sympathizers. Truth be told, it's reality. The fact is, once again, political personnel were present and are also present today. In this case, it is very difficult to understand that there are so many words and so many objections, at least by the proponents, and I will also allow myself here to use the expression that this is the so-called novial relationship of all those political parties or parliamentary groups that have signed, except the Left, with regard to this political recruitment, because they have been in governments and have also served on this institution. If I compare today's debate with the debate on the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, I can say with regard to the content that there is nothing new on the part of the proponents, the focus of the debate as has been mentioned many times, the National Investigation Office, Minister Aleš Hojs, I had the feeling that he was involved in re-interpelling. And I will not speak of any form or form of appeal by the current coalition or the President of the Government to withdraw in one way or another. You know, I have to admit that I have been a little distracted, and it is also worth saying that the statements made by some Members, especially by LMŠ, were somehow in this context: the government of Marjan Šarc has been doing well. And here's my key question, and it's not the first time that I've highlighted this from this town: if it worked well, why did the retreat happen? How can one say that the government has done well if a person has information that simply at a certain time, at least in the last part, there were no communications at all in the executive branch, is it between ministers? Why did the key ministers for each government resign, says the Minister of Finance, Health, Counsellor for the Prime Minister of the Government for the Economy? And to the surprise of all, I must also acknowledge myself as a coalition Member, the President of the Government resigns. And here's the epilogue: if someone's doing good, why's he stepping down? So understand the logic. If I still touch on the material, because I want to focus more on the essence of today's agenda. In this paper is an indication of the current coalition as regards staffing, in particular by indicating the names proposed. My point, which I also express in public, is whether it is self-determination of new names that will be in certain state-owned companies — will these persons be doing worse than those who have been named in some way by the previous coalition? What guarantee is there that now the newly appointed might not be able to manage even better if I am specific, in this case state property or in the management bodies, are the supervisory councils or perhaps even the administrations? I am very much in the position — and all the years of my work experience I have been very fond of change — that changes are words and write a movement of development. They're just wanted every once in a while. Usually, if these changes are with people, if I may say so, the real people who know things and also want improvements. And at the final stage, even if they were called by politics, what would be very wrong here if I could call it that? Maybe from a political point of view because it's not ours because it's from another political option, in which case it's from a coalition. I still have to touch on what's going on with the personnel, which has been reported many times today to Minister Hoys. We all know, we are aware, but in the political debate, a lot of people do not want to admit it. The fact is, the personnel have to be professional. Who's the judge of this human resources expertise? Ambassadors, politicians? I don't think that's appropriate, and we know, no matter what coalition it is and which government it is, there is a human resources commission that proposes a list of relevant so-called declared personnel to the Minister, the District Minister, and it has words and writes a discretionary right of choice. Of course, under this discretion, every minister is aware that, in addition to expertise, one of the key elements is the loyalty of the government and the ability to realize the content of the coalition contract of that coalition. I cannot pass a few words with regard to the proposals for non-constitutional provisions and the like. The Constitutional Court, very marginally said today or rarely, has already made this very clear in 2005 and I cannot help but say it again from this very place. What did it say or decide? The Institute for the Resolution of the highest officials without any ground of guilt within a one-year period is the Institute of Sui generis of nature, established and designed solely to ensure that each time the authorities have a certain impact on the staffing of the highest positions. If I go any further in this context. What did the Constitutional Court also record? The arrangements whereby, at the time of the appearance of the new government or of the new minister, the highest management officials are set to be released from the position without any ground of guilt are not, in itself, inconsistent with the second paragraph of Article 120 of the Constitution. However, it is not a matter of the Constitutional Court to assess where the border is between those officials who are still in the circle of so-called political officials and those who no longer belong to it. I simply had to state this mainly because it is very clear that the so-called reference to non-constitutional decisions by the applicants simply does not hold and is misleading. Not only are we being misled by Members, especially by the public. The Constitutional Court, to the extent that it was clear, and I hope that I was as understanding as possible, expressed in its legal expression that this is simply pure political recruitment, permitted, of any government or of the executive branch of government. In other words, the President of the Government or the Minister shall have free time to decide whether to retain or replace a designated official. This fact, I also hope to say from this city, is known to all the parliamentary groups and also to the political parties present in the National Assembly. Today's, let's say, a proposal for a reference – and also from the debate itself – can be interpreted – to explain and allow myself to explain their position and the debate in a slightly different direction. This direction leads me to the next one. That this is an action against the current coalition, not because of the country's poor leadership by this coalition, but because the opposition is also seeking to regain power and employ its client staff through such an approach to political recruitment and damage to the state. Legitimate, permissible, and this is also a matter of opposition. I just don't have any reservations here. With regard to the political recruitment of top officials, directors. The fact is that so-called political staffing varies from country to country. The fact is that this is a tradition of administration, as it were said, from a particular country. What I would very much like is that public servants in the Republic of Slovenia should in fact be professional, apolitical, career-oriented, professional in a professional system capable of providing quality services, and in particular that it is not basically a key and essential element of political belonging to a party, namely that coalition or any political option in power. That is why I will conclude my debate in this part, as I have somehow begun in the beginning, that I am literally explaining today's debate, that perhaps it was necessary for the Republic of Slovenia to start with all seriousness regardless of political will, irrespective of the coalition parties who are in power or opposition, in order to face meritocracy seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u161	Thank you very much. There's been a change. First he'll get the word "Andrej Chernigoj" and then he'll get the word "Jure Ferrjan." Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u162	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We'll be there soon at nine o'clock. I have to join my predecessor, and every debate is good and needs solid and fundamental arguments. But to me, the first and only more important point of my action lately is the fight against the invisible enemy and the thinking of how I can help in this fight as an individual, and I am also thinking of how we will better come out of this fight and how the state will best win against this enemy. In this place, I would like to congratulate all of you who are giving yourselves up to defeat an invisible enemy, and give yourself up to help others. I thought of such a Latin expression, which kind of reflects this debate today: ad Augusta per angusta, the glory comes along a thorny path, is a purely literal translation. I somehow understand today's debate of the opposition, which is trying, but I do not think that this debate is leading in the right direction. This debate is in the final stage of the moose moose for everyone in this house, in this beautiful temple of democracy. I would very much like to talk, I have listened carefully all nine hours today, and I must conclude that this debate was without respect for the moment, and I expected more expertise and valid reasons. However, I also have to agree here, I see this debate probably more than a repetition of the Minister's interpretation than anything else. Here I must say that my fellow opposition is very angry and I am very disappointed that we will always lead this debate in this direction, which does not produce positive results. As far as this debate is concerned. Today, for nine hours now, I believe we will talk for another hour, we will talk for 10 hours, and the opposition has failed to bring its conclusions to this debate. I must say that we will have 10 hours to discuss and we will not be able to vote on the conclusions in the end. What serious debate has no conclusions? It saddens me very much, and I must say that I am surprised to say that I will find it very difficult to explain at home what we talked about today. Because, unfortunately, this debate does not have any red thread. A lot of accusations and the most crucial: she'll have no conclusions. We are interested in this in New Slovenia, we are interested in the results, and I must say that the ministers of Nova Slovenije are doing what we have witnessed in recent weeks and months. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Member Jura Ferrjan has the floor and will be discussed by Ambassador Jože Lenart. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u164	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. To those of you who persist in this hall, and to those who follow us, a good evening! In a few minutes, we will enter the ninth hour of today's debate, and we have also heard many things that are not on the agenda, for example, on the left hand side, by our fellow Member, Mr Cigler, we have heard that the children are hungry again, now that the government of Janša is in power. We have also heard a lot about what is happening in the country today in the field of health, which, of course, I can also understand in the light of the situation that Slovenia is facing, and we have heard a lot of third and fourth. With regard to today's topic, respected and respected, human resources exchanges are an integral part of the operation of each government and every government coalition. In December 2018, on a public national television or MMC web portal, the President of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarec, said, quote: "If you don't have the right people in the right places, you will have a hard time working." End of quote. Who thinks who the right people are in the right places? I would rather use the word “capable people, competent” instead of “right cities” instead of “key leading, deciding cities”. The one who is in power will do the judging. Those who have the majority in this temple of democracy, those who do the judging, those who frame, of course, also take political responsibility. And Marjan Sarec was in charge. The government coalition of Marjan Sarca has been deployed, 252 exchanges have been made. Of course, you can read more about this on web portals, I did not print this text, but for some feeling, in this article it is more than 12,000 words and more than 81,000 characters. However, I have decided to devote a few words to this article in my debate. In particular, I will point out five cases of recruitment, which were not, or were not, so much written about, media exposure. I will also name only an individual or an individual, because my purpose in this debate is not to point out those who have been suspended and set up, but to the fact that the Sharcas government, as in fact all governments so far, has been in a number of positions. In December 2018, the Government of Marjan Šarc replaced Mr Igor with Mrs Metko as Director-General of the Department of Creativity at the Ministry of Culture. Mr Andrej replaced Mr Gorazd in January 2019 as Deputy Governor of the Republic of Slovenia at the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Also in January 2019, the government dismissed Mr Zoran and appointed Mrs Karla as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Regional Development and Rural Development. In January 2019, the Government of Marjan Šarc dismissed Mr Yuri and appointed Mr Mitja as Director-General of the Labour Market and Employment Directorate at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. And the fifth case, which I will highlight, in June 2019, the government decided to call off Mr Bor and appoint Mr Mitja as a member of the Sports Lottery Supervisory Board. At this point, I will touch on one of the past, the previous discussions in the last good eight hours, when a fellow Member from the List of Marjan Sarc, Mr Rudi Medved, former Minister in the Sharchev government, addressed the question to the Minister and the current government, what contributed to the prosperity of our country. He said something like that. Of course, he is probably talking about the changes that have been mentioned in the extraordinary reference to today’s session. I am sure, or I will say so, that the thought came to me when I listened to my colleague Medved's discussion that, for example, when they discussed at the government at least these five changes that I had listed, the real areas where they were employed, then also their client colleague, then the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarc, fellow ministers and ministers, asked what would these changes, such as the ones that I counted, contribute to the well-being of our country, contribute to the well-being of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm not going to go into the expertise of individual trades. I'm not even going to let myself in on whether they were made at the right time or whether they were useful, necessary. I'm not getting into this. However, these examples already say, five of them are enough to illustrate that the views of those who were previously in the government have changed dramatically in this time of year. And that indicates your duality. I quote: “Kadrov's changes are not in themselves controversial.” This is what the leader of the Marjan Šarca Group said tonight in the presentation of the position of the List of Marjan Šarc. Right, hold on. Human resources exchanges are not controversial. Why? Because it is one of the important tasks of virtually every government of the Republic of Slovenia, and all the governments have so far been staffed, the government of Borut Pahor, all the governments before it, the government of Alenka Bratušek, the government of Mir Cerar, also the government of Marjan Šarc, and, of course, the government of Janez Janša, has been staffed. Respected and respected, everyone who is politically appointed knows what that means. He knows that he has been appointed for a specific mandate and also knows that this mandate can be terminated prematurely for such or other reasons. That's the way it is. That's how it was, and that's probably how it's gonna be. It is true that we do, even in any other country, and it is true that in another country, in particular the United States, it is completely different – when the authorities are replaced there, the whole administration is replaced. There are politicians in the government, I am sure that we are also politicians in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and as a result our decisions are political decisions. I don't think it's a secret or something unusual, but it's no surprise that the shots going through the government or going through the National Assembly are political – what should they be like? Today's extraordinary meeting, which has nothing to do with the emergency situation or the Coronavirus epidemic, however, shows us a renewed attempt by the current opposition not to change anything in Slovenia. The well-respected opposition, or those who have been signed under the auspices of today's extraordinary session, truly grieves me that you are still or are redoubled.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Robert Pashovich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u166	Thank you very much, President. I don't think that the two of us -- I'm replicating the two of us, my colleague Chernigo and my colleague Ferjan -- didn't understand or sit on your ears all the time because I haven't seen enough of you in the hall. 240, you said, changing the previous government. According to the same methodology, your government has made 424 exchanges in half the time. Same methodology. And those numbers wouldn't even be thrown out if you hadn't started. Let us once again tell you clearly what has been said in the position and what has already been said in some of the debates by several of our Members: they are not disputed in their own right, whether they are regular or other justified exchanges, and if they are staffed professionally or on the basis of their abilities, and if they are placed in positions of personal maturity. But it was obvious that this government was the only one that led the hostile takeover of institutions, and that is why nodding, obedience, loyalty, service are superior to knowledge and abilities. Let's remember a little bit. Political staffing is a constant in this country, but political trading or roofing in your case is problematic and dangerous. Two MPs stepped out of the SMC, Nova Slovenija immediately received an appetite, even a reconstruction of the government with several additional resources was announced. Since this would be politically too dangerous for the coalition and this government, it is likely that this has been settled between friends with the President of the Dars administration, and we have now noticed that with the Director of the Road Safety Agency. It's so easy to explain, only if you want to add up a little bit plus one. However, I would expect Members to read the Rules of Procedure at least roughly and then find out why there will be no conclusions today – because you hit them on the committee with a roller boy, so there will be no conclusions. Otherwise, the conclusions were proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u167	Thank you very much. My friend Rudy Bear, did you want a replica? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will just complement my colleague Robert Pavšić, who actually responded very well to a fellow member from the Slovenian Democratic Party. He added this. When I talked about whether it was about the exchange of wealth, about the welfare of this country, I was talking about two specific institutions, it was about the leadership of Furs and the Statistical Office, and there I asked whether in this case it was really about concern, about prosperity or, in fact, it was about exchange for exchange because someone had resented the Lakhovnik, the other was too much of an alleged illegal purchase of protective equipment and they flew away. So it's a vendetta on the one hand, and on the other hand, we can see it as a hateful takeover of these two institutions. That is why I have been talking about prosperity, not all the 250 personnel you receive from the government of Marjan Šarc, and not about the 420 and more personnel that have been carried out so far, I repeat, so far by the government of Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would only ask you that Mr Pavšić I did not want a replica before, because the replicas on the replica are not, but I would ask you, procedurally, procedurally suggest that you just warn Mr Pavšić not to deceive him, because I was, now running the ninth hour of debate, we have a good eight hours of debate already and I was certainly at least six, seven hours in the hall, and the rest I listened to in the office. And I find it very ungrateful that I never speak in my debates about who is in the hall and who is not. We all know that we can listen to the matter on the Internet or on television or in our office, and this seems really misleading and ungrateful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u171	Okay. Comrade Ferjan, you are aware that this is not a procedural proposal that our Rules of Procedure do not provide for the rules that you have just conceived, so I suggest we move on. Jože Lenart has the floor, prepare Janez Muskrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u172	Thank you very much, President. Today we're reading: personnel tsunamis, brutal personnel. Now let's just give it: on this page we have 252 staffs over a period of 20 months, and on this page we have a good 400 staff and exchanges and a little over 300 commissions. Now you decide for yourself what the tsunami is now, which side is the tsunami on which side is the brutal recruitment. Just a few words about staffing in the field of the National Institute of Public Health. During the first week, a member of the Board of the Institute shall be replaced and the way for replacements shall be opened. The replacement of NIJZ director Nina Pirnat, Prešeren's prize winner, in the first days of the takeover of Vada would still somehow understand the need to act, people need to take into account professionally, and a working word is also needed, and perhaps the gentle female being of Nina Pirnat, according to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, would not be the most successful. Yeah, okay, for the V.D. Director, the government then appoints Dr. Ivan Ergen's seasoned epidemiologist. He has experience in the profession, he was also director of the NIJZ, as a politically tested State Secretary at the Ministry of Health in academic waters. Can we even imagine a better frame? But look at the fraction of it when the expert doubts it, Ivan Ergen said: "In my opinion, the latest drastic measures were not necessary. I can't defend them," and he's gone overnight. April 10th call, April 24th appointment of a new director. And who's replacing him? Milan Krek is a social health specialist, but he's not an epidemiologist. He is an expert in drug addiction, not only in Primorske, but also in other Slovenian provinces, Italy, Croatia, perhaps also on the black market. And why does Janez Janša's government suddenly need a drug expert to fight a covid-19? This is a good question, and this will certainly gradually be clarified if the government of John Janša Milan Krek does not resolve it first. With Milan Krek's name at the head of the NIJ, real complications begin. He is working hard, says Mr Milan Krek, again we hear the version of the head of the advisory group at the Ministry of Health Dr Bojana Beović. At the very beginning, we are still hearing Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar, but they often disagree with the opinions and actions of government spokesman Jelko Kacin. So what's the problem? Finally, this is the decision of Prime Minister Janez Janša. Now we ask ourselves how, in such a maze, where confusion, mistrust, fear, and unrest are involved, the profession works. The Ministry of Health, NIJZ, epidemiologists, how should they decide in public health institutions, if all last-minute and so-called President of the Government? All of this is still happening when we don't hear from the health department that the second wave is already here. In DSOs, factories, schools, hospitals are running out of capacity, no covedposts, no covidbolts, no covidal wards, no extra equipment to train fans, no trained staff, no organization, no ups, no even flu vaccines. It's a real problem. “Who is to blame?” asks the Government. “Yes, the opposition did not support us, the media did not warn us, they did not give proper instructions to the people.” And the planes are gone. Health care includes the CAP, a healthy farmer's mind, of course. So he says: “We hate redecorating individual covid-19 departments, remodeling room for room, correcting errors, directing and waving ventilators, and especially training, as we know and know. We call our colleagues in Ljubljana, Maribor, we look online, we monitor foreign expertise, RTV, Slovenian doctors, abroad, but what if patients covid-19 is increasingly more and more from day to day. Who's coming to help, privates, specials? They can only help in the departments for which they are trained. What about us? We're not Intensive, we've never worked with covid, we're urologists, we're pulmologists, we're diabetics, we're cardiologists, we're gynecologists, we're surgeons. Yes, but we have Hippocrates' oath, and that binds us, we must help everyone." Where's the government? Where's all this stuff they've been bragging about, we're ready to go? Why haven't we received any instructions, no help in personnel over the summer? Why weren't we preparing where the co-dwellers are, where the trained fans are? Today they have to work, and this voluntarily, doctors, nurses, even older than 60 years of age, who are not Intensive, in this new situation, without training, without sufficient equipment, on tour, at night, still change their colleagues who are ill. Did we really have to wait for the second wave to be so unprepared? It's a question of question. Did we watch the Tarsh show last week? We have heard what this health plan and the implementation of preparations for the second wave of covida-19 in Germany and other countries that have not held the cross all this time. Well, in these countries, apart from Belgium, there was no change in government or total non-government; they did not need to take over supervision of institutions and public enterprises during the summer. There they could fully focus on the epidemic that we've all been waiting for and is here today. The government of Janez Janša, admit it, with the flight of the plane you forgot about covid-19, you forgot about health care. You need to find the culprits, but you won't find them anywhere else, because it's on your side. And a confession. Ms Tina Bregant, State Secretary, Ministry of Health, is meeting at the 27th Health Committee. Ten. 2020 said: "This situation expected us relatively unprepared." How to proceed, of course, is now the question. Will we be ready for the third wave in 2021? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The word is Janez Moškrič, prepare the mags. Andrew Reich and Sam Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that. All I can say in this short time is that this list of 252 exchanges of the previous government does not include 98 members of the Civil Protection, the Civil Protection Headquarters, nor 80 appointments or jobs in the last days of the previous government. So, Mr. Former Minister, you are deceiving both the committee and today at this meeting. These are the important, crucial changes and do not measure with the same vats. But if we're going to the other swaps, we know this number is bigger. If I say anything else, that's the point. When it comes to the exchange, when Prime Minister Janez Janša is president of the Government, it is a brutal attack on the State institutions, but when it comes to the exchange in the government of Marjana Sarca, he said, as far as staffing is concerned, according to him, this is the direction of our instruments in the right direction. How interesting, isn't it? When one government is in charge, it is a matter of directing instruments in the right direction, when the government of Janez Janša is in charge, but it is a brutal attack. Do you listen when you say: Every individual, a citizen, now in the second wave, is solely responsible for fighting the first wave, but is the government responsible? These are two very contradictory statements from the same group. But the truth is, we're all guilty of another wave because we underestimated it. The government, however, did not underestimate him, so all people today are being provided with health care.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Replica, colleague of Rudy Bear.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Dear Member! We didn't get along or you don't want to understand. I didn't claim that those 80 jobs were within this list, of course not because they weren't there. They can't be on the list. We've been over this before. As for membership in the Civil Protection regional headquarters, this is evident in the list, of course it is, look at it again. I mean, you've been stinging him for so long, we could really get him all the way. And nowhere did I say that you thought this government was solely to blame, that this government was solely to blame for this tragic second wave. I never said that. I have never argued, in fact, apart from the government, of course, we all together in this country are guilty of what is happening. However, you wrongly claim what you said at the end that the second wave of government — while the citizens, of course, are as ignorant as we are — we underestimated this second wave — was expected to be ready. See, that's not true, and I was quoting you from a government speaker, and we also quoted the secretary of state as saying freely before the universal Slovenian public: no, it wasn't according to plans, it surprised us, we weren't ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u178	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I'll be very brief. I'd like to refer to my colleague Ferjan's words. True, the government of Alenka Bratušek has been in charge, but it has been in charge of the following principles: professionalism, belonging, knowledge and experience. And this is the way it allowed us to get out of the crisis in 2013 when Slovenia threatened a threesome and had seven years of economic growth. Even now, when our president in the role of Minister of Infrastructure took office at the Ministry of Infrastructure, she was the first to say that no official would ask how and where he came from, but that he would take into account the expertise, membership of the Ministry, knowledge and experience. The proof that she did so is that one of the more important functions of the Infrastructure Directorate has been occupied by your member, and I personally wish that there were so many professional people in state-owned companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Now he has the word only Bevk, who participates outside the seat.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! They have been staffed by all governments and will also be staffed in the future. In the White House they say they're replacing the janitor and the powerhouses, all the way from A to Z, but this year is something special. We are faced with an epidemic of Coronavirus, which can only be compared to Spanish flu 100 years ago. I'm sorry that the government of Marjan Sarca stepped down just before this outbreak. Even more so, we can all regret the fact that the government of Janez Janša has not opted for a state-of-the-art stance, which would mean that it faces only or mainly the threat and consequences of the epidemic, and leaves all the remaining over-staffing and subordination of social sub-systems for a period after the epidemic, when citizens and citizens are or are not given a mandate in future parliamentary elections, whether regular or early. Stay healthy! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u181	Thank you very much, colleague Bevk. But now I have the next reported Luca Mesca who isn't. Predrag Baković is next. And then there's Jerza Korča. Comrade Baković, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Minister, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We have been discussing this all day, so the opposition is brutal and I don't know what kind of staffing of this government, whether the coalition or the government is defending itself by saying, of course, you have also been recruiting. They also brought with them a didactic tool, which we have already seen on the committee. But I think we should understand something differently. Of course, the coalition says that staff exchanges are not disputed that this can happen, but I think where it goes, I'll say, the limit of some healthy taste, namely when you change in the institution of that leader, those institutions that are somehow investigating some unusual business that may concern you or some position near you. And if we go to chronology, how exactly did the gallbladder start pouring into the NPU? It has already begun, I will say, in this mandate, since the current coalition of opposition, where there has been a lot of mud on Mr Male of these indications, which we have heard a lot about today. The NPU has, or has, been dealing with a few other things all the time, and one of them is funding the media close to SDS. She was being investigated or the case is being investigated, I think she's called Baku, where Mr Jelinčič is being investigated. House tests on protective equipment. The problem is, you're changing key people at the moment they're conducting these investigations. Even though the government may not have had such a purpose, it puts all of this in a strange position and a strange position because at that time it changed. And look at the fragment. What happens? Mr Jelinčič speaks publicly or clearly, not publicly – he thinks they are not recording it, but it has obviously been recorded – that the NPU should just be abolished. Then, at some crime scene, he borrowed money from a criminalist for covert actions, a virtual drug buyout. Which, of course, confuses me and I ask the question of the letter and I get the answer that I think this really happened, and then I see, the media, the journalists are investigating and getting from the police – I haven't got it yet, but I have asked for it – from the police for the answer that they gave a completely different opinion or prepared a completely different answer than the minister then sent it to me or gave it to me. Here, on the one hand, the Minister claims one thing, the police say the other, and in all this context, we can, in fact, be problematic and in fact we have to question such things. This isn't about who's been in charge anymore, who's been in charge less, you've been in charge, you've been in charge, but it's really about the moment that some institution is investigating something that you don't like, the most inappropriate time to change the frame. However, if you have been employed for a pure purpose or not, in any case you will be placed in a position that may not be a purely ordinary workforce. Look, we have the fourth v.d., the fourth director of the National Investigation Office, or the director of the V.d., which happened in this good half year, we have the third director-general of the Police, and here today there has been a lot of talk about the fact that it is not the second that the government actually recruited and the ministry only appointed the Director-General of the Police. Yes, of course, and then the Director-General of the Police appoints him. That this was not just some criticism of the work of the NPU, I was particularly encouraged by a statement by colleague Irgle, who said: “Can’t be the director of the NPU who protects banking crime.” How can you substantiate these findings? I don't know how this director feels or the uncontested director of the NPU when he hears such an epiphany. Finally, it is very difficult for me to imagine how the director of an institution is to an investigator who is investigating something – let's say that this is banking crime, let's say that this is money laundering, whatever it is – he says, no, but we will not investigate it. That moment, my dears, would have been in the media and probably somewhere else. And that's right. And that's right. You must be aware of something else – that there is no blue sky over the director of the NPU, and there is a prosecutor who directs and leads the investigation. In fact, there's not much to the Director about how this investigation is going to take place. He leads, takes responsibility, and this is also the vast majority of all the work he does. It's not that in a situation like this, it could have an impact on the fact that they won't now question someone who would be the key to hearing it because then he won't be with us anymore, because he's going to go abroad. All of this directs, leads the state's attorney's office and it's important to know that the director doesn't have a key role here. The statement that the director of the NPU cannot be the one protecting banking crime seems really controversial to me, but to put it well, because we cannot say that. We can't say that. I know it's probably going to be a lot of things now, obviously, but it's the prosecution that's running the investigation. On the two major cases that have taken place, which we have also dealt with today, the prosecution has found that there are no grounds to suspect that this crime has taken place. So it didn't go forward at the start. I'd finish up here. It will probably have to respond to a replica, but really, I would invite my colleagues, because we don't have much time left, let's be constructive as much as possible, and not just casually say that someone is protecting, supporting tax crime and so on. This goes beyond the limit of good taste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to the Minister, I'd like to remind you of the following. Because of the time elapsed or due to cancellations, we have two more applications actually. First Natasha Sukič and then Marjan Sarec. So I'd like to ask you if there's any more feedback to let us know. But I'm handing the word to the Minister first.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Baković, I would like to say again very briefly, probably when I said this once, you weren't in the hall. First, with regard to the termination of the NPU. I think it's been explained several times from the government's point of view that no one plans to abolish the NPU. As you know, the termination of the NPU is only possible through law. The NPU is defined in the law, so if NPUs are to be abolished, this must be done in law. As you know, we have in our programme or in our coalition contract that we will, of course, amend both or all three laws governing the functioning of the Police, and I can assure you from this point of view that I have not listed any changes to the law that would essentially end the NPU. As I have said many times, I expect this part of the Police to work more effectively. You've never heard me say anyone was protecting a bank crime, either. But I can tell you that this gentleman was obviously half this year, and the previous one, if we're perfectly honest, has failed. Either he was good or he wasn't good, it's hard to say, but the fact is, very successful guys weren't. Like you said, everything ended up somewhere in the D.A.'s office, the D.A. turned it down. Last time, Mrs Alenka Jeraj said very well, in fact, Prosecutor Brezigar dropped the complaint if there were no signs of money laundering, while at the same time the prosecution announced that it was investigating whether it was money laundering with certain employees in the bank. Doesn't that seem illogical to you? Someone's dropping the charges if it wasn't for money laundering, and the D.A.'s saying it, and we're still investigating whether it was money laundering. I just don't get it from a healthy farm. Apparently, it's different with the D.A.'s office. As far as what you asked. You're also probably late, and I'm here today, or before you were gone, showed a letter from the Special Prosecutor's Office asking us to provide them with all the documents related to this loan of €6,000. And now I'm going to say very much to the farmer. Someone said that a police officer borrowed 6,000 euros from him, the police checked it out and said that it wasn't, this particular reporter still claims that it was so, even a written statement that he signed - and what is more normal than having the minister doubt the police report on all of this? However, we are not afraid that this will be checked by someone else besides the police, so that the Specialised State Prosecutor will look into whether this gentleman actually borrowed six grand or not. Is it enough for the police to say they're gone and we're done? I think we want to know if it's true whether it's happening in the police or not. And I'm not saying that's true, but I want to, and I'm saying that I want to get this one degree higher, that there's going to be an independent institution, and I believe that this is what SDT is, this is what it's going to look into. Look, we have Mr. Sharic's case, you probably know him, in Maribor. The gentleman was accused, a police officer accused of eavesdropping in the OKC, of installing wiretaps and so on. An internal audit was carried out, the first internal audit or internal surveillance of the Police, all of which was confirmed, and indeed, I would say, they have already written a complaint, after 14 days or three weeks later, it is concluded that none of this is true. Even the D.A.'s office will find out. Yeah, I think it's right that we have at least two levels inside the police to find out if it's what the police do, really or not. Not that I wouldn't trust the police, but every time it's better double control than none. And here, look, Mr Baković, I'm not afraid of giving you that answer. We'll give you everything. True, the police said they checked that none of what he was saying was true. According to my information until 14 days ago, so before you asked, they didn't even contact the applicant. The U.S. Attorney's Office is still writing, probably you put this on SDT, or I don't know who just put it there, writes, that's what I said earlier when you weren't there, talking about: he borrowed 6,000 euros from someone. Look, he's not someone, and he's got a name for someone. Of course I can't tell him. This gentleman, a member of the NPU, has borrowed 6,000 euros he has never returned. I think it's right to check it out. For the first time that the SDT will come to us, or we have already stepped down, we have just stepped down again today – and there are the names of this gentleman who is supposed to borrow it. I think it's perfectly normal for us to check things out until the end. And there's one more thing. What has been said many times today, however, has been very well said to you: Can you imagine that some ongoing investigation would have been duped; the next moment everyone would write it, all the media? That was about us. But what I'm saying is, can you imagine any of these investigations that we've been talking about today, the investigation of protective equipment, Baku Jelinčič, the financing of the media and so on, any way we can stop? And I guarantee you that in the next second it would be 24ur.com: Hojs, I don't know who ordered you to stop investigating here, the new NPU director told the investigator that we won't watch it anymore. Look, this is, this is an illusion. I can't imagine the police doing that. The investigation doesn't involve the director of the NPU. The director of the NPU organizes things, asks the main investigators whether it was done. Every week, if you ask me, he has colleges where he asks: we have 30 things to deal with, what did you do here, what did you do here, what did you do here? He'll see it again in a week. I don't think it was done because otherwise I'd get them to higher gears. There are 70 investigators in part 30 cases — and you have been talking about the fact that complicated things are and that they are waiting a long time for us to wait abroad and so on, but 70 divided by 30 is 2. So two investigators are working on one thing and they're waiting, I don't know if that's gonna be the third. I think things can be done more quickly and more effectively. I can be wrong, but I have such an experience from the economy that people have to be pushed. But that doesn't mean mobile, of course, that it won't be misunderstood. However, they need to be asked for objectives, they need to be asked for intermediate objectives, they need to make reports. I was shocked when I found out that even intermediate reports didn't work. No reports, no weekly reports, how much they've done, what they've done, and so on. That's what I think it will be. So don't worry about anyone stopping any investigation. On the contrary, once again, all that is in progress must be completed, and I hope that it will end as soon as possible and as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Replica, Comrade Baković.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u186	We understand each other, I'll say, in these matters, not last. Yeah, whoever's trying to influence this option or that option is, it's unacceptable. But you didn't understand me very well. I didn't say you wanted to shut down the NPU, that's what Mr Jelinčič said at the time on that video we all saw online. And here this connotation shows up, so it's being investigated, then pressure is being exerted, somehow the criminalist is being mutilated. If the criminal actually borrowed $6,000, the first question is why. Did he really borrow it to do that? And even after the statement that Mr Jelinčič made here, he said that this ransom was also made – and this worries me. Why? Because of whether the police borrow money from citizens to then perform what the job dictates to them, or whether it went well — and I allow it — for a fraud where someone falsely exhibits some of the circumstances shows something to someone for the purpose of taking advantage of their assets illegally. That's another thing. And of course, in every system we can have such anomalies that happen, and in the military, and in the police, and elsewhere, and at the bank if we want. It is therefore necessary to determine first whether this apparent purchase was made with this money. This is a key question and here is the key answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague named Natasha Sukić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Chairman. After all these hours, it is probably not necessary to repeat the crucial point why today this debate, because I have heard a variety of ideas about why we are here today and why we are discussing. In the opposition, we do not have a problem with each current government recruiting some of its own people to key positions. We also made that clear all the time, although some of you then say we've criticised it all the time. No, but it's two key things. It is about which personnel you put in what positions, and it is about the fact that certain institutions should be professional, independent, autonomous and that policy should not be tossing out its hunters directly or indirectly. Let's say it's NIZ and I won't repeat myself. Now I will tell you what bothers me about certain personnel who have been placed in extremely crucial positions, and I will light up today's debate a little bit more on the other hand, in a way that has not been presented here today. Sort of. At the night meeting of the government of Janez Janša, the Director General of the Security Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence was also dismissed. Mr Andrej Osolnik, a new director-general, was appointed to the public as an actor in the Depal Vasa affair, when it came to military intervention in the civil sphere, as we recall, and for which he had simply had to step down at that time from the Defence Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Janez Janša. And what is the problem with the gentleman in question? At the trial against the four men in the Depala village, Osolnik testified in favour of the accused. The arrest in which Smolnikar was injured at the time did not seem to be of any significance to this individual. And this is a cadre, which now holds one of the key cities, one of the key positions in the administration of this government. That's the problem. Next. On 8 April 2020, another political change followed by the Director of the Directorate of Criminal Police, Mr Vojko Urbas, was appointed as V.D. Director-General of the Anton Travner Police. This time, too, the candidate of the public is known mainly for his affair. Because of reports of bullying and sexual assault, he left the criminal police in 2016 and now returns to its top. And that, I'm sorry, is just people who raise doubts, doubts, and it's no wonder that we're looking a little bit more closely, and we're just wondering how these people can be rewarded for such a real mortgage in the past. On 14 April, political change followed at the top of the Owl. Until then, the Director was dismissed, and Mr Janez Stušek was appointed. Also, the new director of the Sowea comes from close circles of the SDS, and he helped the Prime Minister Janez Janša in the case of Patria and also defended him from the lawsuit of seizure of property of illegal origin. The new director is also closely associated with other Janšev’s longtime confidants, such as Borut Petk and Dark Njavr. These are the connections that are visible far away that we know and that cannot be hidden, and these things are very controversial and questionable. The Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering was also involved in political cleansing. Why the Anti-Money Laundering Office? I mean, this seems very marginal and controversial to us. On 1 May, the Director of the Office was replaced by Ivan Kopina, another loyal member of the SDS. Among other things, it is the former longtime municipal councillor of the SDS in the Municipality of Straža. In doing so, it is recalled that the Anti-Money Laundering Office also investigates disputed lending contracts concluded by the SDS party and is thus illegally financed from abroad. And now you're surprised that we're opening up these questions, that the opposition is opening up questions that they're calling for us to open. On the other hand, it is a matter of urgent but formal confirmation of the necessary expertise that has long been waiting for the blessing of the Government. Let's say 12 proposed candidates for state prosecutors have been waiting since August and September for confirmation in the government after the remaining part of the candidate procedure has been completed. They answer to the Government that the proposed nominations still need to be checked. Given that professional institutions, such as the State Prosecutor's Council, have already reviewed them, we can therefore reasonably assume that the Government must also verify the political relevance of these candidates and candidates or new staff, which would of course be a scandal anywhere in the world, only with us is this something that has become normal, the real normalisation of some matters. Of course, police supervision is not enough to know who is the master of the forecasting process, so the government of Janez Janša must also have power and influence over the state prosecutors. Next. The government is trying to centralise its power to gain control and power over public agencies, and we have already talked about this, which should act independently and exercise a supervisory function. This is also what the directives of the European Union say, not just that. It's not something that's grown on our lawn. With one law, however, the Government wants to bring six public agencies together quietly into one new public agency and two other agencies into another public agency without any public discussion. And since many public agencies are involved in very different areas, as well as the way they operate, no one is clear where the expected synergies would arise. It is clear, however, that one director, who will be appointed by the Government, will be watching over all these agencies so far, and then this director will, of course, replace all those directors who are going to go in your face. Because these aren't so easy to replace at the agencies right now. So, you've clearly remembered some clever reorganization moves that will allow you to do so, and you'll clean up nicely again and submit your subsystems. And that's very, very controversial. The pursuit of total government is also reflected in an area where there is not enough power or financial power, but it can be a powerful tool to promote its ideas. I am talking about a culture where the competent ministry has decided to collide, where the most important thing is that everyone who is currently in such or different positions changes, sets themselves up like, obedient, less dangerous, some unambitious person. The Ministry thus amends the Rules on Professional Commissions, which will also have a side effect on the expiry of the mandate of all the members of the professional commissions so far. New members of all commissions, emphasis on all commissions, and the current ministry leadership will be able to place on its own terms. These are the committees you asked yourself about before. Interestingly, however, the government or ministers do not replace those who should. I have already mentioned today, for example, because of the premonition proceedings against Jožet Kojc, who was accused of the abuse of prostitution, and now he is suspected of money laundering, no one but your Secretary of State Franc Kangler has been involved in police procedures. And you, Minister, have not yet solved this unprecedented matter, but you should have lived in a normal democracy. Borut Jakopin, deputy secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, where he was employed as a data protection officer, has made progress today. And this is the person who said about the Slovenian CSDs: »CSDs are the beds of feminists, frustrated women and female beta boys«. That's what this man tweeted, so he commented on the death of a ten-year-old boy. Do you think that's a good shot? Are those the professional personnel you're talking about? Is this what we need to trust? I'm just asking. And I'm gonna stop here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Lampret, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u190	Thank you very much, chairman. I'll be very brief. But since Mr Andrej Osolnik has recently been mentioned in the debate, allow me only a few brief explanations. Mr Andrej Osolnik has 27 years of career in the Slovenian Army, of which all 27 years are in the intelligence and security field. For the last four years of these 27 years, the Chief of the sector for military anti-intelligence and security activities, which is in some ways a counterpart of the Intelligence Security Service. Since 2018 he has also been employed in the Intelligence Security Service. So if anyone was an insider in this area, if anyone knows these matters, it is probably Andrej Osolnik, who was at his own request, and we have also talked about this today, relieved of the functions of the Director General of Security Intelligence, and to this place was named Dr. Jaroš Britovšek, who also has a long career in this same service. Thank you very much, chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Hojs, Minister of the Interior, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Look, Mrs Sukičeva, in this part, concerning the statement made by our employee at the Ministry of the Interior, I must assure you. It's just that if you look at my old twitter, I condemned it, I said, I wrote that such statements are inappropriate and, of course, they're not worth someone who works in the state administration. But to connect with what a person does properly in the ministry and has achieved by all criteria those points that he can progress – I do not think that it is possible to punish a person in this way and that it is not right to do so. So it's possible that someone might be a prostitute, someone could speak badly, and so on. Last but not least, Mrs Sukičeva, I apologize for having to say this publicly now, you have proposed to the Prime Minister of the Government, KUL President of the Government, who is now paraded around and invited, I don't know, Ambassador Desus and SMC, who said that he was a whore for the coalition president. I apologize for the expression I have to say here, but look at his twitter account and you'll see. I think that this is a far more serious accusation than that made by Mr Jakopin. And as I said, I condemned her, and I actually got away from her publicly. As for another appointment that you have somehow highlighted, this is Mr. Vojko Urbas. I have to say, the things you're talking about, I've been looking into. True, he was accused of sexual harassment or mobbinga, but look, all the things against him fell down at the competent institutes. So was he the victim of a conspiracy, or was he the victim of someone trying to discredit him, but maybe someone wanted to discredit him because he wasn't politically real? But everything he's seen hasn't turned out at all the institutes. So I think we have to believe a man in that sense. Do you think that if one day someone accuses me of something and then the media is going to write about it and later it's not true, I'm going to have a sticker like that my whole life? Probably. I probably agree with that, but it's not gonna be true.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, colleagues, we have exhausted the list of discussers. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate, in which the representative of the Government and the representative of the proposal for a recommendation will be given the floor. Representative of the government, you have one more minute, something like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! At the end of this nine - hour or almost ten - hour session, I think I can finish here with two thoughts. All of you, or most of you, have said that it is probably time for us to step together in the fight against the epidemic, so I am particularly inviting you members of the opposition to publicly fence yourself or to publicly invite all those in these days who are calling for a meeting I would say this is actually an anarchistic meeting where attempts are made among people to create some discomfort, where provocations against the police are planned, against public order and peace, and finally we have decisions that prohibit such gatherings. [[…]] Therefore, of course, I invite all of you, especially once again the opposition, to call publicly that now is not the time for such a meeting. Mrs Ivanuša has also shown the posters well, or what is shared among people. And the other thing that you will also be very helpful to the Slovenian police, which will be so much more burdened these days or in these months, is – and of course you have the perfect opportunity to do so within the next week or within 14 days – to support the activation of Article 37a. Of course, I will be extremely grateful to all members of the opposition, but I believe that the entire Slovenian police as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The representative of the proposaler Nataš Sukić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I'm going to be very brief, and I'm going to conclude this discussion today. In no way is the minister or political party to which he belongs, in the specific cases that we have mentioned today, a party to the SDS, a state institution cannot and must not apply to its staffing range or a comforting rematch. In Levica, we are still aware that political recruitment is a long-term harmful practice, which is in a worrying increase. The Government's self-inflicted attitude not only to seriously endanger the stability of democratic regulation but also to the untransparent and reckless use of public money and to the detriment of the reputation of the institutions of the State and the State as such. Because political recruitment may contain — may contain, not necessarily, but easily — elements of systemic corruption and raise suspicions of abuse of official position. Let me finish with a painful black humor. If this government had not been so dedicated that it had even suspended the Director of the Statistical Office, it might even have understood what an exponential increase in infections meant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The text shall be delivered by a representative of the proposer, Nick Prebil.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! At the conclusion, let me first thank all Members and representatives of the Government that you have participated in this meeting and that you are still insisting. However, I would like to take away some of the key issues that have been raised today. I started my opening part as a proponent by saying that this is a consequence, this meeting, and that is exactly what has been shown today. What has been shown is what we are warning all the time – that of course it is diverting attention, and somehow with those different approaches it conceals this numerous entourage of the government of Janez Janša. Although one way you can be trusted, all that has been exposed today clearly shows that there are still and there are still many suspicions about your staffing, that it is not really about the changes you speak about, but only about those who allow political rewards of faithful and obedient personnel, the political rewards of those who are doing certain services. In fact, the government of Janez Janša is using this epidemic to fight all those who do not agree with this government, but, last but not least, with the media with the judiciary, we see, even with this ugly opposition calling out the meetings in the epidemic, we forget, once again, that this is the result of the numerous staffing of the government, and this is the response to the control exercised by the opposition over the existing government. That this accelerated recruitment, as you say yourself, helps to effectively control the epidemic, is actually not going to be funny, but it's kind of misleading and some twisted logic. Since it is clear that with such recruitment, such as staffing, where four directors are replaced at the NPU in less than six months, the concern for their own interests or the interests of the SDS party is shown to be greater than they should be, i.e. for citizens and citizens. In view of this, this exchange of four directors at the NPU is probably just a problem in that chief, i.e. in the Director General of the Police. I find it hard to believe that all the images mentioned today are really bad or bad. That's it. Maybe to conclude, I am really worried about what will happen, what will happen after the end of the epidemic, what will happen after the end of the economic, social crisis, what will happen when Janez Janša's government sweeps away all the people and sets up all those who are still waiting. We touched on Surs and Furs at the Anti-Money Laundering Office, the supervisory councils of RTV, STA, companies, let's just look at the AVP, the Agency for Transport Safety. What does this have to do with the epidemic? You say that much, I say that absolutely nothing. Last but not least, the desire for power is reflected in the final declaration by Minister Hojs, who urged Members to support the activation of Article 37a, i.e. at the time of the epidemic, for the protection of the southern border. What does this have to do with the epidemic again? I don't think so. Thank you so much and good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-02-SDZ8-Izredna-47.ana.u199	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 47th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
