ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 53rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Eva Irgl, Nada Brinovšek, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Mag. Carmen Furman, Monika Gregorčič from 11 a.m. to 13 p.m., Franc Kramar, Dr. Franz Duck by 12 o'clock and Nick Prebil by 12 o'clock. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, no Member or Member has announced for the day of its participation in a meeting outside the National Assembly using a remote-session application. I welcome everyone here. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda – this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure in the framework of the ordinary procedure. We continue to discuss Article 14 and the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica groups. And Tina Hefferle has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone! I would have continued yesterday's debate and would have said in the opening that, even in the LMŠ Group, we would have liked the Criminal Procedure Act to have finally been amended in its entirety. We know that we have before us a new KKP-O, we will soon run out of letters for all the changes, and it is not just us who point out that all these changes in procedural criminal law are making the whole law very opaque and in certain places even useless. These are the words of the Supreme Court. At the same time, I am saddened that in the debate on the novel that we are considering, we are not even talking about all the other changes that this novel brings about European legislation, but we have all focused on a single article which, in our opinion, is so very much controversial that we are giving it all the attention. This is an article that discusses how and how information from criminal records will be made available in a new way. This article is a coalition or two coalition parties, the SDS and the NSI, prepared somehow for a reason or on the ground that they are solving a situation caused by the Supreme Court's judgment, where the Supreme Court has made it clear and clear that when deciding who has the right to look into the criminal record and what it can look at, the provisions of criminal procedural law apply. Because of some misunderstandings of this Supreme Court decision or if someone did not want to understand this decision correctly, you now want to systematically change this arrangement in the CAP. And more; your regime practically derogates in this respect from the Criminal Procedure Act itself and puts the Public Information Access Act over it. I will read this text of this disputed article and say so, "in accordance with the law governing access to information of a public nature, it can, irrespective of the provisions of this law", i.e., the Criminal Procedure Act, "any oral or written request from the authority to allow it access to information of a public nature in individual criminal matters." At the same time, you forget that criminal proceedings are one of the most sensitive proceedings before a court. These are the worst violations of human rights, not only of the accused, or of those to whom the crime is only manifest, but also of the human rights of the victims of crimes. And here you are now completely excluding the application of the Criminal Procedure Act, which is totally contrary to the Supreme Court ruling, which made it clear in May this year that the Criminal Procedure Act applies when assessing who is looking into criminal files. In fact, by this article, you are acting under Article 14 of the Supreme Court decision. I have already told the committee that this indicates, in my opinion, your attitude towards the rule of law or respect for the rulings of the Supreme Court and some relation to the judiciary. At the same time, you forget that the Criminal Procedure Act does not formally separate the entire proceedings into individual stages. This article thus allows you to look into criminal files both during the investigation phase and during the forecasting process, which, of course, are not public, is not, and this is a major problem. To avoid thinking about it, I will also read very briefly a section of the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office's position, which states this: “The proposed amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, so that, after all, anyone can obtain data from a criminal record on the basis of the Public Information Act, is illogical, non-systemic and incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendment de facto removes the confidentiality of the procedure in its entirety and takes the effect on the conduct of a pre-trial or criminal procedure from the judicial sphere and subordinates it to another State authority. It is prepared in complete contrast to the arguments put forward by the professional public.” You are going back through the entire profession, past our well-intentioned warnings by the opposition and, as I have already said, demolishing the Criminal Procedure Act itself; and more, with this provision of an information officer, who is the administrative authority, you are putting the judge above the judicial branch of authority because – what happens here? The Information Officer Act provides, or the Act on Access to Public Information, to which you now delegate this responsibility of decision-making, that an information officer shall decide on the inspection, which I have already stated in the position, is not necessarily a criminal law expert, nor is it necessary or necessary to be a legal profession. The only condition for someone to occupy a position of information officer is that he has a seventh degree of education and now he will decide practically in criminal proceedings, on who, how, when, he will look into criminal records. This is very – um, how would you say I won't be harsh, well – unacceptable; simply unacceptable. If I look at this new provision of yours from another point of view, allowing access to criminal records on an average basis, it will practically lead to practice – this has also been pointed out by lawyers or representatives of the Bar – leading in practice to this, let's say that the witnesses will be able to get acquainted with the testimony of other witnesses, which we know will then affect their testimony, which greatly and substantially endangers or at least complicates the criminal procedure if not all of the proceeds of the criminal procedure. You can even drop the charges because the witness is going to be infected, you say. And the other aspect, we can lead to this, you will lead to the practical elimination of one of the detention reasons defined by the Criminal Procedure Act. And this is that a suspect may be detained if there is a risk of destroying the evidence obtained in this proceeding. Now, if I make this very simple, I hope to be able to say it in an understandable way. In the Criminal Procedure Act, you will now give him a new opportunity to look at everything at any time; into the criminal record at all its stages. Anyone. By doing so, you will allow him to influence, directly or indirectly, such as the witnesses or the material evidence itself. On the other hand, the same law may prohibit and even detain the suspect in order not to destroy the individual evidence collected in criminal proceedings. This is a bit contradictory: on the one hand, you give him the right and on the other hand, the law can even detain him so that he does not exploit and influence this right or destroy the evidence obtained in the criminal proceedings. In short, this provision of Article 14, which affects Article 128 of the CAP, is extremely harmful. I'm surprised they support her at the Ministry of Justice, where they should be legally conquered. I can only ask myself, so a little more rhetorical, what is the real interest in this provision, what is your interest in this. We know that it will be possible for anyone, I have already said, to come from journalists to various politically motivated people, to open a criminal file, to look a little, to read a little, to get acquainted with it, and I don't know about neighbors, about anyone. In this way you will also discredit before the legal proceedings are even completed, you will discredit the suspect, at the same time the victims of the crime, and this is simply controversial for us. The legal basis, as it is now, is perfectly fine, allowing all stakeholders to have access to criminal records in a way that judges can judge. So it's a judicial branch of power, not an administrative body. Therefore, we propose in the opposition that this article be deleted because it is extremely harmful to the criminal procedure itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The next one was reported as Nick Prebil. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, representative of the Ministry! I will continue where colleague Heferle ended up, adding that in addition to the unacceptableness of this amendment, it is actually madness. What this government is carrying into the National Assembly, such articles, laws, subversives — this is now an interesting expression — because that is so much more than normal. We are changing legislation that has stood for years and years, which has been functional, which has worked. On the basis of you saying that the reason for the adoption of the law is the transposition of the regulation and the implementation of the directive, then you adapt three quarters of the novel in your own way and go again, so that it is virtually no longer a novel, but it is almost already a new law. The first problem is that this is too much. The law on criminal proceedings is becoming increasingly opaque and in fact raises doubts about some constitutional principle of the rule of law. I often hear from the coalition representatives about respect for the rule of law and the rule of law. We have had a lot of debate about this and all the time, how important it is, how respect we respect it and how we advocate it. And once again, you defend this only when it suits you, but when it does not, it is the greatest enemy against you. Once again, let me perhaps go here to the rule of law as some constitutional concept of our country, or some modern democracy. I believe that you know this principle of democracy, the principle of legality, or the principle of legality, which clearly states, of course, within the framework of the principle of democracy, that we directly elected Members in Parliament make the most important decisions, in particular those relating to citizens and citizens, and that the National Assembly, as such, is with Members of Parliament over the executive branch of power. I have a feeling that this executive branch of power is in every way seeking to interfere with these decisions with its proposals. You think because things are going to go through, we have enough votes. Your coalition members support matters, no matter what. But in fact, you're doing long-term harm to the state because it interferes with things that shouldn't be interfered with. To return to this infamous article 14. In the opposition, we propose deleting this article, which is certainly unacceptable. As the colleague said, it's not even about what we're saying in the opposition, because we see you're not listening to us. At least listen to the expert. The one you sing night and day, how important it is, how important it is to listen to it, how everything has to be systemic, and then with non-systemic articles you change this systemicity. It's a special law. The CAP is a special law and it regulates a specific area. Now you will essentially vote on the CAP with this article, i.e. the law that is laid down for an area, by re-voting it with some general law, such as the Law on the Accessibility of Public Information. You know, it's kind of amazing that you add an article in some specialized law, regardless of the provisions of this law, but this can apply. I'm really sad that the Minister isn't here today. I mean, in the National Assembly, it was slowly starting to happen here that ministers no longer go to this state council. Yes, she's the secretary of state here, but I want to ask the secretary, personally, what her opinion is about her being a solicitor of legal science, as a legal expert, allowing such an abuse of law! This clearly shows that she is not capable of this city. And I don't know what you're eating in the government or in the coalition, but that's crazy what you're doing. [[…]] That someone in the middle of a criminal procedure could look at the witness testimony, the entire criminal record and possibly influence the change of judgment, the change in the lives of the people. Unless the amendment to delete this article is adopted, of course, I am absolutely against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Any other interests? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided on Thursday in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that's a second defensive proposal for a tax on motor vehicles within the framework of an emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the representative of the Magi. Kristini Steblaj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Well-known honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal of the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, which is ahead of you, follows three key objectives: to prevent an increase in the tax on motor vehicles due to a new method of measuring CO2 emissions, to reduce the existing taxation of motor vehicles and to automate or to speed up the procedures for the assessment of the tax on motor vehicles. As a result of the new environmental and transport legislation and as a consequence of the new method of measuring CO2 emissions, the tax on motor vehicles would increase significantly following the current law of 1 January 2021. With a view to preventing such an increase, this proposal provides for a renewed scale of taxation of motor vehicles, so that the tax in the future will be fixed according to the Euro emission standard, the type of fuel and CO2 emissions. However, certain types of vehicles will still be affected by the calculation of the tax on engine power. The tax will make motor vehicles less environmentally friendly, while electric vehicles and other motor vehicles without tax exemptions will not be paid. An additional, so-called luxury, tax on motor vehicles introduced in 2012 by the Public Finance Balance Act is also being abolished. In 2019, approximately EUR 45 million of budget revenues were realised from the motor vehicle tax and the additional motor vehicle tax. The proposed tax change completely reduces the tax burden by about two thirds or is projected to be around 16 million euros. This almost 29 million reduction also covers a reduction in the additional tax on motor vehicles of EUR 8 million. In doing so, I add that the overall income loss assessment also takes into account the current situation and the resulting car sales decline, in particular the new cars. Notwithstanding the fact that we will have less revenue, the government estimates that the measure is positive in the current crisis situations. We believe that it will promote consumption and benefits throughout the automotive industry, including domestic suppliers of components for the automotive industry, manufacturers in Slovenia and suppliers of motor vehicles, who have been severely affected by the consequences of this pandemic. As already mentioned in the introduction, this law also aims to accelerate procedures for the taxation of motor vehicles. To this end, an automatic exchange of data between the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the register of registered motor vehicles of the Ministry of Infrastructure will be established. In this light, the proposal for a law for registration authorities introduces the use of an online service that allows access to data from the vehicle records of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to the obligation to invest a tax on motor vehicles in electronic form, a transitional period is foreseen for the debtors, natural persons, with an additional proposal, so that they can continue to invest these forecasts in physical form by the end of 2021. However, with regard to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, I would only like to give a brief response. Indeed, the proposal for a law does not follow the Motor Vehicle Act, since it is not a statutory law in relation to this bill, which is being considered today. However, there are established nomotechnics and rules which are already established for the field of indirect taxation. It is also conceptually not a completely different way of taxing motor vehicles compared to existing regulations, but it brings certain changes and innovations in the way in which the tax liability is calculated, and therefore, of course, the arrangements are slightly different in these parts. Allow me, at the end of the day, to point out something that I have already pointed out at the meeting of the Committee on Finance on the consideration of the draft law, the revised Law on Motor Vehicle Tax. This is a debate on the sixth point of Article 17 of the amended draft law, which is written slightly too widely from the implementing point of view and I really ask that it be defined in this part. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of everything that is said, the Government proposes that this proposal be supported by the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 51st emergency meeting on 11 December this year, the Government submitted the proposal for a Motor Vehicle Tax Act to the State Assembly for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments have been tabled by the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus parliamentary groups on Articles 16 and 38 of the draft law and by the LMŠ Group on Articles 16 and 17 of the draft law. In an additional explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained the objectives and solutions of the bill, where she stressed that there was a reduction in existing vehicle taxation and that taxation was based on environmental criteria. The aim of the law is to encourage consumption. The following is an assessment of the financial implications of the bill, which represents a fall in revenue of EUR 29 million per year. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that their written opinion was prepared in accordance with the duties and obligations of the service. She pointed out that the service did not receive all the answers to the questions raised and also mentioned a similar opinion by the Government's Law Service. She said that the opinion also covered the nomotechnical comments and further presented comments relating to the vague and inconclusive text, the lack of explanations, and pointed to the question of the hierarchy of legal acts. In the debate, individual members of the Committee expressed disagreement with the proposal for a law because they believe that the proposal provides a favourable tax treatment for the richest people. At the same time, they considered that the revenue from the tax on luxury vehicles could be invested by the Government, for example, in health, social and, last but not least, in transport infrastructure. On the contrary, other members of the Committee felt that the current tax on motor vehicles was too high – we are talking about an additional tax on motor vehicles – so luxury vehicle owners decide to register and purchase vehicles abroad and so all other potential tax duties do not remain in Slovenia. They also considered that the proposal would stimulate demand. In the course of the discussion, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance provided some additional clarifications. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendments tabled and adopted the amendments of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Articles 16 and 38 of the bill and the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 17. It has become irrelevant to the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 16 of the bill. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Jože Lenart will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Secretary of State! Yes, at the time of the government of Marjana Sarca, the Ministry of Finance had put its proposal for a law on taxation on motor vehicles into public debate as early as 2020. Four months later, in May, we raised an oral question in LMŠ Minister Shirtzl. When the Ministry submits a proposal for a law, in the event that an old law is still in force on the new year, the new emission measurement rules will make the average buyer feel this strongly on the wallet. Then you answered us that you would first analyse the entire tax system and, based on this analysis, give us an appropriate solution. Over the past seven months – and some of the non-existent analyses – later, when the water is already in our throats, we are considering a bill for which the Legislative and Legal Service, in its broad opinion, points out that it is a vague and vague text with poor explanations. You did not take any of their comments into account. Moreover, at a time of deep deficit, you boast that the tax will be lower for everything, which means as much as 30 million less in the budget. You're gonna owe us a little more than that, and we're gonna make this work. But how will people actually feel about this tax? Experts point out that the decrease in the vast majority of models will be relatively modest. In the lower middle class, DMV will be slightly lower by €10, up to a maximum of €100, and major changes are expected in more expensive vehicles, with a stronger engine that has been heavily taxed so far. At least some improvements were made on the Finance Committee. Together, we have ensured that Slovenia will not become a landfill of environmentally-disputed crypts from other countries. In addition, you supported the amendments of the List of Marjan Šarc to include fire vehicles among motor vehicles which are exempt from taxes. In addition to the fact that they also know the exemption in Austria, Ireland, the Netherlands and Portugal, the impact of the measure on public finances can be described as minor, as, on the other hand, by relieving the additional tax on luxury cars, the budget will be reduced to EUR 8 million for the circus. In this case, however, the State has to face fire companies because their role is much more than just to put out fires because they show solidarity and unselfish assistance in every accident. With the new amendment, this list of tax exemptions also extends to vehicles used to carry out the mountain rescue service, the cave rescue service and the underwater rescue service, as it is the same principle of public interest. When we adopt a new, so-called environmentally friendly tax, we are surprised to hear that the incentives for electric vehicles through the Eco Fund are being reduced right now. The reason for such a decision is that it is an increase in incentives in recent years and that the prices of electric vehicles are falling, but unfortunately for the wider population, this is an increase in the price of electric cars. Like Renault Twingo Z. E. Life R80 will cost more than EUR 2 000 500 after the new calculation. Thus, measures to follow Slovenia's commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in sectors not included in the emissions trading system, including transport, appear to be a series of reckless solutions. As a result of all of this, we will abstain from voting on the law in the List of Marjan Šarca. We are aware that it is essential that the law is adopted by the new year, but the criticism goes to the Ministry of Finance to postpone until the last. That is precisely why we have a law before us that is unclear, indeterminate, and because of time constraints that are bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u12	Thank you, President. Dear fellows! The proposal for a new taxation, government regulation in order to comply with European rules, brings major changes in the field of taxation of new cars. A key consequence will be a huge reduction in tax liability for customers of expensive and prestigious cars. While it is extremely difficult to calculate the amount of the tax discount for rich customers, it is extremely difficult to calculate precisely because the amount of the tax is linked to the purchase price of the vehicle, which manufacturers hide as business secrets. But the calculations that were made show two. First of all, that a tax discount for a buyer of EUR 100,000 worth of a car could even exceed the value of a new medium-class car or some EUR 10,000. Secondly, the State budget will be cut short by several million euros as a result of this measure. We are aware that the inadequate taxation of a wealthy buyer of the force into tax avoidance by means of the way that the car is purchased and registered abroad for business purposes and that Slovenia does not therefore collect the vehicle tax. However, not everyone who is wealthy buys a car abroad because they cannot tax this either. Therefore, the introduction of changes would only impoverish the tax budget, and it is unlikely that wealthy buyers will buy and register such prestigious cars in Slovenia in a short time to make up for the loss. For the second time in the same meeting, we must remind the Government that the tax oasis strategy is not appropriate for a developed country. According to some calculations, the budget deficit resulting from changes in the motor vehicle tax is just as much as it would have cost the country a month to provide workers with full compensation for waiting for work. This measure would certainly make it easier for employees and employers to encourage stricter respect for measures to combat infection. The debate on how to better regulate the taxation of motor vehicles is certainly meaningful if the circumstances are normal. The time for amendments to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act is extremely inappropriate and equally inappropriate for further consideration is also a government proposal. Even if time were right, more attention should be paid to the issue of car taxation, as its main problem is not only high taxation for prestige. Incentives for the purchase of electric and hybrid cars are also currently insufficient, as the law does not distinguish between types of engines, but the taxation is based on the power of the engine. This, however, puts environmentally more acceptable vehicles in a worse position. We believe that this bill should be considered inappropriate and treated when the epidemiological situation is under control. As this is not possible because of the stubborn insistence of the rulings, we will not support it in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mateja Udovč will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u14	Your Honor! The proposal for the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, which we are considering today, will be supported by the Modern Centre Party Group. We have been working towards a comprehensive reform of the tax concept for two years, all since the presentation of both candidates for the Minister of Finance and over a number of questions sent. On the basis of the well-known Dieselgate affair, the European Union has started a new process of measuring CO2 emissions. With 1. 1. 2021 will end the transitional period when all motor vehicles will have to have data on CO2 emissions only after the new measurement process. The new measurements bring an increase in the value of releases, which also means a higher tax rate, and consequently the promotions of the medium- and low-priced car, which we sell most. In the SMC Group, both governments have only been reminded of the last issue for two years. The reformed law is already needed by the end of the transitional period, we need to adopt solutions that will not impose additional tax burdens on consumers and further undermine cars. In any case, the promotion of cars is due to technological upgrades. The draft new law prepared by the former Minister was assessed by the SMC Group as a reckless move because the calculations showed that there would be a significant increase in the taxation of lower and middle-class cars. So the most sold new cars in Slovenia, including Renault Clio. That is why we did not support the proposal in the SMC Group at the time and advocated tax neutral taxation. We also note that the replacement of old vehicles with new ones, even if they do not have lower discharges, is still more environmentally friendly than driving with older or imported used vehicles. The covida pandemic almost completely stopped the world’s automotive industry and brought disastrous consequences. On average, German producers have fallen by about 30 percent, and there have also been higher redundancies. Therefore, by reducing VAT to 16%, they are trying to slow down the decline in sales of new vehicles. In addition, special financial assistance to the automotive sector was introduced in France and Germany. We must be aware that the Slovenian automotive industry is strongly involved in Germany, since almost every German car is an integral part of Slovenia. Therefore, if we want to help our car industry and increase consumption or purchase of new vehicles, we cannot, in our opinion, afford an increase in taxation. More than 40,000 workers are employed in the Slovenian automotive cluster, over 50 companies, with some estimates of the consequences of the cove are at risk of more than 10,000 jobs in Slovenia. In the SMC Group, it does not make sense for Slovenia, with lower taxes, to promote the import of used vehicles from other EU Member States. With the amendment to Article 16, we have achieved that the tax on motor vehicles over 10 years of age is changing. We would therefore like to encourage the replacement of old vehicles with new, more environmentally friendly vehicles, and welcome the proposed system of taxation of motor vehicles, which will only bind to environmental factors, without the sale price of vehicles. In addition, a zero DMV level is set for electric vehicles, which is in line with the sustainable mobility strategy. The bill also abolishes the luxury tax introduced by Zuyfa. Its purpose was to divide the burden of public financial consolidation into a larger group of debtors rather than to pursue environmental issues. In the SMC Group, we point out that its basic purpose has been achieved and that it has resulted in the purchase and registration of luxury vehicles in other Member States of the European Union where they do not have this tax. This avoids paying taxes on motor vehicles, additional taxes on motor vehicles, VAT, annual taxes on the use of registered vehicles in road traffic, registration costs, insurance and so on. The use of these vehicles in transport adds to our environment, our infrastructure and our public treasury. These conclusions were also analysed by Furs, who found that one form of abuse, that a company in another EU Member State should be established only to purchase and register luxury vehicles through the company and to avoid the payment of duties in Slovenia in a consistent manner. Since we prefer sparrows in our hands to pigeons on the roof in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will unanimously support the abolition of luxury tax and the whole bill proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The word is given by Primož Sicer, who will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u16	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues, good afternoon! The Government Tax Law on Motor Vehicles provides new tax exemptions for the rich; those buying wasteful and environmentally harmful luxury vehicles. However, ordinary citizens who buy cars in lower price classes will in some cases even be further hit by the new tax regime in their pockets. At the height of the health, economic and social crisis and at the time of the record budget deficits, which drastically deplete the available resources for public health, social services and economic development, the Government will provide €29 million to the rich in the budget. The data of the Ministry of Finance show that from January to October 2020, the budget deficit increased to EUR 2.4 billion and Slovenia's net public debt increased by EUR 5.7 billion. If we want to maintain the public health and pension system and other pillars of the social state, new tax inflows will have to be provided which will not burden the weakest, but the income and wealth of the rich and the profits of corporations. But Janez Janša's government is embarking on a different path; a path that, at the expense of tax exemptions to the rich and capital, will further exhaust the already underprivileged state budget. The draft law abolishes the additional tax on luxury vehicles and introduces a new definition of the base and dose of the basic tax on motor vehicles. Under the current regime, when establishing the tax base in addition to environmental standards, the price of the vehicle is taken into account as the main factor and therefore the most expensive vehicles are generally taxed the most and the cheapest vehicles are at least. According to the new government proposal, however, the tax base is determined entirely independently of the price of the motor vehicle. The government has thus made sure that the rich owners of luxury Porsches and BMWs will receive far-reaching discharges, while many ordinary citizens, who can afford low-priced duty or golf at best, will be additionally taxed. The buyer of the luxury BMW M5 Competition, for example, will receive a tax reduction of €150,000 and a tax increase of €12,000, while the customer will receive a tax increase of €19. At the end of the second wave of the epidemic, which has completely escaped control, we urgently need funds to strengthen health capacity, increase bed count, improve the technical equipment of hospitals, recruit new staff, systematically strengthen public health infrastructure, networks of homes of citizens and other pillars of the social state. But the government of Janez Janša, who apparently completely lost the compass, decided at this critical moment to adopt a law to promote the luxury consumption of the richest. Above all, the government is deceiving the law to pursue environmental objectives. According to the new tax base and the amount of tax is exclusively linked to environmental criteria, as it is intended to encourage people to buy more environmentally friendly vehicles. It's sand-in-the-eye. All the key environmental criteria, i.e. the Euro emission standard and the amount of CO2 emissions, are already taken into account in the existing regulation in determining the amount of tax. However, the key difference brought by government law is not new environmental standards, but the exclusion of price factor. Failure to respect the price factor will contribute to the additional award of the owners of the most expensive vehicles, which typically also produce more CO2 emissions. With a new tax system for a luxury BMW buyer, such as producing 140% more CO2 emissions than clio, the government will provide 42 000 euros. The buyer of a much more environmentally friendly duty will still have to pay 19 euros more tax. If the Government really wanted to protect the environment, then it would not encourage the purchase of personal vehicles that over-polluted air, acidify soil and water and destroy forests, but would encourage the reduction of passenger transport and allow the transition to group transport with investments in railways and other forms of cleaner public passenger transport. The law, which writes tax exemptions to the richest, forgets the key problems and contributes to the climate crisis, we will oppose in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Nova Slovenija Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Respectable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! On Friday, the Finance Committee approved the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, which brings major tax and bureaucratic burdens to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In New Slovenia we regret that there are so many populisms, miscalculations, misunderstandings about this law, which is a negative surprise. In fact, with the next year 2021 a new methodology for measuring discharges entered into force, it was therefore necessary to prepare a new Tax Law on Motor Vehicles. On average, the former government's proposal would bring about a higher tax burden of 30 per cent and increase the annual tax burden by an additional 15 to 18 million. These are the facts. In New Slovenia, we are in favour of a completely different approach because we advocate the tax burdens of citizens and economies. For many years, therefore, we have been committed to reducing the tax on motor vehicles and simplifying the procedures in this area, and this is what we are now introducing by this law. Due to the current very high taxation of motor vehicles with a higher engine capacity, sometimes up to 50 per cent of the vehicle’s sales price, an increasing number of undertakings are taking a decision to register vehicles. Where? I'm abroad. Out of the country! This avoids paying taxes on motor vehicles, value added tax, annual road traffic charges, registration costs, insurance and the like. After applying the amendments or following the implementation of this new Motor Vehicle Tax Act, the taxpayers will no longer be paid this, which means that they will be aware that all these payments will remain in Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen! The following comparison or the following numbers are relevant. Last year, in 2019, 96,000 vehicles were newly registered in Slovenia. But the payout, more than 150 grand, registered for a new one in Slovenia, was only 10. Is that possible? It's only 10. That's a dozen lashes. So the rest are actually registered abroad. So I go DMV, VAT, registration, cash insurance, for example, Slovakia or Germany. Both new cars and used imports will become significantly cheaper after this new law and this is very important for us, for New Slovenia, because we will in some way help to reduce the burden of family budgets. From now on, only environmental components will be taken into account for the DMV tax base, and not the sales price of the vehicle, since the law primarily pursues environmental objectives. When determining the tax, account will be taken of the type of fuel, CO2 emissions, engine power and Euro emission standard. This also entails a significantly lower taxation of electric vehicles, and amortisation will also be taken into account for used vehicles, as the duty will be reduced depending on the age of the vehicle. The tax burden on motor vehicle customers will on average decrease by 65 per cent, in the pockets of citizens and citizens – our citizens and citizens! – and it will be estimated that some €29 million will remain at the annual level. In 2019, the buyer of the new vehicle on average paid around €460 tax. From now on, this amount will stop at around 160 euros on average. Unlike today's complicated and long-term procedure, the new debtor will be able to fully implement the process through the eTax system. All data on the motor vehicle will be pre-filled on the basis of the chassis number. The reform of the law also entails administrative simplification in the application of allowances for large families and disabled persons. With the proposed amendment of the coalition, we are expanding the set of beneficiaries for tax exemption – fire vehicles, civil protection vehicles and so on. We are pleased that the law also has great support in the professional public. Mr Slavko Ažban, an expert in this field, from the Personal Vehicles Section, says, quote: “Slovenia will finally receive a modern, European comparable and environmentally-friendly law with the new Motor Vehicle Tax Act, which will help achieve very ambitious environmental objectives in the field of transport.” Thank you for your attention. We will, of course, support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Vojsko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! Due to changes in transport and environmental legislation, the European Union adopted a new methodology for measuring CO2 emissions and fuel consumption years ago, which also binds Slovenia. During the transitional period, the tax valuation of vehicles by both methods was permissible from 1. 1. However, 2021 will only apply a new method which significantly increases the tax on new vehicles. The amount of the new tax will no longer depend on the sales price of the vehicle, but on environmental criteria, while also eliminating the additional tax on luxury vehicles. The tax on electric vehicles will be applied at zero tax rate. The revised mode of taxation will primarily cost expensive vehicles, compared to now, which will result in a 29 million-dollar drop in revenue according to some calculations. While we are still recording a 10% decline in government budget revenues, the time for this is not appropriate for lowering revenues. The proposal says that, as long as we do not legalise the proposed exemptions when buying new expensive cars, it predicts negative consequences for the car industry and the environment, as the higher price of new vehicles encourages the consumption of more environmentally friendly vehicles. Even though we recognize certain solutions as appropriate in the bill, we will not support them. The law received a number of comments both by the Government's Law Service and by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which was completely ignored by the proposer. Inconsistentness, ambiguity and a poor explanation of the law will lead to difficulties in its implementation. As a result, citizens will neither receive legal certainty nor the predictable taxation announced by the proposer. The fact is that Slovenia needs a new way of paying taxes. In the SAB, however, we believe that the Government, as a proponent, must respect the environmental objectives to which Slovenia has committed itself. Our country is already having difficulty with the requirements of the Air Quality Regulation and is in violation of the Directive, which has led the European Commission to issue a reminder. With lower taxes, we will encourage the purchase of cars regardless of their environmental burden. Simply put, there will be more driving on our roads and city centers. In this way, we are moving away from the commitment to reduce exhaust emissions and redirection to public transport. We respect environmental commitments in the SAB. Like many European countries, we are committed to sustainable mobility, reduction of passenger transport and the transition to group transport. The objective we are committed to is to improve public passenger transport, which will be free of charge for all in the long term. Consequently, the SAB Group will not support the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Under the tax system, the country uses a mechanism of authority and political arrangements based on the redistribution of power to meet wider social needs and to correct the market mechanism. The fairness and justification of the State's intervention in redistribution of the social product and in the functioning of the market mechanism is a constant dilemma and a challenge in shaping the economic policy of a modern country. The regulation of the tax policy and tax system in modern countries further complicates the fundamental conflict in the interests of citizens who, on the one hand, want to reduce their tax burdens while requiring the maintenance of the achieved scope of public services and social welfare and even stepping up these requirements with economic and technological development. Taxes are directly linked to the Institute of Authority and coercion. The country appears as the main institution and tax policy maker with its tax sovereignty. Tax sovereignty means the power and right of the tax authorities to determine and collect taxes from taxpayers. The Motor Vehicle Tax Act is only one of the tax types throughout the tax revenue structure of the tax budget. In 2019, €45.2 million of this tax was collected, representing 0.52 per cent of all tax revenues. From 2015, for example, until including 2018, this percentage ranged from 0.35 per cent to 0.51 per cent of total tax revenue. Members of the Desus Group estimate that these large-scale relationships need to be known and taken into account in the evaluation of the legislative proposal. The most important change is in the redefinition of the tax base. The sales price of the vehicle is no longer the basis for the calculation of the tax, but the taxation depends on environmental factors. In particular, this means that the tax obligation is determined according to the type of fuel used for the engine, given the carbon dioxide release, expressed in grams per kilometer, according to the power of the engine in kilowatts and the environmental category defined by the Euro emission standard. The expected impact on the revenue of the state budget is negative, annually €29 million. The loss of part of the budget revenue will be compensated by an increase in sales volumes of vehicles due to more favourable purchasing conditions. However, it would be good to remember in all this enthusiasm that the primary objective of tax policy is to fill the state budget, so that a large budget debt does not go too far into the future and ultimately prevents the country from going bankrupt. When tax authorities give up a sparrow in time for a pigeon on a roof, this is very risky because a tax pigeon rarely, if ever, lands on the ground. Taking on higher, in particular progressive taxes is not the same as taking on a suicide policy of stripping taxpayers or turning petty human envy into tax pay. As everywhere in life, this is also a matter of real measure. The problem with the marriage proposal is that we cannot be sure whether it contains the right measure. The effects of its declared objectives will be measurable in the future. Luckily, they're not too far away. However, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about half of the tax revenue of the state budget. Members of the Desus Group will be supported by the Proposal for a Tax Law on Motor Vehicles. However, the projected increase in future revenue generation will be closely and closely monitored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. All in attendance, all in attendance! In the Slovenian National Party, we agree that something needs to be changed in the field of motor vehicle tax, and the question is whether the proposed changes are a step in the right direction. Although the vehicle is very small and the property is taxed in Slovenia, the government will also relieve the taxation of motor vehicles. The financial implications of this bill will again be extremely negative for the state budget. The government estimates that revenue from the motor vehicle tax will decrease by almost EUR 30 million. Taking into account the 2019 data, when this tax was in the budget for EUR 45 million, the state is cancelling two thirds of the tax on motor vehicles. In the Slovenian National Party, we strongly doubt that such a reduction in the tax on motor vehicles will trigger an increase in demand or the sale of new vehicles. There's no need to encourage Slovenia to buy a new car. It's sad that we have to change the law also because the police and Furs don't do their job. In our country, vehicles with Slovak, German, and Bosnian registration codes of the United Arab Emirates are used daily. If all vehicles bearing foreign registration codes were monitored consistently, there would be no mass tax evasion in motor vehicles. And another illegal migrant would have been caught, and another smuggler would have been carrying drugs and so on. Monitoring of passenger vehicles should be one of the most important forms of security control in the country. The number of electric motor vehicles increases from year to year, irrespective of the tax on motor vehicles. From an environmental point of view, this is a good thing, too bad that there are no more hybrid subsidies, I suggest they are reintroduced. The problem is that Slovenian transport infrastructure does not follow this trend. The biggest problem is the lack of electric chargers, quality, i.e. fast and cheap chargers for electric vehicles in Slovenia are not available, and the electric charge of the vehicle in the domestic garage is very slow. If Slovenia wanted to become a more environmentally friendly country, we would not talk about reducing the tax on luxury vehicles, but about building infrastructure for public transport. If you do not live in a city, you are literally forced to buy your own motor vehicle because public transport is neither frequent nor cheap nor accurate. Once again, in the proposal for a law, in the Slovenian National Party, it is most disturbing that the costs of upgrading and connecting information systems between national authorities will amount to almost half a million euros. Any change in the information system is accompanied by high costs, so one wonders what all these ITians and computerists in the public sector are doing. Their primary task is to regularly carry out upgrades of information systems within the framework of regular work and tasks. Where the taxpayers applied for a tax on motor vehicles, they complained about long-term procedures. The financial offices kept and kept all the documentation when the stakes checked the authenticity of documents in other countries, while the price of the motor vehicle fell. The official does not know that the sales price of the motor vehicle depends also on the season. The price of the engine is higher in the spring than in the autumn. We therefore welcome the administrative burden on taxpayers. However, older motor vehicle owners are likely to have comments on the legislative decision to submit the DMV account only in electronic form. However, I believe that during a transitional period we should also allow the possibility of filing the DMV account in writing. By contrast, with the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, visionary policy could have an impact on the fiscal, transport and environment. This proposal of the law certainly does not have that effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Kepa will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, President. Nice to meet you, secretary. Colleagues, colleagues! The proposal for a tax law on motor vehicles is an acquaintance of the coming period in which there will be more legal proposals to reduce taxes. It should be borne in mind that a transitional period of up to 31 years was established in 2018 at the time of the adoption of environmental and transport legislation. 12. 2020 for the recording of CO2 emissions and thus tax motor vehicles. So much would mean a new tax burden for all motor vehicle owners with 1. 1. 2021. The main objective of the proposed law is to introduce a new method of taxation on motor vehicles for the benefit of all vehicle owners and to encourage consumption, as well as to register as few motor vehicles as possible with a higher volume abroad as possible. The proposal of the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, following a new binding of the amount of tax exclusively on environmental criteria and no longer on the price of the vehicle, will make an important contribution to improving air quality and will follow the transition to cleaner vehicles. The bill also removes administrative obstacles and simplifies the procedure both for Furs and for users. The bill brings down revenue to the state budget next year for €21 million, which on the other hand means savings to motor vehicle owners. With the amendment added to Article 17, the exemption for payment of the DMV with the status of the intervention vehicle shall be added. We will be happy to support the proposal of the Motor Vehicle Tax Act in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 17 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus and the amendments of the LMŠ Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I see it's a desire to discuss it. The application shall be made. The first one has the word Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the country, we are facing the worst health crisis in the last 100 years. This health crisis, of course, entails consequences that go beyond just the issue of health, but that affect the areas of social security, employment, the economic crisis on the horizon, of course, the budget is drawing short. And so this year, and especially for the next two years, the country has been heavily indebted. There are huge budget deficits. Of course, this is not wrong if, for these missing funds, the state is favourably credited in international financial markets or obtains financial resources from the European Union, and then makes a meaningful investment in modernising hospitals to build the homes of older citizens, in order to eventually create young people who lack 10,000 public non-profit apartments. But that didn't happen. This money, borrowed by the government of Janez Janša, is preferred to save employers, not to help people and not to strengthen solidarity in society, but also to buy weapons. I'm talking about that special law for 780 million euros that would go into the hands of an arms complex. At the top of all these deficits and crazy public finances, however, it is to the detriment of the general public that the government of Janez Janša still cuts taxes on the luxury of the rich. Amendments to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act mean nothing more than taxing luxury cars that only the rich can afford. Someone who buys a BMW for 150 000 euros will, according to the news, be entitled to more than 40,000 Euros of high tax leave. Forty thousand euros for someone who already has a full ass of everything that has more than too much! Someone on a working salary, in the middle class even, can't afford a car for 150 thousand euros for a short time. We can ask the representative or representative of the Ministry of Finance how much time a worker has to go to work on a minimum wage, not even to bring in enough money with this salary to buy such a car, but to bring in enough money just for this tax leave that you now give to the rich. In these cars, the category is 150 000 Euros is 40,000 Euros. How long has a worker in this country been working on a minimum wage or on a little more than a minimum wage to get 40 000 euros out of his mouth? In fact, this question is not even mathematical. It doesn't matter if I put him in charge of the Ministry of Finance or not. Since the answer is, such a worker will work to the death because there is no person who goes to work for a minimum wage or a little over a minimum wage, there are 120 thousand in the country who would spend enough money in life to buy a car for 150 000 euros or to make any life investment for 40,000 euros, as tax breaks for the most luxury cars are now being paid. Today's theme is not for the first time in the National Assembly. In recent days we have addressed several questions in Levica, including public interventions aimed at what Janez Janša is doing with taxes. So that it will impoverish the state budget, our common wealth, for EUR 29 million, in order to reward the richest, even profaned, even the pig-rich with tax leave. And this week, when I was asking a question on Monday, I could hear the answers somehow in the direction, but yes, how many people do we actually have in this country that is buying a car for 150 000 euros. Indeed, there are many more of them, at least those who, as such, are misled on paper. They only register their cars abroad. As only the Ministry of Finance or the government of Janez Janša has written as a proponent of this tax burden of luxury for rich people that rich people avoid paying taxes. Instead of persecuting them instead of sanctioning them, instead of returning this lost money to the common treasury, because the rich do not want to pay honest taxes and justly contribute to our common well-being, they now have a special law written down for them. Not that these tax evasions and dribblers of Slovenian tax legislation will in any way penalise and bring the lost assets of all citizens and citizens back into the treasury. No! No! Their tax evasion, or avoidance of payment of taxes, will make little legalisation, thus cutting off their tax and doing 29 million euros of serious damage. The second answer I have to these government statements is that how many people who import cars for 150,000 in this country are next. Somehow in these 150,000 euros, I quote the upper limit, the extreme limit, usually compared to a working car, for example, with some credit for 10,000 euros, which will be in certain contexts for this worker to buy, because he has to drive every day to work in the industrial zone, the government has put up an additional few ten euros in tax, a poor 20 euros in additional tax. But there are also those who belong to the wealth category, for the Slovenian situation certainly rich people, who do not buy a car for 150 000 euros, but buy it for, say, 70,000 euros. That's still a lot of money, still a heavy luxury, AUDI A6 50 TDI Quattro limousine, that's 71,000 euros. In this category, for example, the tax is reduced by EUR 5600. It is said that the tax on motor vehicles is not some environmental measure such as the government sells – this is the most perfidious, this is the most perverse argument in the whole of this story. The government with the largest government party denying climate change now refers to the need for green measures in order for rich people to cut taxes on luxury cars that are most polluted within the category of passenger vehicles. Disgusting. Anyone who wants to work in green transport will invest in railways and not in the tax burdens of the rich. There is no reason, exactly, for public finances, for sound reason, for development or for any other reason in this country, for rich people to continue to be taxed, especially special taxes such as those for 150 000 euros and for 70,000 euros and so on. Now I'd love to tell you what kind of cars these are, but I don't know the truth about love. Members of Parliament are among the 3 per cent of the most paid jobs in this country, so we have a top 3 per cent salary, but there is no way, there is no scenario for us to afford a car for 70,000 or another 150,000 euros. Thus, to compare all citizens and citizens who are accompanying us today, how very pigly you have to be so rich that you can afford such a luxury car. And even with these tax burdens on the rich, it is the same as government measures against the epidemic. The government of Janez Janša does one thing and one thing, the only thing he can do is damage.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u29	Procedurally, my friend. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. We are in second reading and we have before us the amendment of the coalition's sent groups to Article 17, and if I understand already that extreme leftists do not understand tax policy or tax legislation, I also understand that individual Members do not read the introduction of the law. However, I would expect them to devote at least one sentence in their deliberations to what we are talking about as an amendment to Article 17. So, presidents, I expect you to remind all further debaters when they do not follow the agenda, but let us also leave this political freedom here, that people speak demogosically, that they do not speak about the real purpose of the law, but I really expect you to warn them that they are talking about amendments to a particular agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u31	Look, Comrade Lisec, we are at the debate or amendment at Article 17. In accordance with our usual practice, however, we are discussing the practice already adopted in the first amendment a little wider, so that I allow this debate to take place a little wider, otherwise I will be happy if you stick in particular to the amendment to Article 17. My friend Kordish, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u32	A well-established parliamentary practice is that the first amendment introduced to such a law is widely discussed and can be fully debated.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u33	My friend Kordish, that's what I just said. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u34	I've been in this National Assembly for six years, this has always lasted, Mr. Lisec of the SDS is here much longer [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u35	We've cleared that up. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u36	And he certainly knows that. [[…]] By simply using procedurally and [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u37	Just like you are now, like you are now, Comrade Kordish!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u38	for discrediting the interlocutor. [[…]] President! You're jumping into my word. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u39	I'm jumping into your words because I see you don't have a procedural proposal to repeat what I told you before, even a response. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u40	Mr Lisec also did not have a procedural proposal, but only misused it procedurally because we all know what parliamentary practice is. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u41	My friend Kordish, I'll take your word for it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u42	So you didn't, so you didn't, so you didn't. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u43	I take your word, Comrade Kordish and a reminder. [[background advertising]] The word has calm down, Comrade Kordish, please. [[…]] My friend Siter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! With settled parliamentary practice, I would like to begin by saying two words on the whole marriage proposal ahead of us, a stable parliamentary practice at least in the last two and a half years, as far as I am sitting alone in these parliamentary benches. We have before us one marriage proposal, which, according to time and circumstances, is written down very badly. I'm speaking purely imaginatively on the subject of saving the time we're in, the crisis we're in. In the midst of a health crisis, in the midst of the economic and social crisis, and let us not forget and remember every time we speak that we are primarily in the midst of a climate crisis. One factor that we all forget too often, which we have been reminded of, say, yesterday's debate in this Chamber on the topic of the Mining Act or the ban on fracking, where we have seen that the summit of Slovenian politics does not even understand the importance of this issue or the crisis of this crisis, an alarm within this climate crisis. Progressive countries, advanced democracies have included the climate issue in all other issues, all other debates, every economic, social issue they solve, is signed in their climate perspectives. From this title, this law, which is before us, currently does not reach some basics, to say the political standards of the 21st century. So, taking into account your environmental component. But that's not the only problem with this marriage. The ministry only says that the budget deficit this year or from January to October amounted to €2.4 billion. The public debt increased by 5.7 billion euros, and the crisis, particularly the health crisis, and as a result all of its sister crises, have mainly affected the situation in the public health system, in the pension register and at all other levels and in all other fields of the social state of providing care, health care and social security for citizens and citizens. Given that we are in the middle of the second wave of the epidemic, which has escaped control, for which the Government does not have some solutions to control, we can understand that these pressures of the people and the pressures of the state budget will only increase and deepen. For health care with such a policy, there will be fewer and fewer for social security, for workers, for those in this society who produce and fill this budget, in order to ensure social protection and health care for themselves and their community, there will be fewer and fewer. It is not the only solution to address this problem to a fair tax policy, but it is one of the important solutions. In a very simple way – I lovingly call it household accounting – the logic of Slovenia as a healthy solidarity society should follow a tax policy that is precisely this: solidarity. Which means at home, you have more, you make more, you have less, you make less. It's not some kind of severe math, but it's a very effective model. The legal proposal we have on the table is the diametric opposite of this healthy farm. So, to someone who should contribute more, because even if he has more and more to contribute, it will not endanger his social or any kind of security. Not to say, hey, be solidarity and contribute as much as you do. No, don't make any less. And you, who's a worker who can't even afford a car more expensive than you can afford, now we've given an example of clia or golf or something in the new car's price class, I don't know, 10,000 euros, and you're gonna pay more. So, you, who can afford 150 thousand Euros of expensive car, and that's me completely out of my paradigm of reality, we're gonna give it back to you. And you, who can afford a car for ten grand, you're going to make a little more contribution to the joint cash register, because, hey, you need to be solidarity. Miha mentioned earlier a little bit of this mathematics, which means 150 000 euros in wealth, a luxury that you can only use for your means of transport. and what it means in one working reality. Kordish said he wouldn't count, I took the time and I calculated. 150 grand that someone can afford for a means of transport, and I'm counting on him to have all his other existential problems covered. 150 grand a worker on a minimum wage spends together – do you know how much time? - 214 months. This is a half-life so that one such means of transport can afford it. And only this profit from the legalised tax evasion that is now being introduced into the legal order, that is, the 40,000 euros, would be brought together by man for 58 months. By saying that 150 000 euros is, for example, already on the committee, I have highlighted the value of a two-party large house in my home Rebs, and here we are talking about a means of transport – 150 000 euros. Such people, right, now I have to actually address and on the committee and in the positions of the parliamentary groups is the representative of the Ministry of Finance and now, I think, Member NSI, stressed, such people or those vehicles that are purchased for 150 000 in Slovenia, is a higher-up fact that the cheaper vehicles are bought 96 000, only 10. [[…]] So, 96,000, to say the cheaper, low-cost vehicles and only 10 of those ultra-luxury vehicles for 150,000. And that information is supposed to calm us down! This information shows that the law is written for 10 people. Here are the ones that say that the car is bought or registered in Slovenia and will now come with their 150,000 cartridges up to 40,000 vacations and then there is a group of those who don't even do it because they play Slovenian tax policy and register somewhere outside and I don't know what. For 10 people! At the expense of 96,000 who will not escape their tax obligations and will because they are accustomed to being fair and hardworking and contributing, they will pay. The main problem, but the main problem, to say the least, in the long term, is the environmental problem here, of course. The government is serving at this point, I hope, by deceiving, when it speaks of the law as pursuing environmental objectives. It's not like that. According to the new tax base and the amount of tax is bound to environmental criteria, i.e. the Euro emission standard and CO2 emissions and engine power, which – paraphrasing the Government – should encourage people to buy more friendly vehicles. It's sand-in-the-eye. All the key environmental criteria for the purchase of a car, i.e. the Euro emission standard, the amount of CO2 emissions and so on, are already taken into account in existing legislation. So it's not some kind of hot water discovery, things are already standing and they have a legal basis, and they're already taken into account in determining the amount of tax. However, the key difference brought by this new current regime is not per se new environmental standards, but the exclusion of the price factor in determining the amount of the tax. So, just and only, once again and also at the expense of the environment, rewarding the richest. As it is said, we in the Left Group cannot support such a law. It is not fair for working people, it is not fair for the fact that the government applies double criteria: one is considered poor, one is considered rich. Especially in the light of the fact that this is also a dictatorship of the government. Here we are fighting against the playing of legislation when some rich person who can afford a car for 150 euros is playing, because, playing a Slovenian legal order, the laws are arranged in such a way that he can do the same, only that he will be rewarded when a poor person is receiving social assistance, and this is not even proven, in the notes, by playing a Slovenian social policy, social transfer, so that he does not get 400 but gets 450 euros, but is a fire in the roof. These double criteria here are dangerous things. It's just one of the rudest licks of the richest. That's it. Which, of course, we're used to, used to by this government. I have not learned anything new about the Government by this law, but it pains me that every time he takes a working man hostage, who actually contributes to the environment, does not take the blame, and does not make a solidarity contribution to this social community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word is from the representative of Wade, mag. Christina Stebly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I'd really like to respond to that. Once again, the tax on motor vehicles is paid only once. This is not an annual fee to be paid each year. Nobody gets anything back. Those who had already bought the car, who had already paid the tax on motor vehicles, paid it. They're not getting any back. But it's about cars that are going to be one. First time registered in our country and here are these changes. If it weren't for this new Motor Vehicle Tax Act, there would be big changes for those who would have bought their first car in 2021. I'm going to repeat a few more numbers, but I'm already on the Finance Committee, anyway. Looks like it wasn't quite understood. Clio — from 1. 1. 2021 whoever buys the new car will pay EUR 66 tax on motor vehicles. If this amendment of the law were not or would not have been the case, the tax rate would have been €249. Then Dacia Duster, for example, we're talking about cars that were also exposed here. These are low-priority cars. According to Dacia Duster, he will now pay EUR 118 tax, if there was no law, he would pay EUR 395 tax. While these are the values of cars between 8 and 13 thousand euros, this also means that the value added tax is in this proportion. Panda, for example, if this new law were not there, I'd have one. 1. 2021 The new owner paid EUR 466 for the first time to register. Now it's 144. Let's go golf. Among the most sold worth about 20,000 euros are these cars. I think there's still the most. If it were not for this amendment or for this new law, owners would pay about €650 tax, so they will pay €82. Let's say those who were most exposed to cars, 911 Pitster – don't ask me which brand it is, but I think it's Porsche – whose purchase value is €190,000, will now pay €9,000. But it's true that if it weren't for that change, I would have paid another 77,000. But of these €190,000, Mr Kordish, a fifth is paid by value added tax. And the annual roadside duty, which is paid every year, still binds to the Kubatura, which means there are some completely different proportions here. I really wanted to, well, with these numbers I'd like to serve again and with data that we're talking about a tax on motor vehicles that's paid once. It's not paid every year. And those amounts would really be for those you've been exposing, even the most socially endangered, for those who buy low-priced cars, really embarrassing. By buying a used vehicle on the market of Slovenia, of course, the tax does not pay it. It is paid only if it is imported from abroad, in a proportionate part – this is the proposal of this Article 17. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Miha Kordish, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u48	Thank you for underlining my point, Madam Secretary of State. Of course, we can always list such vehicles, different vehicles, which according to the new ones – I will say cars for the working class, for which a new tax will be paid, because this is a rather complex tax. It is not progressive according to the price of its only metrics, nor in existing legislation, but there are also releases, environmental burdens and so on. So you, Madam Secretary, can describe how burdened a certain type will be, and the specific type of a particular car tax will still not undermine the basic point. Tax on motor vehicles at the moment includes progression, depending on how expensive a car you buy. It's a fairly fair progression. If you're buying a luxury car, you'll make more. Now this is progressing, or as you yourself said, if someone were to buy a brand car model, you said, Porsche for 190,000 euros, will pay 9,000 euros in tax, before paying 77,000 euros in tax. And then, Madam Secretary, you rushed to relativize how of these 190,000 euros it's not just money that's about a car. Yes, you know, the use of roads and value added taxes is also included in these 190 thousand euros. Poor, poor rich people who buy a car for 190,000 euros and pay a value added tax in here! They'll be poor in no time.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u49	Sutter's friend, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, there is one thing we agree entirely on or are on the same footing. Neither of us knows what this Porsche is for $190,000. Because you're well-paid and because I'm well-paid, it's still a science fiction for us. That's what we're talking about. When we talk about the change that will be detected by the buyer of the car for EUR 190,000, which instead of paying EUR 77,000, is the difference here — how much more? - 68 thousand euros. But two months ago, we were talking about whether we would have given the city's fire department 250 000 euros. How many cars like that, a couple of these cars you buy and you have a fire department in Postojna! These are the priorities of the Government that we are alerting to, and this law most brutally shows how this government is imposing both the tax policy and the resolution of the crisis in which we are. Here are the priorities. Friends with expensive cars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u51	Thank you very much. My friend Mark Bandelli has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u52	President, thank you for your word. I mean, like the untruths I've heard right now here! I didn't mean to come by, I said, anyway, this DMV, I agree with it, with the law, I also told myself in the debate last time. But such lies that I hear in here today! With all due respect, fellows, we are in the opposition, but we are not only in the opposition to paint people. It's not just us in the opposition here, that we're going to talk and deceive where the truth is or what's not. There are certain things that are not true that you speak here. You just have to be honest with yourself – what you're saying. You posted on Facebook one comparison of cars, which is a fake, which is misleading, which is not true. If for one thing, I am proud of myself, I Marko Bandelli here in this national assembly, that I speak with knowledge and I do not care who proposes a certain thing – whether opposition or position – which is right for people. At this point, this law that we have before us is nothing more than what is right for humans. Disgusting the rich. What rich people? Rich people. I was hurt the most by one thing, Comrade Siter, the 40,000 you said would save me the tax evasion. How do you afford it — tax evasion? What tax evasion? Because now he's a private person, he's an entrepreneur, he's a fraud, he's just not that way. Thank God, we have 90 percent of honest entrepreneurs in Slovenia who give jobs fair and honest to people and give them extra-average wages, not minimum wages. The most dirty salaries and minimum wages are in the state sector. Let me understand this one time. That's where we need to fix this. And that pisses me off because there's talk of stupidity here. We'll wrap this up one day. The car, because you gave a comparison, I'll tell you exactly, because it's not true what you're saying. We have been out of every proportion in Europe. We have been nothing in proportion to Europe with this. And the ecological fee will finally be charged fairly, as is the case in Europe for all. Italy is even lower than what we will accept. The Ministry sent me one document one day – I don't know now, probably because you don't know the Italian language – that document you sent me has nothing to do with the ecological tax, it has to do with the sales fees. I have all the documents that it is. Italy has even lower what we are giving now, and we are giving the opportunity to be fair in purchasing these cars right now. What you published, because I apologize, but I have to say these things. Clio, it's going to cost 19 euros more than it used to be. Now I must say that 150 euros is the lower price of clia at the final stage. But it'll be on the back of the car if they're honest enough to lower it by 150 euros. We have to look here because you're so always with these accounts, who is and who isn't. Look at how much duty it is now, and if it is the same when we speak now, it is reduced by 150 euros. That's what's gonna happen. Then it's the honesty of the autochis. But here, what we're gonna do now, we're just gonna do good. The 150,000 when you brag about the cost of this car – because you said it was only 10 sold in Slovenia! Of course, only 10 were sold in Slovenia. Just go down to the garage house and you'll see how many cars are from Germany and Slovakia and they're not Germans or Slovaks. Go downstairs and look, and there's 10 of them in this car house! And of those 10 cars of 150 000 euros would be 27,000 Euros collected in Slovenia, which would be 270 000 Euros to go to the state treasury! Not the pockets, the state cashiers who haven't gone now. And the multiplier effect of this law is very important. For insurance companies that would insure cars at our home, for automobiles, for brokers, for used cars markets, as this will be seen, imports will probably decrease because cars will be already lower prices in our house. How foolish it is to fool around here, which is that I don't understand why it's necessary to show it to people. Instead of saying yes, well, you, too, who have bad wages on the minimum, will save more with this marriage. That's what you have to tell people. Not Marko Bandelli because he's in the opposition, now he has to keep the line that way and that way. We say things like that in Sab – fair. We want our people and our citizens to understand what this is about. More money will bring in. Because those 10, as you yourself mentioned earlier, could be 100, because 90 bought a car abroad, and that money would stay at home, that's the problem. And with regard to environmental duties, it will finally be properly accounted for. Finally. What bothers you so much if there are people who can afford a better car? What's the problem here? It means that entrepreneurs, that they are effective, that they are employers, that they are not at the back of the country. Why don't you understand all this? No! No! Anyone who has something more is either a thief or a thief or a tax evasion, I don't know what to do, we always come out of it. One honest entrepreneur Pa look at the Christmases that are now, honest entrepreneurs also give Christmases very good, even though we are in covido and everything we need. [[…]] Here's the result of this law, so I don't understand where it's going, why this law is being denied as a good one. I think he's good. And that's the way it is. Nothing else. I'm gonna go pop again with this like poor people are getting hurt. Ma, what's going to happen to those who have a smaller salary? What are they gonna get hurt for? In what? They didn't buy it now. They'll buy it tomorrow. The one you can afford, he's gonna leave the money in the state cash register. Instead of leaving Slovakia or Germany, he'll leave it at home. And where will that money go? For the sake of all of us, for the sake of all people, even social, thank God. Roads, education, health care, everything. Where else is this money gonna go? This marriage is the same as it used to be on the table. It doesn't change much. That's why I don't understand why this resistance is happening. So much for me, thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u53	It's a replica of Miha Kordish's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u54	As I said before, the tax on motor vehicles is relatively complex because it does not take into account one category. On the one hand, there are environmental pressures in there, and on the other hand there is progress, and I have given that we can count the models of cars and companies to disability, and we will find examples of some ordinary working car being further burdened, because it has, say, smaller emissions, as well as that the tax for some model of a working car, a certain variant of clia, for example, increases. This is my real point, and I think that all the information here is kept and is accurate, especially since we have just heard from the Secretary of State, how someone who buys Porsches for 190,000 euros, on a new salary or would pay 9,000 euros in tax, should now pay 77,000 euros. The fact that rich people who buy cars for 70,000 euros for 150,000 euros don't pay taxes in this country is just a testimony to their greed, their sacrifice. What kind of honesty are you talking about? You live in the country of the Republic of Slovenia, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u55	Comrade Kordish, let's hold on to some [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u56	who gives you the infrastructure, gives you the opportunity to do business, gives you no idea what you're doing, and you go buy a car in Slovakia because this country that gives you bread, education, all the opportunities to realize yourself, you don't want to pay your fair tax. [[…]] And it's not some kind of bread tax or basic goods and basic foods, it's a tax on such a turbo luxury as a 70,000-euro car and 150 thousand-euro car. And this avoidance of tax pay is not fair. Even less so, after the greed of the rich, tax laws are made [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u57	Comrade Kordish, hold on, please, some stereotypes, stupid ones. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u58	Yes, I'm sorry, but you can't jump into my word, Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u59	No, I'm warning you. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u60	If you buy a car for $150,000 [[…]] [[background advertising]] And you don't want to pay taxes in this country, but you're going to Slovakia, and you have unlimited money, so you're greedy. This kind of tax avoidance is written by the Government itself, the proposaler himself in this Motor Vehicle Tax Act, which we are currently considering. If you have, President, a problem with my debate, then you have a problem with just the explanation that your government has written in this law. It's all on one side. On the other hand, whenever we talk about social transfers, a couple of extra checks for the poor, who do not have milk for bread, but then there is always a problem, and now the rich will be given 29 million euros in tax breaks for luxury.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u61	My colleague, Ljubo Žnidar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! If I were to ask myself, when was the last time we reduced the marriage tax? With this proposal of the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, the citizens were left in their pocket — with this reduction in this law — of 29 million. I don't know if we've ever accepted such a tax reduction in the National Assembly. I don't think so. But if we are, correct me and remind me what kind of marriage it was. And now, on the left hand side, when I hear what kind of crisis the country is in, I would say that those who oppose such a reduction in the tax, that the citizens remain 29 million in the pocket, but one who opposes it needs to ask a little question if he is not in the crisis. On the contrary, I would say that the behaviour of the Left is clear and visible, clearly, very distinct, because they clearly oppose all the good proposals that the current government, the current coalition, accepts and puts on the table. If the current government or coalition, the government coalition, had put a very bad marriage on the table, the Levica colleagues would gladly support this marriage and jump to heaven. This is an act, I would say, which is clear, which is clearly seen by all citizens, and I will not now say that they should ask themselves if this is good for the country, because I cannot be so rude to the citizens. I believe that this is indeed a person of the future and that this is the first tax that has been substantially reduced for citizens. I believe that in the future there will be such proposals for a reduction of taxes, a reduction of various penalties, which are relatively high for our citizens, so that there will be more in the future. There'll be more. I believe that there will be more colleagues in the State Assembly in the future who will support good things and that there will be fewer colleagues in the future who will oppose good things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u63	Thank you very much. A colleague of Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have a debate on the amendment to Article 17. We have tried, we have taken this issue very seriously, including the general text of the law. At Friday's meeting of the Committee on Finance, the proposed amendment was supported by one of the opposition parliamentary groups, which complements the provision of Article 17 of this Act, which provides for exemption from the tax on motor vehicles, by adding a new exemption to motor vehicles which are exempt from the tax, "motor vehicles which are purchased for the purposes of the fire service". According to our assessment, the original proposed text of the supplement was too vague to be interpreted too widely and could also cover vehicles which are not solely in the use of firefighting units and are not covered by the typification of fire extinguishers. That is why, of course, we are also in dialogue with the Ministry of Defence, which covers the area of rescue if you want firefighters, civil protection and so on. We therefore assess that we also need to include in the exceptions motor vehicles of units and civil protection services and other forces for the protection, rescue and relief of natural and other disasters covered by Articles 74 and 76 of the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents. The 74th Article of this Act includes public rescue services for protection, rescue and assistance and so on. These include voluntary and professional fire brigades, the Fire Service, the Mountain Rescue Service of Slovenia – Mountain Rescue Service, the Slovenian Diving Association – Underwater Rescue Service, the Jamaica Union of Slovenia – the Jamaica Rescue Service and the Environmental and Other Accidents Rescue Service. This is how this amendment is now resolved and, of course, we will support it in some way under some other legislation. I agree here with my colleague Bandelli, we are political competitors, but I appreciate him as a businessman. I believe 156 doctors will be joined shortly by at least 100,000 entrepreneurs. You know what I'm talking about. Once again, what I said in the position of the Group of Members, ladies and gentlemen. The numbers are clear. Last year, in 2019, 96,000 vehicles were newly registered in Slovenia. Among these registered 96,000, not purchased, registered, there were only 10 vehicles more than €150,000. Is that possible? Yes, it is possible because such an arrangement is such that in fact people who are liable to tax are actually driven away from Slovenia and actually tells them explicitly, as colleague Bandelli told them what registrations he sees below in the garage house to register clearly outside the car. Outside. And now some want – especially on the far left, abnormal! – to maintain the existing solution. Who the hell are you rooting for? We're rooting for family budgets. When I was a child, we were in my birth village, far away in Prekmurje, which you abused yesterday so much and frowned on with unexistent facts, even more, with the absent names of mayors, that, because it's crazy, but let's leave. So, far away, in my birth village in Prekmurje, we separated two kinds of motor vehicles: first, trucks and second, luxury vehicles. Luxury, because then, at the time of my childhood, it really is a few decades ago, we called luxury cars to cars. Colleagues and colleagues, today a personal car is an emergency evil. I'd rather be without him, but then I can't function, at least as long as we have the public transport we have. It is therefore very important that the country actually goes to the front, on the one hand to the family budgets, and on the other hand actually encourages the purchase of new cars. Another simulation, some given by the secretary of state, let's see the payment of the DMV in Slovenia. Example: mid-priority family caravan, 2.0, diesel, year 2015, 126 grams per kilometer CO2, after NEDC – NEDC is by Slovenian, New European Driving Cycle - Euro 5, price abroad 10 thousand euros. Calculation for imports of 1. 1. 2021, when the WLP methodology is in place – in Slovenian this is a globally harmonised test procedure for passenger and light commercial vehicles – the current regulation, the current one, you will pay or you are 600 euros for this vehicle. Proposal from the Charles Government – €692. That's 15 percent more than the current arrangement. Current solution after 1. 1. When it is and because I know that this law will be passed, our Government's proposal is € 136. This means minus 77 percent according to the existing arrangement. And okay, because it's democratic for someone to object, okay, okay. We don't, we don't in New Slovenia because we care about the family budget and we don't want, ladies and gentlemen, the arrangements, as it is now, to make the so-called rich, yes, those who can afford a fat BMW car for 150 000 euros and more to keep you out of Slovenia to pay taxes, insurance premiums and so on and so on. I love my country. They should pay here because now that this law has been enacted, as the profession I quoted in the position has said, it is a European, modern law, an ecologically oriented law. That's what the profession says. They can be disagreed with. That's why we support this amendment and the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word has Jože Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'll start with this Article 17. On the Committee on Finance, I will say, even by the chairman of the Committee, we have been assured that this amendment, which we have tabled for the exemption of fire-fighting vehicles, is in place, but we have been given the task of completing and extending this amendment somehow. This is what we have done now by explaining what it looks like by means of the proposed amendment, that the tax on motor vehicles is exempt from the vehicle used to carry out the fire service, the mountain rescue service, the underwater rescue service, the cave rescue service and the protection and rescue services in the event of environmental and other accidents at sea. As referred to in Article 74, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters under the Official Journal 51/06. This amendment is now the one we have tabled and, of course, we expect it to be adopted as such. I would like to ask the distinguished Secretary of State further if he can answer what I have already pointed out in my position that when we adopt a new, so-called more environmentally friendly tax, the news has also come that the incentives for electric vehicles through the Eco Fund are declining right now. Let me just say it again. The full reason for such a decision should be that the scope of incentives has increased in recent years and that the prices of electric vehicles are falling. In comparison, I have, of course, given this Renault Twingo R80, according to which our calculations would now make it more costly to introduce this tax for up to EUR 2 000 500. That's one thing, I'll say. In parallel, I would also like to draw attention to what many citizens are warning us, the current owners and, of course, potential buyers, that the infrastructure does not in any way follow the expansion of electric cars, as there are also stories about getting up at three o'clock, four o'clock in the morning to put the car on this filling station so that they can even fill it. That's completely irrational. This is said to be what the state will do to make it more friendly and that electric car owners will also be able to use or charge cars with energy normally. Because if it doesn't follow, then it's all for nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I see there's still interest in the application. Please sign in. First he gets the word Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u68	Yes, thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members and Members! Christian Democrats believe in economic recovery and the motor vehicle tax realises our programming direction, and these are lower taxes. Last year, we collected about €45 million from the motor vehicle tax. Now we're only picking up 15 million after the new one. Thus, the Ministry's assessment also shows in this direction, the Ministry of Finance, that there will be more money in the family budgets. I don't know what's wrong here, what's not here to understand. There's gonna be 30 million more money left in people's wallet. This money, 30 million, we'll leave it with the families, we'll leave it with the family budgets. Dear Slovenian cars can be seen in us, but they have Slovak registrations. Even sometimes I was naive and I said this Porsche was probably from someone from the Slovak embassy. It's not. He was one of the Slovenians who registered his expensive car in Slovakia and paid all the taxes there. In Levica, where they absolutely do not understand this law, they continue to force our taxes on Slovakia to register expensive cars there. In 2019 we reregistered 96,000 vehicles in Slovenia, and more than 150 000 euros were only 10 vehicles. You heard right, 96 thousand vehicles were registered with us for a new one, and more than 150 thousand euros were only 10 vehicles. Of course I'm talking about those who were registered in Slovenia. The others were registered abroad, like in Slovakia. So the money goes to Slovakia's treasury. Money from registration of vehicles, vehicle taxes, registration and insurance costs shall thus remain abroad. After all these payments will remain in Slovenia, because those who have done so will simply not be paid any more and will remain in Slovenia. Also interesting is the subsidisation of the Eco Fund because I would like to say or point out that the Eco Fund still has old leadership, and we have not replaced it. Well, since the beginning of the year, the Eco Fund has subsidized 7 000 euros for an electric vehicle, and then reduced the subsidy to 6,000 euros in March or here. Look at the fraction, on Friday, when the motor vehicle law was passed on the board, the Eco Fund further reduced the subsidy from 6 000 to 4 000 EUR 500 and added a cap, not more than 20 percent of the value of the car. I take this as a guess to our government, because in New Slovenia we really run a smart environmental policy. We demand that the Eco Fund does not destroy the positive effects of tax reductions with its actions. But the fact is that the former government's proposal was the same law, I'm talking about the same law, and on average the former government's proposal would bring a 30 per cent higher burden, and that's a fact. In New Slovenia, we have a different approach, we defend the tax burdens of the economy and the tax burden of the population, and we introduce this law. Some of us are just running a green policy, while some others are running a red policy. As a firefighter, I am very pleased that the tax will be exempt from fire vehicles and also from civilian protection vehicles. This bill brings many miscalculations, and this proposal unfortunately brings too much populism on the part of the Levica party, who simply honks their mantra to relieve the rich in this country, which is one big fat lie. In Novi Slovenije we are for lower taxes and also for simplification of procedures, while in Levica we are for citizens to continue to register their expensive vehicles abroad. Dear citizens! Continue to listen to Levico and no one will have to register expensive cars in Slovenia, but we can all continue to drive the Red South. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Miha Kordish replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u70	In view of all this argument that we have just heard and is coming from the representative of the New Slovenia Party, I ask myself the following questions. Since this same party buys armor, each one costs more than a few million euros, they too will be at the defence department of these armored men for a few. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u71	Comrade Kordish, where did he not understand you correctly? Debate on military vehicles [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u72	Obviously, I was misunderstood at the point of what I was actually defending in relation to this law. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u73	The replica refers to your debate [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u74	Yes, of course. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u75	Where he didn't understand you, but he didn't. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u76	Apparently, because I've been given the impression that I don't know tax policy. Tax policy is very clear to me, and I am aware of any other tax book. Let's say the one that says it's easier for a camel to go through a sewing ear than a rich man to go to heaven. But you know what? In Slovenia, he will not have to, because Nova Slovenija will cut his taxes. They say the family budget. Yeah, yeah, but only if you're one percent of the richest in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u77	Kodriš, colleague of Kordiš, Replica Please read the definition of replica in the rules of procedure. [[…]] This is not a debate. If you want to discuss, sign up, you have time, not use replicas in a way that violates the rules of procedure. There's no need for that. We continue the debate. The word is from a colleague of Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. And have a good day again to all your colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state and others! I always advocate that for people, for our people, we can do the most if we understand each other here, cooperate, connect, put good proposals on the table and, with professional arguments, also justify ourselves. By no means, however, by the words of populism, as some prefer to use, use, and use words as they do at that given time. If today is appropriate for them to talk about an increase in taxes, they will adapt statistics and calculations to this, secondly they will talk about a reduction in taxes and will adjust statistics and calculations equally so that they can do very well in the debates of populism. That I am also a real man of integration and cooperation, on Friday he was tabled by one opposition party of the amendment, who opened the article and left an open article so that we can discuss it today. This is Article 17, which was opened in order to exempt the payment of taxes from voluntary firefighters. Since I am the man to connect, I have also told all coalition partners that this proposal is on the ground, but it is not comprehensive. At that time, I also warned Members of the LMŠ Party that they did not fully cover the release of rescue workers, mountain paramedics, cave rescuers, that they had released underwater paramedics, that they had released today but were still missing in their proposal for rescue guides, were still missing in their proposal for a unit for first-aid veterinary assistance, a unit and a service for radiological chemical and biological assistance, a unit for protection against unexploded killing agents, and so on. [[…]] You know, these units are also the key units available to us, the country at our disposal, when we urgently need them. It is not just firefighters and mountain rescuers who are the ones we need most urgently. Therefore, I will not be able to support the proposal of the Party of the List of Marjan Šarc. And as I say, I have been working all weekend on this proposal that we coalition partners, when we reached an agreement on Friday that we would table an amendment that would cover all of these services, all of these companies, all of these links, to be exempt from DMV payments when purchasing a vehicle, a new vehicle, or for the first time a registered vehicle in Slovenia. I will therefore support the amendment to Article 17, which is fully regulated. This isn't about populism, it's just that we didn't sit at the common table and make one amendment. But, as I say, fortunately, the coalition partners have sat at the common table and prepared their amendment, which I count on to be supported, and I expect all Members of this call to support it. If I go back a little further to the discussion of the others, as far as the abolition of the luxury tax is concerned. Look, when we talk about luxury taxes, there's no mistake, luxury taxes are paid only by those who buy extremely expensive vehicles. And the fact is that not only entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs who have this money, open businesses in other Member States of the European Union and register their vehicles and avoid paying taxes in Slovenia. I will read a message from a citizen who wrote it because I also pointed out at a board meeting that the system allows companies to avoid paying taxes such as rent a car due to these high taxes in Slovenia and wrote: "The cars we received from the Czech Republic could have been on Czech plates for one year. Most of them were returned to the Czech Republic after six months on tow trucks, but we were able to re-register them, which was smaller, after one year on Slovenian vehicles." Here I ask myself, why does Levica object to actually abolishing the luxury tax? Who's he doing a favor to? Who's doing a favor for a luxury tax actually to be abolished? Maybe foreign countries? Because these vehicles here are not just one vehicle for one household. If we look at the rent a cari. Rent a car service is big in Slovenia. That is to say, these vehicles are burdening our road infrastructure, our public treasury, avoiding tax, paying taxes, not one, I listed at least five in my position. And if we look at the tax scales. for two years, two years – I warned both the government, at the hearing of both ministers, both Dr. Bertoncl and Mr. Shirtzl, I drew attention to the amendment of this legislation, which is here today, and therefore I very much welcome it. Why? Because Dr. Bertonzel proposed a scale that would put the mass of our citizens and citizens in distress to pay more tax, more taxes when buying new vehicles. As the Secretary of State said: we should pay €249 on the scale; today, according to today's scale €66; for Panda €466, according to our existing 144 euro scale. And for golf, which almost every other household has, 650 euros if we do not adopt this law today or tomorrow. When we quote, yes, we can convert statistics as we see fit. Once we talk about values, once we talk about percentages, once we talk about high-value cars, once we talk about low-value cars. I ask myself, citizens and citizens whose vehicles we have more. Which cars? Where, what kind of vehicles do we all ride together? Yes, vehicles worth between 8,000 and 5,000 and 15,000 euros. The maximum mass of vehicles is in this ranking. And to these people and to these citizens and to the citizens today, I will reduce the duty by this law. For people. For the people! And electric vehicles won't have any more taxes. When we talk about electric vehicles, I rhetorically ask myself, really, environmentalally, carbon-free, they are the best right now, but from an environmental point of view, we ask ourselves if this is true. Is that true? Where are the batteries going? Did we ask ourselves what we're going to do with batteries, all the batteries, so many thousands of cars, so many million cars? How do we recycle them? Are we even going to? Where are we gonna put them? How much is that gonna cost? I don't even want to ask myself about the electrical infrastructure. Can you imagine having a block, 50 apartments, 50 cars, 50 electric cars? Where are we gonna put them? You're not gonna turn the lights on in the apartment either, because they're gonna use so much electricity. Not to mention that consent to electric chargers is almost impossible under the current legislation. Full approach. Yes, I agree, today electric vehicles are absolutely modern as environmentally sound vehicles. And there's something else I need to pour myself some clean wine. In addressing and preparing and adopting legislation, we must now have the main objective of helping the economy. We need to take decisions that will restart the wheel of the economy and bring us closer to the state we had before the pandemic, not to stop the economy. We must be aware that 40 000 citizens and citizens are employed in the automotive industry in Slovenia. Well, we're not just talking about Revoz. 100 large and medium-sized enterprises are purely linked to the automotive industry. Their suppliers, if we add them up, are in a total of 500 companies in Slovenia, which are connected to the automotive industry. And today 10,000 jobs are at risk because of the pandemic if we do not encourage the automotive industry to rotate the wheel economy in the automotive industry. If you've listened to the position I've made in Germany, the car industry has a 30% drop in revenue. And the clues are already forgiveness, forgiveness of people at the time of the epidemic! Together, France and Germany have agreed on a policy to help the whole automotive industry and have dedicated millions of dollars to this aid, only so that the bicycles do not stop. We must be aware that in German cars, almost every car has one component from Slovenia produced by our companies. And if cars don't sell anymore, then listen, we know what's next. So we don't have a session tomorrow to forgive people for not having a job. Today is the time, today we must adopt a policy that tomorrow there will be no forgiveness, that the wheels will spin. That is why I consider the proposed law a good law. As a very good marriage, not a populist one, but a fine marriage for the circumstances. The law is exactly what I've been advocating for for two years, so I'll be happy to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Jože Lenart's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u80	Mr President, if you please, I would turn this replica into a debate if you would allow it then.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u81	In the next round.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u82	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u83	Yeah, sure. The next one gets the word Dusan Shisko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u84	Thank you, Chairman. I didn't mean to sign up because I already said some things in my position, but because of the Members' debates, I thought about it and applied, and I'm going to start with this right away. You're all talking about these cars that are registered abroad. Now you can give me a good explanation and explain it to all citizens and citizens. You can drive a car abroad with a foreign registration if you have a business there. Now you tell me, as I said in my position, whether someone controls these cars, or is it straw companies that just take the commission to register, buy the car in Germany, go to the Czech Republic, Slovakia, register and bring yourself here. In my position, I made it clear that Furs and the police are not doing their job in this area. I'll give you an example. A colleague bought a car in Germany last year, brought all the papers, and Furs is still checking where he bought this car today. He's checking in today! And to be able to register it, he paid 5,000 euros more and they told him on Furs when we get the documents, you'll get refunded or register the car for every 14 days. And that's the problem in Slovenia. Then forward, I have not heard from anyone today what this law will bring to the owners who bought a 100 000-euro car last year, worth some 80,000 euros after one year. This same car, which was 100,000 euros last year, will be $80,000 under this new law. So, what did we do? We'll have used vehicles full, the price of used vehicles will fall. You'll have to start thinking about whether the store houses will even take into account the old car and if it pays someone to put such a car in the account or the state will start thinking about the car waste so that the cars can get in there. Because if memory doesn't fool me when the car is 12 years old, you have to take it to the tech twice a year. We're gonna have a lot of old cars, just like some of our colleagues said they wouldn't be able to afford a new car. Next time I remember, my head hurts. We're talking about some ecological Slovenia. Everything's fine and fine. You suspended the ecological subsidy for hybrid vehicles because you reduced emissions from 115 to 80. What's the matter with you people?? We would like to have a green Slovenia on the one hand, and on the other hand prevent people from buying hybrid vehicles. I hope so, or I don't know which government did it, so you can think carefully about it and bring back hybrid vehicle subsidies. So I would really like an answer — today the secretary of state is here — what you will do with used vehicles. Those owners who wanted to sell the car that they bought last year — or the ones they bought last year — gave a lot for it. What is the cost or price of this vehicle? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The next one gets the word of Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. I am listening to this, and if a Martian looks at us, which can translate into or from Slovenian, it has probably come to the conclusion that the biggest development challenge is Slovenia, but we will be able to buy cars that will cost over 100,000 euros and whether we will pay as little tax for it as possible. In some societies, which are different from Slovenia, which think themselves, taxes are development guides. Unfortunately, that's not the case with us. I say a lot of times in a joke, but quite seriously – yes, I'm for massages, massages for everyone, but as a public means of transport, because I like good design. And if I'm personal, of course, because of these measures, which are, I've been forcibly mobilized for the last six months, I've had to buy a car, I've done 15,000 kilometers, and 15 grand is the maximum money I can get for a used car. But you know. And as long as we're Members and Members or most of you are obsessed with cars and as long as entrepreneurs are so obsessed with expensive cars, we're in trouble, or I'll say at home: developmental in the dick. Yes, my dears, but I don't mean that Austrian Prime Minister. If I were a successful entrepreneur as a colleague of Marko's, I'd be driving a piper on the shaft, not a car, because time counts less pollution. If we were serious about taxes, we would also make such a tax policy that a successful entrepreneur, instead of buying expensive cars, would have a collection of quality Slovenian graphics. Or I would buy three paintings of Mrs Dobrajc, which I highly appreciate as a painter, or Joni Konješek or someone else, a third. Today, when I rushed to the checkout after a few meetings from Maribor, a book on the radio was accidentally published in the year B by the journalist Videmška. And colleague Šisko said nicely, on the one hand, I would be boutique five-star, green, touristic, upper ass Slovenia, but on the other hand we will now have the main, but we will be able to buy some makina that will have 4 liters, and it will be beautiful brunette. I mean, it doesn't work together. Keep telling the story. Now that you say it, 29 million will be left. First of all, this assumption is double wrong. It's wrong because fewer cars are going to sell, and next year this will be lower. And of course you have to ask yourself here who and how. When a longtime head of the parliamentary group and a Member with a lot more internships than I say a personal car is necessarily evil, we have to ask ourselves why. Because of irresponsible wrong policies! Not only is it necessarily evil. Four-fifths of the pensioners and the pensioners that everyone loves so much about, you're fighting as much as you are for them, the car's too expensive. Good half of the employees are car costs too much. My mother has 500 euros in pension, and I think that's where we talked once. Buying some kinder egg from a car, a helmet to protect it, it's three years of fucking retirement just for that. That's what we should be talking about. But you know. Now Christian Democrats are for citizens. How much? For 300 citizens? Maybe the Slovaks will drop the price a little bit. And if we're talking about the Slovaks, I want the epidemic to be as successful as the Slovaks who don't have a million over a thousand deaths with or because of covid, but they have them out there — how many? 230, something like that last time I watched. In short, they're four times better. Now we should say to the whole Parliament, if we are serious about green Slovenia, we will strive to register only 60,000 cars in Slovenia in 2025 and from this we will have appropriate tax policies to be so many and so many electric cars. I would like to talk today about the electrification of Slovenian railways, but I am not against buying such diesels new, as they have now bought, and these are almost rolls-royce between trains. I'm glad that when we get caught and the electricity goes down, the diesel train can keep going. But here, I'm looking at a colleague of the vice president, there, to your ends – because that's for Guinness's book, how much we're talking about that railroad together. This is for, he won't say to shoot himself because one lady warned me what this Duck is saying so much about it. You know, we should ask each other a question. In Norway, in the 1990s, all parliamentary parties sat down, and a few extraparliamentary parties, with the exception of some Grimes, all realized that climate change was going on, and decided what was going on. Of course you'll say, they have oil, we don't have oil. There's a little hypocrisy there, and even if we had that oil, those pennies would actually start. You know, there is now a lot of work to do around this law, and the background of this directive is very clear. Some of Europe's key largest countries have also fallen slightly asleep in development, made cars and would like to sell them, and remain on the lager. Go to Google watch, you'll see some airports abandoned, filled with this kind of flat. We should actually think about how to think of the knowledge of the Slovenian car cluster tomorrow. Otherwise, what a fellow widower said will strike us in the head too quickly. You know, now you're getting a lot of bloated about this in the country where we have a genius, who usually has a Mazda5 like that, fills up the batteries and drives to Dubrovnik. We have another genius – as it is written, Mr Detela – who is one of the biggest experts in the development of electric motors. I'd like to talk about it here instead of this cheap populism on both sides of the street that you're going to. How are we going to change Slovenia so the car won't be necessarily evil anymore? How will I establish more appropriate public passenger transport, of course aware of the extraordinary dispersion of the settlement in Slovenia. Even now, we have been working from home to the forces of opportunity, and it is not true what Mr. King recorded, but he took it away, and the folk was flabbergasting as they watched it. We should also think about where to locate some activity, so that there will be fewer of these paths. We should also think that we are not all slaves of Luke Koper — with all due respect for Luke Koper. Luke Koper's cargo doesn't move on the edge of the karst, and then, I don't know, he goes out of Budapest. Robbery all over Slovenia. The key air pollutant is traffic. Let's talk about this. On the one hand, we will roll green, on the other hand, let's move these 127 cars, which will be registered to a new car in Slovenia, will be inside cars more polluting than one hybrid driven by a colleague Šiško. Let's talk about it, let's think about it. I mean, I'm already sick of this empty populism. If we're all for pensioners, why do pensioners have to buy a car, not just pensioners? Someone from my birthland White Country, if they have to go over Gorjani, across the hill to go to the checkout, as well as some colleagues; here I see a colleague here, New Slovenia, who we talked about, and they are even more places, I will not say remote, but neglected, like where you are at home, there are two parents, each in their closet, one child works, another child has to go to college, and someone in the countryside has to buy four cars. These are the problems. Let's start thinking about these problems in a serious way, not inflatable here, wow we're full for business, leftful for business is not. When I listened to you, I remembered as a student with Kisak Dušan Isich hitchhiking – when it was, in 1990 – in the Netherlands and stopped us by a gentleman. We start talking, a doctorate in economics, a doctorate in sociology, he wasn't defending him, he was a successful entrepreneur, he put us in there with a 25-year-old car, he had some parts in the back, and I thought it was his business. He said: “No, no, I’m fine with this car, I like it, I’ve already changed the engine twice, I’m going to change, a little bit, some baldies. ” [[…]] Wait, wait, wait, if you're a serious thinker, successful entrepreneur, then Ducks we're the original manufacturers of hats from the Czech Republic or Moravian, right, you're not gonna fuck 100 grand or 150 grand in the car I'm probably gonna put it in the company, in development, or I'm gonna put it in the local community, or I'm gonna turn it in to my employees. [[…]] But you know. Here, too, we have a very distorted development model of our society, which we need to change. And now that I'm listening to you, it seems to me that you don't even understand it, let alone think deeply. And for the end of the day, two more personal matters. I put my maserati in books. Since I was 15, I've been buying them, the interest rate I've studied with, whatever lady I've been living with, she's been fighting me about it, but of course I like BWM 328, year 37 and 38, 36. If Franci Beznik were here, he'd know what we're talking about, wouldn't he? That's one of my favorite cars, and that car has less than a two-liter machine, and I think the first one had hydraulics. I also like Jaguar type 3 very much – my birth anniversary, 1969 – but with the ease of living, somehow, without it. As far as firefighters are concerned, I have to take this subject seriously once. That's how you all throw yourself around firefighters. And firefighting is one of the few beautiful things in Slovenia where we don't fight, and where they fight somewhere, there, in Pojbic's end, something fights, let's get a little less bloated about it. [[…]] And I'm telling you this as a person who was born in a branch elementary school, which warred a firehouse, I'm telling you this as a man who was with Fundechka Stefka, she's the youngest firefighter, I'm the youngest firefighter of the Voluntary Fire Company, Vinica, and even more. You 89 have immunity, you took it from me. I'm the great-grandson of Anton Duck. September 18th, one day when you are celebrating Janez Janša's birthday, in 1869, firefighting started in Metlika, and I am not spreading about it. If I were probably on the other side of the street, I'd put it up and down. As far as firefighting is concerned, I don't know. I can send my buddy Pojbič in uniform with Mahnič for a burek! [[…]] Let us calm down a little while, and let us begin to think at last. Here I agree with my colleague the Widow. But the way you're now talking about this law, about cars, the vast majority of you, and this is a development model, my dears, the boomers of the '50s, '60s. This is not a development model for a country in December 2020, when on the one hand it will speak green and on the other. However, the fact is that as regards the implementation of so-called green policies, climate commitments, Slovenia is one of the worst members of the EU, and we will solve this by transferring some cars to Slovenia, at the same time as degrading these cars. You know, as long as there's 90 of us in the National Assembly, at least 60 of you, watching what kind of car you're going to have, as long as there's people in this National Assembly who get a mandate, they're going to go buy a good car right now, and then we can't have an election because they have it on the lease or because we have to pay it, by then there's going to be more and more educated grandchildren and grandchildren. And my colleague Lisca, I want our children to be here -- you have three sons, I read on your portal by accident -- and we live here, and we don't want to be obsessed with cars. Let them be, I don't know, obsessed with robotics, geronto technology, mechanics, things like that. So that they can stay in their home place, have quality public education, health care, culture. Yes! Not now, dear God, but now this is the most important thing in the world for Slovenia is that someone will be able to buy a massage and pay less for it. And they weren't lobbyists with me, but they were one of my favorite cars. The man of my dimensions starts his car with a GT. It's that simple. For me the car trains are Slovenian railways and I hope to be able to ride them again soon. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u87	Thank you very much. For the future, Comrade Trček, please be with your colleagues who sit in the hall or are not here, respectfully. Another time. I expect you to put some clever subject on the agenda of the National Assembly meeting, because you're the only one who can talk about smart things. What kind of written product I'm asking of you. On these subjects which are, I suggest you limit yourself to content. [[advertising from the hall]] Of course you will. So be careful with such things. If you have better contents, suggest them and we will discuss them so that we do not just talk nonsense in the National Assembly. Mr. Duck, you have the floor for procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u88	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, you have been in the National Assembly for 20 years, and you know very well that you have now violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You're in charge of the session, you're not commenting. When you want to comment, to Parliament with me, sit between us and apply for a debate. That's my procedural proposal. Don't be afraid, there'll be my written products too. I was not offensive to any colleague, I just seriously warned also in the light of our children and their children's children that the development model which most Slovenian politics currently think is [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u89	Prepare the text. That's one. And second of all, Comrade Trček, just tell me, which article of the Rules of Procedure did I violate? Not one. [[advertising from the hall]] I'll give you my word, but not one, because I have certain rights to be in charge of the session. Here you go, Mr. Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u90	You have a duty, not a right. You have violated long-standing practice so that until Janša's government has arrived, the chairman will not comment. The President shall hold a meeting. Secondly, in parliamentary practice, reference has never had to be made to an article when you request it on a procedural basis. But I can start doing this because you know, buddy, I'm not so bad here. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u91	If you refer to the Rules of Procedure, then quote the Rules of Procedure! [[advertising from the hall]] Of course, it is necessary because the infringement of the Rules of Procedure is related to an infringement of the Article and the President has rights under this Rules of Procedure, direct. You can read them. I left you out of politeness because I didn't want to disturb you, but I suggest you move forward, be respectful of your colleagues. No, they're not, I don't know, but there's some bottles, and I don't know what's next, they're here on the same principles as you, that's one. And then there's the contents. If you challenge where they are invested and who are on the agenda, prepare yours; better, quality, content, scientific or whatever you want. Procedurally, Mr. Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u92	You are still in breach of the Rules of Procedure and the President has responsibilities, not some right. And there is no record in the Rules of Procedure that I should say the article to which I refer. As a long-standing Member, if you want to do this, you have the Rules of Procedure Commission, and make this change. That's when you can ask me, not until then. That concludes it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u93	It only says here directly: “A Member who wants to talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure” not parliamentary practice, but the Rules of Procedure and you have violated this provision. I propose that we proceed with the debate. The next one has the word Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u94	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, the well-respected minister who's already waiting here. Good bye to all of you! I will stick to what has been said both by the President and by the predecessor. Let's talk in concrete terms, but then we've been hearing for almost 15 minutes about development work and, as our southern neighbours would say, about everything and stuff. I still think we're talking mainly about the Motor Vehicle Tax Act. For those of you who have talked about everything today, I would suggest – and I will therefore just read that they will know what we are talking about: "To the benefit of the taxpayers to promote consumption and thus to support the entire economic sector from domestic suppliers of components for the automotive industry, manufacturers in Slovenia to vehicle suppliers, and so further, it is necessary to prevent a significant increase in vehicle taxation which could come from 1. 1. 2021.’ So in favour of the taxpayers – about this a little later on in terms of taxes; promoting consumption, which will be urgently needed after the end of this epidemic; with the support of the entire economic sector – Slovenia is known to be one of the largest, or not according to the financial possibility, but given our smallness of the country, how much we invest in the automotive industry of major global companies. In my congregation there is one of the major companies that I will say is not that it does not work for all European car industry giants. I believe that this law will come to them too, not only will they watch what is happening in Germany or France with the automotive industry, but this country will also listen to it. Allow me to begin by turning to the amendment itself, a few things. Personally, I have been defending my entire life, from a college where I was also quite unkindly accepted by certain professors, about two thesis on taxes. One is: low taxes and high penalties. But we do have high taxes. Instead of having some general European comparable standards, no, we like high taxes. And the second principle that I adhere to is that if we have lower taxes, let us give more to people and take more to a country that is — and I hope that we can all agree, regardless of authority — too wasteful. Just because of things that don't come into laws like this, what some people have said is happening today. Not only do cars register in Slovakia or in more tax-acceptable countries, people move physically, but in particular businesses move their legal identity to countries such as Slovakia. Why do I mention Slovakia more than once? I am already a second member of the group of friendships with Slovakia, and I must say that I admire them at least in the field of economy. They know exactly what Mr Trček is fantasizing – a development model. When, I think, six years ago, we had a meeting with the Czech and Slovak ambassadors, they could list every five matters that mattered to them, and in all, the promotion of a low-tax economy. After that, Members of the Friendship Group asked us what your development models were in Slovenia, but we listed from Ministry A to Ministry Z, and within the Ministry of Economy we said energy, tourism, wine growing. In short, it's not that it's not, it's all about priorities. But we have nothing but serious priorities. In short, I support this law only from this point of view, as I said, that we are following a low-tax policy and that something remains and does not fit in with any logic, but what if there is now one who wants to buy some average car, golf which is believed to be the most in Slovenia, and it saves 650 euros, but this rich one cannot save anything. 650 euros will be saved on this tax by the customer in Slovenia from 1. First, if he decides to buy golf. 650 euros. Where and how he will earn them is his business. I hope he earned them fair, hard work and no tax evasion. But 650 euros will be known to him or his family in his wallet. And then we listen, "Yes, then what!" That's not true. Ask people, 650 euros, how much does this mean to people who are supposed to be referred to by those who oppose it. The second thing is, I was there in 2012 when we adopted the so-called luxury tax at the time of the crisis. Many people did not like this tax because I personally – once again – am convinced that with high taxes part of stupidity, but we said, OK, if it is war, it is war for everyone. At that time, we adopted a luxury tax, which is being abolished by this law. For too long, this luxury tax has been in force, but the left governments, which have so talked about how Zuyf and all the other measures from those extraordinary situations should be lifted, have neither the courage nor perhaps the knowledge that such anomalies would eliminate in normal situations. In short, we are approaching what is known in Europe as normality. Here, about the finances, they say it's impossible to measure. And I think the numbers are going to be even bigger. I think that people are now in a frenzy and in view of what is happening both within the health situation in Europe and in the world, when we are all waiting together for the rescue and ending of this epidemic, that people will be happy to see what has changed at this time and what can now be better and better afforded than they would have been during the epidemic or before the epidemic. We want to or we don't want to, we don't have a car to live without, but we can dream of no super-development future. That's what people are talking about, basically, who have some kind of weird logic. They're up against all the electricity. Whether it is from TES, from the nuclear power plant, is hydro, wind, solar; in short, they are all against electricity, and they promote the 100% representation of the automotive industry with electric cars. It's not going together! We have even one of the former heads of government who said, by 2030, if I think of it by 2050, we will all be driving electric vehicles in Slovenia. To this President of the Government, no one has given such a ticket to the table to ask him if he even knows what a megawatt hour is, what a kilowatt hour we produce in Slovenia, how much CO2 we pay in full and so far, that I will not start with the field of motor vehicles on energy, which we often talk about too often, and few people know the matter. In short, in order to eliminate the luxury tax, I think it's high time for this to work out. The next thing that was discussed today was the removal of administrative barriers. Whoever bought the car is scared. First you have problems with your previous car, then you have problems with your new car, and then you have problems with your buyer, whether he's a natural or a legal person, and then you have insurance, and then you have the payment of that, and the payment of that. There are quite a few matters concerning the administrative barriers. In short, what we have also announced in this government is that we will start doing two things: lower taxes and less administrative barriers. Two birds at one stroke in one marriage, one of whom is said to be scattered. They're the ones who're blowing up. Only if the opponents of the law read the introduction in removing administrative obstacles could they say, well, something clever about this area, but of course I believe that to a number of members of the left political field, the issue of eliminating administrative obstacles is either not a priority or it does not understand it or does not even want to encourage it. Now with regard to environmental objectives. We know green Europe and I don't know what Europe is, but we are coming into European comparable environmental models for calculating taxes on motor vehicles. But again, some have problems, so I'm really surprised whether the anti-janche government is really discussing or not reading the laws. And now to the amendment, which today was much too small a speech. From this place also praises those who have already considered on the committee this direction of exemption from the tax on motor vehicles, especially what the coalition MPs are led by Mrs Matea, who I know has really fought not only within coalition parties, but also with other stakeholders to do so. Personally, when we talk about exempting motor vehicle tax for such important functions as this amendment does, we speak little. All of us, yes, like to boast with firefighters, if we are not firefighters already – or I am the first stage of the interrogation — or we are working with them, with presidents and so on, thanking them, unfortunately, too many times for the various tasks they perform to do so. A profound gift to the proponents and to all of us who hope to support this unanimously. Civil protection — in these times without it, no mayor imagines a serious response to the epidemic, and we can also thank them by exempting them from the tax on motor vehicles in the future. Yes, maritime service, mountain rescue service, which is not exactly from my local area, but, for example, the First Veterinary Unit – they have cars. How will we thank them? Not only during this time of epidemics, but they also help in general. When, above all, on the Committee on Agriculture, we talk several times about animal protection also in the field of finance, we can say, look, we have also given you something to provide our domestic animals, tax exemptions on motor vehicles. In short, so many good things, because I say once again, from lower taxes, abolition of luxury taxes, better ecological acceptability, exemption from motor vehicle taxes for those services that are really real services. And I say, those true NGOs, in addition to perhaps another Red Cross and Karitas, we thank those for their underpaid unselfish work, by setting an exception in this law, but I hope that we all agree with it that exemption from motor vehicles is not a big thank you, but a small mosaic to thank all these organizations, what they are doing for us not only at this time, but also in general. In short, I will support both the amendment of the coalition groups and the bill. I appeal to the present Secretary of State to come to the National Assembly on several occasions with such laws that, for the first time, lower taxes and, secondly, remove administrative obstacles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I see that there is still an interest in the debate, so I will open the application procedure. Here you go, sign up! The word is Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate is once again overheated by the atmosphere and again wants to show up some in a different light than the fact in the law itself. Of course, the law leaves 30 million euros to family budgets throughout Slovenia. This means that anyone, every family who buys a car, will save a few euros. It seems to me that this is the right policy, because all we see is that there is more to family budgets. Everywhere, all the laws they adopt make it easier for families to live. I will not forget when we discussed it in 2012, but I think that Zujf was also another law, mentioned by his colleague Lisec, on the luxury of what was at the time most attractive in the country, as far as family social policy is concerned. It was that people with good cars registered abroad took children to kindergarten and had free kindergarten for the surface. That was back then, back in 2012, and a few years earlier, certainly a big problem. Today, we can see that the country is able, given the taxation of expensive better cars, to take a step forward here and to allow European comparable taxes to register such a car in Slovenia. Once again, from €45 million to €15 million of tax collection in this area, I stress that it is falling by 30 million. Once again, 30 million euros remain in taxpayers' pockets. I think it's very important because I would say, just as we had the Law on the Financial Dismantling of the Communities and all the other things, it's going in the direction of people remaining more. You are certainly familiar with my fellow Members, as well as the wider Slovenia, with the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia until 2030. It said that in 2030 Slovenia will be in a direction to register as many as 200,000 electric vehicles in Slovenia. I support myself. Why do I support you? Because I believe that they are in some way more friendly, even for those who drive daily, I will say that they may do more than 100 kilometers a day because they are less burdened by the environment, because they are in some way more friendly and, of course, not least, there is some euro left in the wallet of what they might have. Therefore, I think it is necessary to understand here that aid or eco-subsidies in this area should also be maintained at a level such as that of spring. I think and I hope that this government will succeed in remaining this aid, a grant of the Eco Fund of €6,000, although I am sorry that it has suddenly dropped from €7,000 to €6,000 in springtime. It is said that in Slovenia we should see that family, social policy in Slovenia is such that taxes are low and everyone pays them. This is particularly so in view of the fact that people would not have an interest in hiding their property; what was happening for a time when the Ministry of Labour was headed by the then Copač-Drakov. It seems to me that that's when people came in, because of, I'll say, higher taxes, lower aids, they were simply raising their children's savings. I don't think that was the right policy. That wasn't the real policy. I really don't know why there are only 10 cars here today that we have in Slovenia that are more expensive, about 150 000 euros, and if there are 10, I don't know why you're not finally against buying cars like that in Levica. Because it is you who should encourage them, because I understand from your discussions that you will nationalise all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u98	Thank you very much again. A bit of a tragic debate was held in the performance of colleague Mateya Udovč. Of course, it was in place primarily with regard to the amendments to Article 17, but it is intended primarily for the proposer of this Motor Vehicle Tax Act, or, colleague, for you, that you did not already include firefighters and rescue vehicles in the bill itself. Yes, it is unheard of that you forgot about firefighters, rescue mountain services, rescue services, safety and rescue services in the event of ecological and other accidents at sea, which we have also completed in today's amendment. And that's how dogs' guides belong to paramedics. Yes, even in LMŠ we have taken tragically that in coalition and above all, colleague Matei, you have forgotten about our firefighters and our paramedics. You know, our amendment proposal was also because the tax is linked to firefighters and rescue workers, so it goes from one pocket to another pocket, so we work on rationalisation, on rescues and on the direction of demobilization. That's what I'm saying, isn't it, that's going to have an impact on the burdens of the congregations. We know that firefighters are cofinanced by this area of the congregation, and this is an additional burden on the congregations, and of course it is a welcome one. Don't mind me saying a little bit in your tone of mind, but what Dr. Duck has already said is what we all want to do on one side, I don't know what to draw from it. Of course, the proposal is welcome, but look, in the LMŠ we warned and tabled these amendments because you forgot about it, and now we have both upgraded. This fact, when we come to this conclusion, will further burden the congregations, and we will not harm the country because it is the cycle of these taxes, as far as firefighters and rescue workers are concerned. This is the fact that we have to tell ourselves not to again not to know what we are discussing. But I just want to say, speaking of which, once again, this fact. Any such change around taxes brings some systemic changes in many areas or impacts on all users and always raises the question of whether we have done everything best, justly, if everything is in place. Above all, it is important that in such a comprehensive picture we not only look at taxes from this point of view, but also comprehensively then at consumption, at production alone, what is involved. In this way, I also somehow expect the Ministry to approach things, and we should be very clear in this debate, but not that we are now going down, either one side or one in one direction, the other in the other; we need to see a complete picture. This, then, is what some society brings to one economy development and progress. This is important. This is said not only in the short term and for the good or the bad for the individual, but especially in the long run to see where our society is going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Replica, Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Look, my colleague Lenart misunderstood me in my debate, and I need to replicate. In fact, he obviously did not listen well to my debate when I talked about the integration and cooperation of all Members so that we can do it together, so that we can do more together for citizens and citizens. And I commended this amendment, which was tabled on Friday, as he has just said, because the bill-maker may not even have forgotten, but it did not occur to him that he could relieve the public services here for protection, rescue and assistance and the entire civil protection of the DMV tax. He misunderstood me when I explained why I couldn't support their amendment. In fact, Article 74 of the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents does not cover rescue dog guides and in 2010 there was an error in this law and they were not covered by Article 74. I have found this because I have spoken to all the chiefs, the presidents of the unions, the various organisations, all weekend, to harmonise the amendment so that some target groups will not really be forgotten. On Tuesday, it is said yesterday, we came to a common conclusion that we will not forget any only if we take Article 74 as a whole and Article 76 as a whole of the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents. However, I do not object, I have certainly not forgotten, nor the firefighters and no rescue workers, but I just wanted to point out that I cannot support the amendment of the LMŠ because it does not cover all these societies, associations and organizations that work for people, so that we can all live together more easily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word is Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! I am very glad that we are considering this law, that the Government has presented it to us, a law on taxation on motor vehicles. Now it must be made clear and loudly that the government of John Janša is lowering taxes. The government of Janez Janša also made sure that historical fuel prices were the lowest and so on. In short, there are concrete measures here, despite the fact that we have an epidemic, that this issue must also be addressed. I believe some people find this hard to admit. From these discussions, which we have just heard, it has been noted that many or most of them do not support the extreme, extreme part of the left option or opposition. It does not support the reduction of taxes, which I am very sorry about and to some extent incomprehensible. In this place, I must also commend today's debate by Mr Bandelli, a member of the SAB, who has made it very clear and also told the leftist party that clearly these things are unclear or that they are not. I think they got it right, so I'm not going to repeat myself at this point. If anyone is against lowering taxes, keeping more money in people’s pockets, leaving more money for families, then it is important to ask what is wrong with these people. Something's not right. They talk about poverty nonstop, every other word is that, despite the fact that their predecessors, the ones they are celebrating today, also with those totalitarian symbols that some wear on masks here in Parliament, which is beneath every level and every criticism and in the European Union a unique case. Those who have caused poverty now talk about poverty and are against tax cuts. Understand who can. It's not working out for me. In every good thing that this government is trying to do, it is necessary to find an immediate matter on which we will then circumcise ourselves and try to divert attention and people to the point that it is not true what the Government is doing, that it is bad, that it will not be good for people, and try to get all the nice heights if only it could be done. Here, in this case, about taxes on motor vehicles, of course, they grabbed those 10 cars that are of a higher price class, which are, of course, in the client's left hand, and elsewhere, you know, they can afford it. We know that they don't like craftsmen, they don't like rich people, they don't like those who work, they also earn something with hard work and, of course, they're also unhappiness and, of course, with that option that they have to be pushed into the sea with bayonets and so on, then they build up in debates for everyone, completely in every matter. That's what people are watching, because that's what people are watching, and people are following us, and I don't believe anyone else is naive enough to fall for that kind of stuff. Now I don't know why these people who can afford and can buy more expensive cars would allow me to pay taxes in Slovenia. Otherwise there will be a slightly lower tax, but then so many of these cars will buy with us, not in Slovakia, not in Germany, not in Switzerland, I don't know where the more favourable conditions are, but they will do it with us and will also raise more money for those who have you full of mouths to give them more. Let's make this happen, and this law makes it possible. I don't know why you're against some of this being made by firefighters, Civil Protection and so on. I just can't understand it. Let us contemplate the kind of things that are good for society, for the state of the country, for the population, for the families, for the individuals, for the poor, for the rich, for the NGOs. Here, too, I must thank Mrs Matei, Members, who is actually trying, if only we can go this way together. And then you don't have to make a fool out of it, but you do it there, and I don't know what to do; I mean, it's below every level. Even when I'm listening to some doctors who are doctors, I don't know if they're just in the title when they're using as vulgar words as I used to listen to Dr. Duck, that it's terrible -- I hope kids aren't looking at these parliamentary matters. I will certainly be happy to support this intention of the government. I believe that there will be a great deal of such moves in the future that the Government, this government, is going in the right direction, that is, helping people, helping the economy, decommissioning, reducing taxes, debirocraticisation and so on. I will gladly support this tax, and also all amendments, and I believe that we will all have some of it, both the state budget and the population, that is, people, families, individuals, socially threatened; all those who have made it harder to buy cars will now have the opportunity to pay the lower tax we have heard. I believe that people will not fall for those cartoons, but the lies that the party, especially the Left, launches through the media, through social networks, to try to confuse people in one way or another, if this government of Janez Janša does not do well. Even if it lowers taxes, it's not good, even if the lowest price is gasoline, fuel, oil, not good. I think it's a shame that we have such a long, fruitless debate. Of course, I allow the opportunity for each person to tell his or her own story, to have his or her own opinion, but to be within some realistic framework, not to pretend, not to be deceived, not to lie, not to throw pollen under his or her feet, and so on. I, if only I, even in the previous government, have always supported the good things even in the debates and somehow I do not understand, I do not understand that right now every single thing has to be bombarded to the end and people, in particular, try to convince people that it is not already true what the Government is doing. Also, if the Secretary of State says the same thing five times, there the Member with the totalitarian symbol will tell her five times the same thing back, which is totally not true. That's how I'm happy to support this marriage and the amendments as well. Thank you very much for your words, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u103	Thank you very much. It's a debate. Okay, anybody else want some? Anybody else want to sign up? No, no, no. Then Micah Kordish has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, chairman. Apparently, who lies to you not only in the client trumpet Nova24 TV, but also in today's session of the National Assembly. Unfortunately, this has become more a rule in the last eight months than an exception. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u105	My friend, I'm going to warn you as much as Mr. Duck. Be polite and respectful to fellow Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u106	I'm polite and respectful to my colleagues. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u107	Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u108	Members, much more than you, President, are coming to me. [[…]] Although [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u109	I'm warning you. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u110	I'm completely corrected. [[…]] You don't have any business grounds to give me a reminder. Would you like me to continue my proper discussion now, if I may be the chairman?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u111	Here you go, according to the darkness. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u112	Great. Praise Jesus. In short, whoever is lying to you also today at the consideration of the tax law on motor vehicles, of course in the coalition and the government have absolutely no argument to defend their intention to tax luxury, that is the most luxurious vehicles for the richest in this society. And because they're defending the indisputable and because they have no argument to do so, they're interfering with the tactics of attacking everyone we stand in the way and the tactics of lying. I'll just go after the list of all these actors. We can start with the government. The government itself states in the definition of the law that the key reason for changing the tax on motor vehicles is that rich taxes are being taxed either by evasion or by avoiding their payment. This is written quite directly in the law, as prepared by the Government, because they walk their luxury vehicles for €70,000, for €150,000, before the State Secretary spoke about Porsche for €190,000, registering abroad. Why? Because in the Republic of Slovenia, where they work, in the Republic of Slovenia, where they have a doctor, the roads they use are a shame to pay taxes. Out of pure greed, they buy a luxury car for 150 000 euros and go register it with Slovakia. At the same time as the government writes in the law that this tax on luxury cars will result in a 30 million drop in the state budget, this is our common bag of money from which health is also financed, for example, claims that the tax will increase registrations, thus making more money flowing into the state treasury. Yes, then, the financial effects of the law should be neutral or even positive. We should collect more taxes, no less, and there'll be a 30-million-dollar hole. In short, we find our first lie in the very description of the law prepared by the Government. Another lie is the claim that this taxation of luxury cars for the rich will somehow lead to a green society or that this is being taken within the framework of green measures. Ladies and gentlemen, whoever wants to introduce green measures in logistics will be setting up railway tracks and buying buses. Pika, it's over. This last thing that we can call a green measure in transport is, however, lowering taxes on luxury cars, which are already the most difficult, most wasteful and environmentally burdensome. It's a lot more than any easier vehicles. In short, the claim that this tax leave is for the deformed rich for a green policy is simply a lie. Especially if we know that the current tax on motor vehicles takes into account not only the category of car price but also the category of emissions. Next. The next lie I would like to point out is the Party of the Modern Centre, or their Igor Zorčič, who chaired the meeting until recently and who claimed that somehow I, Miha Kordiš, Member of the Left, stereotyping the rich and that I should not interfere with stereotypes, if it is not appropriate, and that the rich do not hide taxes that I am going to do. Ugly, ugly Kordish! But, ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly what the Government wrote in its own law; the rich cheat, the rich hide taxes, avoid payment, by going after registration in Slovakia. And of course, instead of closing these tax jurisdictions, the government, instead of persecuting them, writes them legislation that suits them and legalizes their tax evasion. Shameful. At the same time, Furs is chasing every poor man who has missed a 50-euro position, a single entrepreneur, in fact, who is a pretzel worker. However, those who can buy a car for 70,000 euros, for 150 000 euros, must write a special law for them to pass the 70,000-euro tax or the 40,000-euro tax that would be owed to society at the time of such purchase. I would like to continue with New Slovenia, which obviously has a propaganda line today to defend this tax burden on the super-rich for their car luscuse, if this is about charging state budgets. This is the 30 million that the state budget will lose, but it will translate into family budgets and thus find funds to stimulate family budgets. What they forgot to say is that this is really stimulating funds for family budgets, but only if such a family falls into the category of 1 percent of the richest. 99 per cent of all others will draw this short, including us Members, but we have very well-paid jobs, but we cannot dream of such a category of luxury vehicles. Not to complain, I bought my first car two months ago, and I gave two thousand euros for it, and it's 17 years old. In fact, I don’t care about cars, but I’m much more interested in buses or quality public transportation. In short, the family budget is all on the rich, it is a government priority that it deals with, and it will reward these budgets with 30 million euros that we will all lose because this hole in the budget will have to be compensated somewhere. But she'll be compensated by less money where we need it. It will be less in health care, we will be less in social life, infrastructure and so on. But how accurate is the SDS in this debate, and I don't really know. In view of everything the SDS and their government have been doing in the last eight months, I can only conclude that one of Janez Janša's friends has been able to buy 150 000 euros worth of car, and it is a shame to pay the tax, and of course the government has rushed and wrote him a special law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Secretary of State, mag. Christina Stebly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u114	Thank you very much. However, I very much hope that this response will not prolong the debate for another half-hour, but I should point out something. It has been said that the government admits that the rich are tax evasion, that this is evident from the material. I must admit that I did not understand this from the material anywhere, but it must be borne in mind that there is a single market at the level of the European Union, which means that it is a free initiative to free the movement of capital, work, services. This also means that if a person considers that he has a more favourable treatment in another Member State, he can move his activity there at any time. It also means that if he pays taxes in this Member State, taxes are paid and cannot be collected again in Slovenia. It's not about fraud, it's about moving to a more tax-friendly country. That's all this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Replica, Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u116	I haven't even discussed the legal status that much, but the fact that you are doing business in Slovenia, you are using Slovenian social services, health services, infrastructure, labour force, education etc., etc., you make a lot of money with this and you return your luxury car to 150 000 euros in another country because it's a shame for you to pay taxes, so that we can all live better, better and better together, then you're a common fraud.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 17? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the debate on the amendment to Article 40 and the amendment tabled by the left-wing group. Anybody want a word? I see you're not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided on Thursday in accordance with the timing of the meeting, according to the vote tomorrow. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on emergency measures for African swine fever in wild pigs within the framework of an emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to Minister Jožet Podgoršk. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u118	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Members and Members, all in attendance! The law we want to present today is the law on emergency measures due to African swine fever in feral pigs. This is a law that primarily represents preventive action in order not to get these diseases in Slovenia. So far, we are still free from diseases, these diseases are a free country, and it is approaching us from practically every direction of our country. This is essentially a system law consisting of four parts, in the first chapter, when we talk about the appointment of an expert group on the preparation of a plan of action for hunters, awareness raising, the arrangements for the assessment of waste at roadside resorts, the publication of the media on risk and so on. This part begins immediately after the adoption or after the application of this law. Chapter two, chapter three, chapter four, and they build on individual measures in case they are close to them – we hope that this will not happen – if the disease is already in Slovenia. In fact, after these three chapters, somehow the measures follow at least three stages. Firstly, emergency measures for the prevention and early detection of African swine fever. In feral pigs, this part mainly speaks of preventive behavior so that the disease does not come to Slovenia. We're talking about a ban on the receipt and dispatch of live wild pigs to other locations. We are talking about the intensive removal of wild pigs from the natural environment, the prohibition and restrictions on feeding on farms, biosafety measures related to hunting and the proper treatment of found dead pigs. The next chapter, or the next stage of action, is the urgent measures for high-risk zones at the state border. However, the next stage of action is the necessary measures to control and eradicate African swine fever in feral pigs when the disease is present in Slovenia. After this last one, let me mention that we're going to talk about two areas. Therefore, the infected area, which has specific measures, and also the controlled area around this infected area, where, together with the National Center for Disease Control of the Food Safety Authority and also with certain measures to be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we can carry out individual activities, including various activities that can be implemented individually or in combination with one or more of these measures. In particular, this is detailed in Article 21 of the Act, but I only read them: the prohibition of fishing, the intensification of fishing or the restriction on fishing, or the prohibition and restriction of feeding on the farm, or the active search for dead wild pigs, or the extraordinary shooting and use of hunters. The following measure: Prohibition of the eradication of wild pigs. The next action we will be able to implement is proper handling of found dead and shot wild pigs. A very important measure is the prohibition or restriction of the transport of live wild pigs, fresh meat, meat preparations, meat products consisting of or containing wild pig meat. The following measures are measures in the breed of domestic pigs and wild boars for special purposes. The next measure, which can be implemented, is to set up fences or discourage the spatial movements of wild pigs. The following measure is a restriction or prohibition on the implementation of agricultural, forestry and other activities. There are also other measures necessary for the monitoring and eradication proposed by the State Center for Disease Control. When we talk about interventions, including in the case of fences, in the so-called property right, in these strictest cases, in this case the intervention will always be possible only with the decision of the Government, while some other measures may also be introduced by the Director of the Directorate for Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Safety. So much for a little while.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Edward Paulic to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food is held at its 25th emergency meeting, on 9. 12. 2020 addressed the proposal for a law on emergency measures due to African swine fever in feral pigs. The Committee took note of the written opinion of the State Council, which supports the proposal for a law. The Committee also received a broad opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service. Most of the comments were taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, which were also adopted by the Committee. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, however, reiterated at the meeting of the Committee those essential comments which were not taken into account in the amendments tabled by the members of the Coalition. It thus pointed out that the urgency of the measures contained in the proposed solutions is not clear. There is not yet a confirmed case of African swine fever in Slovenia in feral pigs, but the solutions proposed contain preventive measures and measures in the event of the possible occurrence of this disease, which is still a future uncertain fact. She further pointed out that the draft law contained a number of solutions which, by their content, did not constitute legal matter and should be subject to sub-legislative regulation, as well as that the provision of Article 37 of the Act by content constituted an infringement of the property right referred to in Article 33 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The bill is also supported by the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, where it has been pointed out that large beasts are also promoting the migration of wild pigs and thus the rapid spread of disease, and should therefore provide for the possibility of the intervention of large beasts in the infected and controlled area. The draft law is also supported by the Veterinary Chamber of Slovenia. During the debate, the majority of members and members of the committee supported the bill because they believe that the purpose of the law is good and that everything must be done to prevent the introduction of the disease into Slovenia and thus prevent the great damage that Slovenian farmers would suffer. Several questions were raised to the proposer, so as to determine whether the intended compensation to the affected stakeholders is sufficient, what are the real chances of the disease spreading to our country, as well as whether we have consulted neighbouring countries already facing this disease in the preparation of legal solutions. In view of the fact that urgent measures are to be implemented when a high level of risk is established, the question was raised on what basis this will be announced. In particular, a provision in Article 27 of the draft law was made which allows sound suppression devices to be used for the execution of an emergency shell. The fear was expressed that this would bring the silencer of sound into other legislation, such as the Law on Hunting. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Jože Podgoršek, answered these and some other questions. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft law and adopted them by nine votes to one. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u121	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. Predrag Baković has the floor to present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u122	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! African swine fever is not a new phenomenon or disease in the European Union, as it has been present in the wild pig population for some time. These pig populations, which are positive for this disease, are found mainly in the Eastern European countries of the European Union, as well as in countries that are not part of the European Community. Since two countries in the vicinity of Slovenia, which have several confirmed cases of swine fever, and because it is an animal that migrates unreservedly also across national borders, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has written a legal proposal which, if the situation in Slovenia deteriorates, will allow mechanisms and levers to plague and stop the swine plague. The applicants believe that the occurrence of the disease could have serious consequences for the economy, tourism, agriculture or, above all, pigs in Slovenia. In order to avoid risks and possible infections, the law proposes solutions to provide a legal basis for the implementation of the proposed measures, to designate competent authorities to carry out professional administrative and supervisory tasks and to decide or lay down measures to prevent and detect disease early in feral pigs. In the Social Democrats Group, we welcome the effort they have made at the Ministry and share the view that the invasion or outbreak of swine fever in our area could have disastrous consequences. Even though the law has the right purpose, we do exist reserved for some of the solutions that are proposed. Although the amendments rectified some of the ambiguities raised by the Legislative and Laundry Service of the National Assembly, some confusion remained open or unresolved despite warnings from the Legislative and Legal Service. We cannot overlook that the proposed amendment has not listened fully or to comments, to those comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service which are essential. However, the fact that there is a non-compliance between legal acts, that the law remains insufficiently established and that it needs to be specified and that the bill provides legal grounds that may introduce certain restrictions or prohibitions that may have a greater impact on human rights and freedoms is only a few things that the Law-Legal Service has clearly pointed out but have not been resolved in the amendments. While we welcome the purpose of the law and the preventive approach to solving the problem in the Group of Social Democrats, as we say, we remain sceptical and reserved to the solution because the law introduces a strangler on hunting rifles, which can mean mass entry of these chokers through a small door for all other hunting weapons and perhaps all other weapons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Respected and respected! African swine fever is an extremely contagious disease that affects both domestic and feral pigs and causes significant economic damage. A disease that is not dangerous to humans is fatal to pigs, causing sudden and high deaths, and unfortunately we do not yet know the vaccine or the medicine. African swine fever spreads irrespective of national borders and has serious socio-economic consequences for affected countries mainly due to restrictions on trade and international trade in live pigs, meat and products originating from pigs. Between 2016 and 2020, the African swine fever in Europe fell to 1.3 million pigs. Several thousand cases of swine fever have also been observed in European Union countries this year in domestic and feral pigs. The disease has occurred in more than ten European countries, where disease control and eradication measures have also been introduced. Fortunately, Slovenia has not yet seen the phenomenon of swine fever, but, taking into account the prevalence across Europe, there is a great risk that the disease will also occur in us. Timely detection, prevention and reporting of suspicious cases is particularly important for the control of deadly disease. By regularly cleaning equipment, preventing contact with wild pigs and identifying signs of disease, hunters, breeders and veterinarians can make a key contribution to preventing the spread of the disease. In doing so, we, Members of Parliament and Members of the SMC Group, and I believe that the other members of the National Assembly, by confirming and implementing the Proposal for a Law on emergency measures due to African swine fever in feral pigs, are also interested in helping. This law regulates a series of urgent preventive measures, such as public awareness, cooperation with hunters, giving instructions to breeders, then measures in high-risk areas at the state border and measures for early detection, control and eradication of disease after its occurrence in Slovenia. The law specifies the operators of the measures, the competent authorities, the supervision of the implementation and financing of the measures. It also provides for reimbursement of costs and compensation for damage caused by measures. I would like to remind you that in the debate on the above-mentioned law at the meeting of the parent working body, some Members have argued that the proposed measures are too early and too sharp, but in the SMC Group we are convinced that it is time to act now, because the action would only be too late for us after the first outbreak of the swine fever and would cause much more damage and much more trouble for us to control and prevent the spread of the disease. However, the timely introduction and implementation of the measures provided for in the proposed law will significantly reduce the possibility of swine fever in the wild pig population, reduce the risk of introduction into domestic pigs and reduce the consequences of swine fever, other agricultural sectors and other parts of the economy. At this point, I would like to invite all Slovenian breeders to pay attention to the health status of your pigs and to inform your veterinarian without delay of any suspected disease and to carry out biosecurity measures in a consistent manner. The emergence and spread of African swine fever across Europe has also resulted in the rise in prices for pigmeat in the European market. This also directly affects the purchase prices in Slovenia, as self-sustainment with pork is low, only about 30%. As we are aware of the high level of risk and risk posed by the occurrence and spread of African swine fever for agriculture, economy and tourism, and as we are convinced that the proposed law introduces a series of urgent measures for the early detection, control and eradication of the disease, we will unanimously support the proposal for emergency measures in the context of African swine fever in feral pigs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister! The main purpose of the African swine fever emergency law is to enable the mass extermination of wild pigs. Indeed, there are other solutions in the law, but the main objective of the law and the measure for which the most public money will be spent is a massacre at a level that we have never seen before. The law is adopted by emergency procedure at a time when neither in the country nor near the state border has there been any case of African swine fever. It's a preventive measure where patients get shot before they get sick. The bill estimates that hunters will annually base the killing of wild pigs, which will be prepared on the basis of a ten-year average by the Institute of Forests, by more than 2,000 wild boars of female sex and animals of both sexes in the first life year, and by approximately a thousand wild boars of other categories. Nowhere in the law has an approximate assessment of the number of wild pig populations in us, nor has it been estimated the consequences that the non-discriminatory killing of wild pigs will have on the population itself. African swine fever has been shown not to be tolerated to other animals and humans and is not dangerous to other animals and humans. Of course, it is passed on to domesticated pigs and wild pigs in flocks grown there for human consumption. In order to keep the pig industry stable and to make profits as low as possible, a massacre will be carried out on wild boars, as this is also the case for African swine fever to be protected against swine farms on the basis of non-discriminatory killings not by disease vectors, but by potential carriers. We could, for example, adopt a law that would allow the extraordinary slaughter of wild pigs only when the plague is really near the state border. An exceptional discharge could be carried out at a rate, including preventively, but in individual hunting areas, depending on how close they are to the infected area. But none of this! Wild pigs will be killed freely and limitlessly before we have a single male confirmed case of disease in or near the country. The people who will do so will be paid from the state budget from 15 euros an hour or more. Pigs are obliged to protect their own private property against swine fever. If an infection occurs on a farm, then all the pigs there are killed. And unlike wild pigs that move freely around the world, breeding pigs from other farmed pigs and also from wild pigs are very well isolated. Indeed, the law also introduces certain additional measures to protect these pigs and to limit movement, but also during a period of suspected so-called dangerous disease such as African swine fever, pigs will be transported by the country to breed also wild pigs grown in specific fields. This clearly shows that the country does not have a problem with the adoption of a law that could eliminate one whole animal species in the country simply because of the threat of a disease, but that disease should not cause it to suffer business. Other countries in Europe, such as Austria, Switzerland and Belgium, have not taken a similar measure or have provided for similar measures only in cases of direct danger when such a measure is necessary to prevent the spread of swine fever. In Slovenia we will preventively kill everything, as much as possible by the law we are dealing with. What stinks most to me is that the Ministry of the Interior will even acquire special weapons with silencers, special bullets and targeting devices, which are not allowed for civilian use at all, it is a real small war forecast. The law means subsidising hunting and protecting private pigmeat capital and is specific and we will therefore vote against this law in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats will be presented by Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Since 2014, swine fever has spread steadily across Europe, Asia, and is one of the greatest threats of today. It is a viral disease of domestic and feral pigs characterised by redness in the skin and sudden extensive deaths, but it does not pose a risk to human health and the health of other animal species. There's no vaccine for her. We do not yet have a confirmed case of African swine fever in Slovenia, but its spread in neighbouring countries poses a threat to Slovenian swine fever. The African swine fever already has a direct influence and raises questions about the existence of a Slovenian swine fever. The reduction in buying-in prices of pigmeat and the cessation of sales have already affected Slovenian breeders. Aware of the scale of this disease and its rapid and large infectivity, we today have a law on the benches that prepares and allows the implementation of preventive measures to prevent the introduction of African swine fever and protocols in the event of a possible intrusion into Slovenia. This also shows the responsibility and concern of the ministry for domestic breeders, hunters and citizens. Many still remember the natural disasters that hit us in 2014 almost all the country was in the stomach, and the consequences that followed it were catastrophic for our forests. The damaged trees in our forests have resulted in an extraordinary increase in the lobalardier, and our forests have been severely affected, decimated by compulsory sanitary logging of damaged wood. In certain parts of Slovenia we have nuclei and real devastation. By then, hunters, farmers and representatives of the Institute for Forests had warned that due to strong vegetation, there was a high likelihood of an increase in the wild pig population in the affected forests. Today we find that we did not take warnings seriously. Wild pigs have become overcrowded and are now present in virtually all regions of Slovenia. This confirms the number of farmers' claims for damage by game. The destruction of agricultural crops is largely at the expense of the damage to wild pigs. Perhaps it has been the hunters' interest after this trophy game for some time, and this has certainly ended with the announcement of African swine fever in neighbouring countries such as Hungary and Italy as well as other countries across Europe. That the disease is serious, there is also evidence of the closure of borders between countries. By December 2019 Denmark in Jutland had completely closed the border with Germany. It is certainly the most effective and also the cheapest measure in the form of a preventive reduction in the number of wild boar populations. This would reduce the possibility of African swine fever entering Slovenia. Since the Ministry has prepared legal solutions in the event of a possible incursion of African swine fever into Slovenia and because human health and health care and animal protection are covered by the proposal for a law, Members of New Slovenia - Christian Democrats will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u130	Your Honor, thank you for your word. African swine fever is an infectious viral disease of domestic and feral pigs. It's caused by a virus that's not dangerous to humans. Due to the high level of risk that the spread and occurrence of African swine fever, the so-called APC, poses in Europe for Slovenian swine and all the country, the Directorate for Safe Food, Veterinary and Plant Protection, together with the Ministry, has prepared a proposal for a law on emergency measures due to African swine fever in feral pigs. This is a system law governing measures in feral pigs and also measures to be taken in domestic pigs due to the emergence of APC in feral pigs. The proposal foresees three stages of action: emergency measures to prevent and detect APCs early in feral pigs, preventive measures, emergency measures for the high risk area at the state border, and emergency measures to control and eradicate APCs in feral pigs. No cases of African swine fever have been reported in Slovenia for the time being. The disease is currently spreading mainly across the eastern part of Europe. Examples were recorded, inter alia, in neighbouring Hungary, as well as in Serbia, Germany, which is a major exporter of pork. In the last four years, 1.3 million pigs have died in Europe alone. In addition to the urgent measures to be taken in the light of the threat, the law also provides for the implementation of the measures only by defining the operators of the individual measures, establishing who provides the necessary equipment and means to implement the measures and financing the implementation of the measures. In order to be able to implement individual measures as quickly as possible due to the high risk or post-disease measures in feral pigs in Slovenia, the proposal for a law in the transitional provisions sets out the time limits for initiating procurement procedures, for the successful supply of weapons, equipment, fences and means for the implementation of emergency measures under this law. In the SAB Group, we support and believe that the adoption of the law on emergency measures in relation to APK in feral pigs is necessary, as the timely introduction and implementation of measures for the prevention and early detection of APK and the introduction of emergency measures for high-risk areas, in particular at the state border, reduces the possibility of introducing APK into the wild pig population and, if possible, enables early detection of disease and the effective and rapid implementation of emergency measures to prevent or reduce the risk of the transfer of APC to domestic pigs. For all the things listed in the SAB Group, we believe that the purpose of the law is good, and we will support it, because everything needs to be done to prevent the APC in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We live in a time when we understand very well the danger of infectious diseases. New diseases are emerging in the background of the new coronavirus pandemic, which may also pose a threat to the economy of individual countries. Today, after an emergency procedure, we are considering a law that plans preventive measures and measures to be taken in the event of African swine fever. The disease originating from the African continent, which has already spread to Europe and Asia, is not new and is not dangerous to humans, but can cause serious harm to the population of domestic wild pigs. The adoption of legislation by emergency procedure is necessary due to the high level of risk which the spread and incidence of African swine fever in Europe represents for the economy, tourism and agriculture, especially for pigs in Slovenia. In Europe, between 2016 and 2020, 1.3 million pigs have been infected with this type of plague. Recently, swine fever was confirmed in a feral pig in Germany. As a result, China has already banned imports of German pork, which is a major blow to German producers who have lost the largest export market outside the European Union by ban. Before that, the disease was also detected in Serbia and Bulgaria. The law plans preventive measures and measures to be taken in the event of a disease in our country. Several other stakeholders will need to be included in the implementation of these measures in addition to hunters. Effective implementation of the measures requires additional equipment, trained groups, additional training of staff. In certain cases, however, police, military and civil protection cooperation will also need to be ensured. If a disease is introduced into Slovenia, it will be necessary to do everything possible to control and eradicate this disease in feral pigs and to prevent or reduce the risk of transmission of the disease to pigs as soon as possible. As always, in this case, prevention is better than curative. The law sets out a number of preventive measures, such as: raising public awareness, sampling, guidance for breeders, hunters, carriers and tourists, updating the plans for disease-related measures and other necessary activities. In the Desus Group, we are aware of the sensitivity of the issue and the consequences that could have arisen if we did not act in a preventive and timely manner. We see what happens when infectious diseases are no longer manageable. We welcome the efforts of the Government and the competent ministry and will unanimously support the proposal for a law on emergency measures due to African swine fever in feral pigs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u134	All in attendance, all in attendance! The emergence of African swine fever is not a new issue, as it has been unstoppable and rapidly spreading throughout Europe and Asia since 2014. In the past, the disease was limited to African countries and, following the entry into Georgia in 2007, when the remnants of meat and meat products were dumped in an unprotected landfill from a ship coming from Africa, the plague spread to neighbouring countries and then to Poland, Hungary, Romania, Serbia and elsewhere. The adoption of the law is necessary. In fact, the virus is not only transmitted directly from pig to pig. The most common carrier in addition to infected domestic and wild pigs is man. The virus is unwittingly transmitted through products containing meat of infected pigs, with infected clothing, footwear, equipment, meat products, means of transport from infected countries. Given that Slovenia is a transit country for illegal migrants on the Balkan route to the north, there is a risk that incoming viruses from southern countries will also rely on Slovenian territory. The African swine fever was also discovered in Vojvodina. They believe that the virus could have come from Romania, where the migrants were lying in the park. It's supposed to infect grass to feed domestic pigs. Preventive measures to prevent virus intrusion are very important. As soon as possible, it is necessary to place fences along the national border with the aim of reducing and dispersing wild pigs and preventing contact with domestic pigs. The emergence of African swine fever can have disastrous consequences for agriculture and also for the economy. The damage to the pig is mainly caused by the pig. In order to contact the infection, the breeders must kill all the pigs. However, restrictions on international trade in animals and meat have shown consequences in the economy. The rate of self-sustainment with pig meat is so low. It was only 38% in 2018. In particular, we export pigmeat products, 67 per cent of exports, and the export of the meat itself represents 33 per cent. It is also necessary to reduce the population of feral pigs by means of an emergency shootout. In the event of an outbreak of African swine fever, this would make it easier to limit the movement of feral pigs and consequently make it easier to eradicate the disease. Given that Slovenia has about 60 percent of the forests, it would be difficult to eradicate the disease without strict measures. The reduction in the number of wild pigs would also reduce the damage caused on agricultural areas. The use of a silencer is permitted under Article 27 of this Act to prevent noise from being heard, which of course we welcome. At the beginning of the year, we also addressed the Ministry of the Interior with an initiative that we wanted to achieve that the use of pacifiers should be limited. Since there is no vaccine for African swine fever, groups and individuals who are in regular contact with domestic or feral pigs play a key role in the eradication of the disease. Timely detection, prevention and reporting of suspicious cases is important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues, a nice greeting to everyone! African swine fever is one of those diseases that poses a great threat to the economy and agriculture and the vaccine is not. How familiar that sounds in these times. The risk of disease for all segments of society and the vaccine is not. That is why we must be responsible, so we must act and therefore we have before us the proposal for a law on emergency measures due to African swine fever in feral pigs in terms of better prevention than treatment. In the SDS Group, however, we hope that this law will never fully come to life, in short, that this disease will not occur in Slovenia, but hope is unlikely to last. We therefore welcome this bill and also welcome all the major solutions mentioned in the 16 points, which are later realized in the conclusions themselves. In short, 16 preventive measures, and probably also for curative purposes. In Slovenia, the issue of pigs has been an open topic for quite some time, especially on the Committee on Agriculture, and we do not want to see those bad numbers in this area even worse because of the irresponsible treatment of policies in these matters. On the other hand, we welcome the willingness of hunting families and hunters themselves to help deal with this disease. We appeal to their operation, and we do not agree to criminalizing the actions of hunters, as has already been heard today. In short, in the SDS Group we welcome both preventive measures, such as awareness and management of waste disposal sites, then concrete measures in the pre-existing stage of the disease; in short, the reduction of the population of wild pigs, the preparation and implementation of the plan of action for hunters and the setting of fences around facilities with domestic pigs. In addition, we particularly welcome the successful reward of those who, in the first place at the time of the possible arrival of this disease in Slovenia, will be, not only with tasks that have been over-ruled in the past, but also with certain incentives. We therefore welcome, for example, solutions such as the fact that game operators will be limited in the eradication of game, they will not be able to carry out all the tasks and will therefore be able to reduce their concession fee. But on the other hand, during the time of the hunting ban, there may be damage caused by game in agricultural and forestry cultures. Since the fishing operators will not be able to receive income at this time, the Ministry will be able to pay any damages to landowners. In short, it is about keeping the wild pigs in Slovenia healthy, saving the Slovenian economy, saving the Slovenian agriculture, especially the pork sector, and adopting this law in principle better prevent than cure. That is why not only do we support this bill in the SDS Group of Members, but we will also be pleased to support it unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u138	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister! African swine fever has been present in Europe since 2007, in 2017 it appeared closer to the Czech Republic, and in 2019 in our immediate vicinity in Hungary. The Directorate for Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Protection, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, started drafting legislation on emergency measures due to African swine fever in feral pigs at the beginning of 2019, but we only received an intervention proposal in the National Assembly by the end of November 2020. African swine fever is the crown of the pig virus, which certainly requires rapid and effective preventive action, especially at a time when the first infection is not confirmed in Slovenia, but with a more or less unwarranted ad-hod adoption of legislation, including the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the democratic debate and the possibility of hearing the voice of various experts and NGOs is tightened. In the LMŠ we understand the purpose of the law and the related preventive measures to prevent the introduction of African swine fever and the measures to be taken when the first infection is confirmed and, in particular, meaningful measures to protect domestic pigs. In particular, we welcome those who are oriented towards the coexistence of man and wild animals and are designed to the greatest extent to be responsible for them and nature. However, we cannot ignore a small-day hand-to-hand preventive measure, which, following the shortest line of the search for proportionality, provides for the intensive disposal of wild pigs, which does not have a specific ceiling for the bait and is promised a financial reward for each additional death of any wild pig. Extensive increase in wild boar shelling in the fight against African swine fever would be understood if it were carried out gradually or directed at certain categories within the population or a specific area where population density is highest. Since Members and Members of the LMŠ on the home committee have not received and received satisfactory explanations regarding the intensive shooting, we will require the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to keep the Parliamentary Committee periodically informed of the report on the details of the implementation of the intensive and exceptional shooting of wild pigs following the entry into force of the law. In the LMŠ, we also believe that the intensity of both preventive and emergency disposal due to wild pig infections can be much more tolerated if there is creative and professional cooperation with neighbouring countries. In the event of African and swine fever, the likelihood of death of domestic pigs is 100 %. In addition, healthy domestic pigs are slaughtered to limit the spread. Losses in economic agriculture can take on a huge scale. As a result, pigmeat, dependence on the foreign market and imports could only increase. At the same time, it would be subject to higher prices and high risks to the safety of pig meat. It is therefore extremely important that we act preventively in the protection of domestic swine breeders and properly prepare for the possible introduction of African swine fever into the territory of Slovenia, but measures must be proportionate. Self-sustainment of pig meat is insufficient in Slovenia. Efforts to increase the supply of pigmeat in Slovenia also means efforts for more processing areas for food production and for cultivation. The irresponsible interference of man in the living space of wild animals continues to pose a threat to the emergence of new infectious diseases in animals, and we are facing many challenges in the future, how to preserve the coexistence between wild animals and humans through as few as possible interventions into the natural environment. Following these uncertainties and professional shortcomings, it is not possible to support the proposed law on emergency measures for African swine fever in the LMŠ of that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-16-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u139	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Thursday 17 December 2020 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item and the 53rd extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by a vote on Thursday 17 December 2020 at 10 a.m. Thank you very much.
