ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Branko Simonović until 16:00, Samo Bevk, Felice Žiža, Jože Tanko, Brane Golubović, Bojan Podkrodšek, Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec, Violeta Tomić from 12.15 p.m., Anja Bah Žibert, Franz Breznik and Franci Kepa. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. [[advertising from the hall]] Comrade Marko Koprivc, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Before continuing the meeting, I would like to ask you to invite the distinguished Prime Minister of the Government of Mr Janez Janša to apologize to all the victims of Srebrenica for the insulting tweet he wrote days ago regarding the events in Srebrenica, and then we can continue the meeting. However, I would like to ask that Mr President of the Government apologizes before this because Twitter is very offensive and opens many wounds to the victims or their relatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mr Member, this is unfortunately not a procedural proposal. I may be able to substantively agree with you even in a certain part of it, but the beginning of the meeting of the National Assembly today will not be used to clear up what is written on Twitter. I therefore propose that we stick to the agenda and the rules of procedure and go to the questions of the Members. However, I believe that Mr President of the Government has also understood your initiative. Procedurally, my dear fellow Koprivc, but if it is not procedural, I will give you a reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u4	If there is no excuse for this, Members and Members of the Social Democrats will not cooperate on this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u5	Okay, thank you very much. We're continuing our session. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 48 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the question of a ruling coalition member will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister; this shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that such a proposal needs to be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, but not on the procedural proposal to be used for the substantive debate on the question raised. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, they apologized for today: Dr. Ange Logar, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mag. Andrej Vizjak, Minister of Environment and Space, from 2.30 p.m. to Jernej Vrtovec, Minister of Infrastructure, from 17:00 p.m. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to the question of the Member States. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. The question of the mission will first be asked by Luka Moon, Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. I used to raise your hand for procedure, but you didn't notice. So I'm going to use my three minutes basically as a procedural tool. I think we've seen the inadequacy of this power again today. Slovenia has been in a political and moral crisis, which we have not experienced in a long time, and the government is acting completely inappropriately in the hands of the Prime Minister himself. We are on the threshold of the second wave of the epidemic in Slovenia. Unemployment is a quarter higher than it was last year. Government measures don't work, you let self-employed people down over the summer. The health department only warns that he's running out of money in the second half of the year. The homes for the elderly are no more ready for the second wave than they were at the first. Meanwhile, the President of the Government and the Government are doing completely different things to avoid these criticisms. He's trying to amend media legislation to put his people in the media there, replace the insubordinate journalists and editors, and take money to his private media companies, headed by Novo24. Then he's recruiting in state-owned companies. Of course, they set up for Dars, one of the largest state firms, a human being, a vice-president of the NSI party, who has, until recently, advocated the withdrawal of the country from the economy, a man who lacks even a day of leadership experience, and a man who is awarded only a client card. In order to divert attention from these problems, the President of the government produces a new affair on his own every week. This weekend was a completely unworthy, stateless and immoral statement about Srebrenica, which, according to colleagues from the Social Democrats, poured salt on the wounds of 8 000 372 victims of genocide. The prime minister denied the genocide, talked about the slaughter, and now he was not prepared to apologize for it. Or, if I recall, three days earlier, when he showed up with dictator Vukic and Orban on a common online round table, he was talking about cultural Marxism, a term that was used 111 times in his manifesto by Norwegian mass murderer Anders Breivik before he went to slaughter, or a term that was recently borrowed from a Nazi vocabulary. For they spoke of cultural Bolshevism before they made their genocides. In short, we are dealing with a serious moral and political crisis, and the President of the Government is setting all of this on fire in a similar way as does US President Donald Trump. Where it takes us, we can see it in America. After four years of such leadership, this country is literally at the threshold of social disintegration. Given that the President of the Government was not prepared to apologize today for this distasteful statement in Srebrenica, we are also predicting in Levica the obstruction of this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u7	Thank you very much. President of the Government, if you want an answer. I didn't get the questions. Don't you? Then let's move on. The following question is raised by colleague Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u8	Excuse me, President. If a Member can ask something and say anything, then it's probably possible to answer it. Different [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u9	You have a chance to answer, yes. I gave you a chance. If you want a word, you have one.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u10	With regard to the first part, I must say that I am very sorry that those who request an apology for a statement cannot even quote these statements. In 2009, at the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall, I was asked by a reputable international institution to study, which I also wrote, it was published on 1 December 2009. In it, I analyze developments after the fall of the Berlin Wall, including in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, and also the causes of the Balkan Sea, including the causes of the massacre in Srebrenica or the genocide in Srebrenica. On the basis of this study, I was also selected to lead an international initiative to supplement the United Nations resolution on genocide, to complement the resolution adopted by the Polish Jew Lemkin through the General Assembly of the United Nations. In 2012, this initiative was supported by over 100 world leaders, published in the global media, and discussed at the United Nations General Assembly. From 2009 on, I always put this study back on the anniversary of genocide in Srebrenica. That's what I did this year. I didn't write it now, but 11 years ago. I must say, so far, the arguments in this study have not disturbed anyone, and no one has answered them. This was ignored in Slovenia, while there was considerable debate in the international public about this, and of course there was no objection to this finding because the matter is logical. The genocide in Srebrenica was based on the same evil that was brewing at the Yugoslav Army Academy in Belgrade. I studied defense and I know that doctrine, and it says in that doctrine that the enemy, either the aggressor or the class enemy, should be physically destroyed, that is to say, killed, killed. This is the ultimate goal of an armed struggle. This is the doctrine in which Ratko Mladic was raised and learned in Srebrenica in some other places in Bosnia. Some who took part in the proceedings before an international court justified their argument that they believed that because of the postwar killings in the former Yugoslavia, where 10,000 prisoners of war were killed, no one would answer that they would not answer either and that 50 years later, when the graves were discovered, no one would be interested. I've warned about these things, and these are historical facts. As for the war in Bosnia and Srebrenica, if Slovenia, when I was the Minister of Defence, would not help Bosniaks diplomatically, by training their troops and with weapons and military equipment, these Srebrenicas would be five times more, at least. There's evidence of that. That is, those who, because of this, are not capable of condemning all crimes equally and measuring them with the same vats, are now shouting for this comparison, in fact shouting to themselves. There would be no Srebrenica, there would be no Roanda, there would be many similar genocidal acts in the world if the world were able to condemn all crimes equally, no matter what ideology encouraged them. And here too is the lack of a world order, which is why we are striving to make the United Nations resolution on genocide adequately complementary. And as long as it is possible to kill in the name of one ideology, and in the name of another it will be condemned, so long will genocide in the world. And there is consensus on that in the civilized world. No one opposes this, except in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Next question will be asked by colleague Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u12	Thank you, President, for your word. Even though I agree with my colleagues, I think today's questions are important for us and our country, so I'm going to stay right here and ask, at least I'll hope for your answers. Dear Prime Minister, in recent years, the Ministry of Infrastructure has allowed students and students who bought a monthly ticket or had an annual or semi-annual ticket in June to use public transport free of charge during the summer months. This year, however, you initially abolished this benefit because of the financial downturn in public passenger transport. Such a decision was made public on day 30. 6. 2020, that is, the day before they ceased to apply against the expectations of the ticket. On day three. Seven. 2020, the Ministry of Infrastructure announced that, for the summer months of 2020, they had again made it possible to use public transport free of charge. Because of the covida-19 epidemic, many students and students found themselves in a difficult financial situation. The abolition of free use of public transport during the summer months makes it even more difficult for students and students to cope with the financial situation in which many of them find themselves. In the SAB Group, we have tabled a proposal for a law amending the Road Transport Act, which is why we would like to see this benefit brought to the legal system, so that students and students will not be shown mercy and mercy to every single minister. In view of the obvious beginning of the savings and austerity season, I am interested in: Does the government plan any other austerity measures that will have a direct negative impact on students and students? I wonder if you're really preparing a new buzzer that's going to hit the most vulnerable groups again. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u13	Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u14	Thank you so much for asking. As far as vulnerable groups are concerned, these vulnerable groups have not received as much of our joint assistance in Slovenia as they have in recent months. As far as free transport for students and students is concerned, we have not stopped it, nor have we changed or respected the legal basis, since this legal basis does not exist for summer transport subsidies and has not yet existed. The means of subsidising these transports in the summers have been provided by operators, namely carriers, from surpluses created in the beginning of the year or until the summer so far. The problem this year, which is obvious to everyone, was that these surpluses were not there, due to the epidemic and so on, and neither was the means. And for the fact that, with the help of the Ministry of Infrastructure, some of these resources have been found to be still in force at this time, it is important to thank the carriers in particular, but also the Ministry, that they have been engaged and motivated to do so also in a situation that is not exactly glamorous. So this year, too, this will be subsidized. As far as your second question is concerned, what measures are being taken? First of all, we are trying to make certain measures as far as possible in terms of intervention. And the less infected we will have in this wave, which we are now witnessing, the less sick, the less the need for restrictive measures, and ultimately the more restrictive measures that violate certain rights. However, it is probably clear to everyone that, at this point in time, the response to what measures will be needed by the end of the year, there is no one, not us, not in Europe, not in the world, because we simply do not know how long this situation will last. And all we can do, or far as far as we can, is to adapt to this situation, to do everything we can to make as few infections as possible, to do everything we can to make as few patients as possible, to make sure that we do everything in order to make as few restrictions as possible. There will be fewer restrictions, fewer halts to public life and the economy, better public finances and less austerity will be needed. So I think that in this room, for as long as we have left, we sit down all those who are aware of this responsibility and work to bring this situation together as easily as possible. However, it is certainly not the intention of this government to adopt restrictions on the most vulnerable groups, even if necessary. I think we have already demonstrated in recent months that we know where solidarity is needed and that we have also demonstrated this solidarity to a large extent in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u15	Thank you. Comrade Bandelli, you have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u16	Thanks for the answer. President, you know my question wasn't as innocent as it sounded. As an intelligent person, you know exactly where I was aiming and why I asked that. Since it was written in 2012, the honourable President, it was the students who were the first to receive these austerity measures by eating, increasing the concession fees, so that this will not be the real phase of the one that is waiting for us again. Then the public sector was reduced by 15%, 26 000 pensioners were reduced by 300 euros, because Desus did not commit to it, he confirmed that at the time. We will, I hope, if this happens, we will stand for this thing. Children's allowances, unemployment benefits, all that happened back then. Tell me, Mr President, truly, if you really are a man of words and honor as such, what I think you are, or can we really rely on you, on your words. Because here, as it seems now, is not what has been proven to this day, unfortunately not everything seems to be the same. In the light of the changes in institutions, if we look at them, in the institutions that are happening, look at what's going on with RTV, this law that is now on the table, which is one shame that I don't know how it's going to end. Isn't this just one small phase of this new one, but we don't have to call it Zuif, we can call it another. [[…]] What's hiding in the background here and what's coming to the table here? Because you're slowly aiming to get us started with these grave austerity measures. This is where I want you to answer me. Please really tell me with your words, tell me truly that we citizens can count on what you say now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u17	Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u18	When you mentioned that year 2012, you for the first time forgot why those measures were necessary. Not because of what happened in 2012, but because of what happened a few years earlier, when public spending was increasing and public treasury funds were falling and money was simply running out. And those measures, when your president talks a lot about who saved Slovenia from a threesome, those measures saved Slovenia from a threesome. Otherwise, an international administration would come and we would have what was happening to Greece and another country. The other thing you forgot about is that that government was the one that introduced the grant of free transport, transport for students and students when you listed things. As far as keeping your word is concerned. If you're going to walk on corn and look for discarded rifles, you won't find mine. But you will find many of those with whom you sat together in the government and now sit together in the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Comrade Bandelli, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u20	Thank you, President. Dear Prime Minister Janez Janša, in the light of recent events, I believe in you personally, how our client SAB should believe you or how citizens should believe you at all, you tell me. You've already cut 130 million investments at the Ministry of Infrastructure, that's clearly what everyone knows. Certain cultural invitations are not even available, they are frozen, so we are here at this stage. On the students and on the pensioners, the esteemed Prime Minister of the Government, here he saves himself, he doesn't save on them. What conscience can a person have, you know, to save on these persons? You tell me. That's the first and basic thing that is. We don't believe you for a simple reason, because if you don't believe in institutions yourself, then how will we believe me if you don't believe in institutions? Your system, the mode of work you have now, is essentially a pure disassembly of the country, disqualification of these institutions, really said. How can we believe now? At the irrevocable resignation of your minister, you plead not to open the envelope when we all know that you have precedents with the non-opening of envelopes, sorry if I tell you so. Now he hasn't opened the envelope, and the minister is still the minister. Where are we? What do you think is right for you to have us here as a fool, the National Assembly? It's not done. It's never happened in 30 years. Since the argument is particularly important for the future of our still democratic country, I hope that it will remain democratic, I propose that a general debate be held on the basis of Article 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 14 July 2020, in the framework of the votes. The next one has a word for the question of Comrade Victory Jelinčič Nobleni.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u22	Thank you very much. My question today concerns the National Investigation Office, which was established in 2010 and was made by Mrs Katarina Kresal and presented as Slovenian FBI. At that time Kresalova and her friend Yuri Pogacar built a building for which Pogačar paid 225,000 euros a month and received 136 thousand euros from the country. This is said to have received an additional EUR 10,000 each month in his pocket, and at the same time this building would be his in 20 years. Fortunately, Minister Gorenak broke it off in 2012. In this regard, I ask, Mr President of the Government: Do you know what the fate of the criminal and prosecutorial investigation of the lease of an NPU building was? Do you know in what sense Katarina Kresal then, instead of the Slovenian FBI, did the NPU as her subordinate political police? In 2013, why did you, by means of a new law on the organisation and the work of the police, intervene in an organisational manner in the functioning of the NPU and subordinate it to the criminal police? Do you believe that these legal changes have prevented the political functioning of the NPU? I don't think so, because a while ago on TV, the NGO lady from the Youth Plus Tea Jarc said, "You're going to be visited by criminals." Even on Pop TV, they knew he was running an NPU investigation against me, and I don't know what it is. Therefore, I also sent a letter to the General Police Administration, to the NPU, requesting that, in accordance with Article 22(2) of the PDOVS, they tell me which crime against me has been recorded, when this act has been recorded, and that I request that the NPU also provide me with a instructions on the recording of the crime. There is a lot of work going on, very much according to political preferences. I advocate, like the Slovenian National Party, that the NPU be abolished. We don't need an organ like that, we have a specialized prosecutor's office, we have a criminal service, we have a police force that works. And it is high time for such organizations, which can be compared to Geheim Staatspolis or Gestapo in Nazi Germany, to be abolished. But I'd like to ask for an answer to your questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u23	Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u24	Thank you so much for asking. The first thing to say when we talk about these things is that not everything we talk about is the police in general. The police have a uniformed police, they have a criminal police force, often when there's some illegality or anything wrong, they talk about the police in general. As far as the uniformed police is concerned, I can say that in recent months it has proved that it is part of its task even in the most difficult situation, that it has problems with certain overloads when it comes to illegal migration, and that it needs the help of the Slovenian military and perhaps other institutions and that it is necessary to separate it. But when we're talking to the crime police, maybe some information first. I think there are about 900 criminals in Slovenia, some 70, 80 of them within the NPU. An investigator falls on his head a year or dealing with some 60 crimes if we count all the crimes being dealt with and divide them into 900 criminals. When we look at the NPU, we see that one of the criminals employed by the NPU is one crime, because it is an institution that, after that first episode you described and what nothing else to add, has simply given the authority in recent years to make the choice itself, what it will deal with. So, let's say she's now in charge of a house investigation with the vice-president of the government, but she's not dealing with the sum of millions, ten million or a hundred million corruption in investing in TES, and that's what they've left to the local police. This already means that it is for a person who is not intended to be treated as a matter of priority by weight and by danger to society or by economic damage. The fact that the salary of an NPU criminal is comparable to that of a police director is said to be an outside body. In 2013, as mentioned earlier, we tried to put it back inside the criminal police, but after that year everything was relaxed again. If we are talking about legitimate evidence of politicisation within this system, then the core of it is sure, not entirely, but the core is definitely within this institution. And given that it was set up as a political project with a heavy burden of corruption at the outset, the least that needs to be done is to depoliticise this institution. That things will take place in such a way that the law will be taken into account in all equally, that it will not be first- and second-class, and that they will not set themselves tasks. As for the question of whether the corruption that was obvious to everyone was initially sanctioned, you know it was not. Mr Jevšek, the general director of the police at the time, is now the mayor, the SD, I think in the Murski Sobota. And then it must have been continued by Director Goršek, who was also unpolitical, his son runs the SD Youth Forum or he did. So it's clear where these political roots are of the key officials who put it. The outcome was that, in the end, the most responsible had not been processed at all; the State Secretary, who had not been convicted, went to some procedure. That is to say, if an institution which is designed to prosecute the worst forms of crime does not arise from crime, then any great hope that it will work does not. Unless it's depoliticized. However, now that we are trying to do so, depoliticisation is trying to readjust politicisation, even though the politicisation of this institution has been present since the very beginning.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelinčič, you want a word, a request for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u26	Thank you very much. The biggest problem with the NPU is that it should work effectively, but it is not. You yourself said that 70 criminals at the NPU are handling about 70 cases a year, which means one is dealing with one criminal. It is no wonder, therefore, that these are political matters that they are doing or preparing in a broader context, even as instructed by some political parties, and then move on. So I keep asking you: How do you assess the effectiveness of the NPU's work in terms of the number of crimes under consideration? How do you assess the fact that they choose their own crimes, which they will solve, is that we are back in political decisions? How do you assess the level of wages of employees at the NPU compared to the salaries of most criminals, which is also related to the further question of the questionable expertise of these personnel? What do you think about NPU information leaking to certain media that are weather-specific policy options? And also, the politicization of the NPU. For example, now, in recent times, the NPU has begun to question my wife Monica long and wide. Why? Why? It is evident here that it is only an attempt to politically overthrow the Slovenian National Party and me personally because we have given support to the current government. In short, as I've already said, the German Gestapo Inter-War Police or the East German Stasi can compare to this NPU, so once again, it's high time we shut it down.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u28	Well, with these recent comparisons, I do not agree, but it does not reduce the criticism or justification of some of the things you said earlier and I have commented on them in part. That way, this institution can't go any further. As we know here, all those who have considered the report of the two investigative commissions in the last decade or in the last decade and a half of the crime of a large scale, where there has been, I don't know, a billion money laundering for the terrorist regime and commissions have gone unknown where there has been, I would say, billions or hundreds of millions of places in the procurement of medical equipment, and not one single tangible result of an investigation by the National Investigation Office in this regard, nor one serious indictment or one indictment. Nothing. At the same time, there are many different activities that have ignited in such a way that the camera, or television, was on the scene of the house’s investigations before the investigators. It was a big thing, and then it either didn't happen or it all fell down because it was politically motivated. In these matters it is not four questions, the latter is a key issue, it is said, a problem of politicisation. It is a problem of politicising the work of the Slovenian criminal police, which is used to deal with political opponents. Precisely according to a paragraph that still deserved Professor Ljubo Bavcon wrote, the introduction of the Criminal Procedure Act, somewhere in the mid-80s, that the criminal police and the judiciary are the means to oppress a class enemy, is said to be a political opponent. Now we have not completely expelled this spirit from these structures in Slovenia, so there is a selective right and abuse of state institutions for political purposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u29	Thank you. My friend Jelinčič, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u30	President, in accordance with Article 246 I propose that the National Assembly vote on the debate in this event.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The next question will be asked by colleague Joseph Horvat to the Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government, distinguished ministerial assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues! New Slovenia has joined this coalition and the government because we want to make things better with coalition partners. We want to provide prosperity for everyone. In doing so, of course, we want to follow our fundamental political agenda, which stands on four pillars — human dignity, freedom, justice and security. We want to do what could not be done because no one had the courage, knowledge, and political will to bite into it. New Slovenia remains on the side of entrepreneurship, labour and creative Slovenia. Our first objective is therefore to create an enabling business environment. Predominance and bureaucracy stifle and limit us all who want to put Slovenia on the map of the most developed countries in the world. We are not interested in another Switzerland, we are interested in the first Slovenia. With the intervention measures we have succeeded, we have already managed from the drawers and Omar to revive more than 400 ready-to-go projects. Thank God with PKP projects we managed to maintain about 300,000 jobs. We welcome, Mr President, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also taken into account the New Slovenia proposal and that we have finally received the Strategic Council for Debarcation in the Tax, Economic and Environment and Space. If we want to create an enabling environment in Slovenia to be worth working and investing, such changes are necessary and necessary. Dear Mr. President of the Government, I ask you: How the Strategic Council for Debarcation, led by the Magi, will work. Ivan Simich? What are its specific objectives? Mr President, when can we expect the first results? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u33	Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u34	Thank you so much for asking. The world's already working. We got our first midterm report a few days ago. It follows from this report that, according to the assessment of this Strategic Council, it is possible for a certain part of the bureaucratic obstacles to be reduced this year, it is said that we will start a new environment with less red tape mainly in the tax, economic and environmental fields as of 1 January of the following year. Of course, it is a complex work, it cannot be done in one step and, of course, the world will continue to work. If the situation with the crown allows us or leaves enough room for manoeuvre, we will deal with the first guidelines for debarcation in the Government before parliamentary holidays, so that the preparation of concrete acts or legal solutions can start in the summer. At this first stage, most of the proposals for de-de-barcation made in the tax area, where there is much to simplify, are improved. Better results can also be expected if the economic sector or the business sector is less burdened by bureaucracy. So, even for public finances, this is a situation that is better, it says, it is a win-win situation. In the Strategic World, there are people from practice who know the subject. Representatives of the state institutions, which are obliged to prepare these solutions in the second phase, are already participating in the first phase and we can also talk about these deadlines. As we know, from some previous mandates, ambitions have also been very high, but in four years no proposals have been made. We've narrowed it down as much as possible. I personally estimate that by eliminating the majority or much of this bureaucratic coating, it is possible to increase Slovenia's gross domestic product by at least 1%. So much of this is lost and so many of these obstacles are completely unnecessary. Every week, with each government meeting, we discover new and a list of what needs to be changed, only longer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u35	Thank you. My friend Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u36	Mr President, thank you for all these explanations. Sounds encouraging. I hope that, in fact, all these objectives of the government's strategic council, the coalition, will indeed be resolved in due course. We both certainly agree that it is a well-functioning economy, which is why we are talking so much about it, also a prerequisite for financing the social state and, of course, family policies. And for New Slovenia, the issue of family policy is very important, and in this context the creation of a demographic fund. We understand the demographic fund as an institution, as a fund that will not only care for older people, of course also for older people, but not only for older people, but mainly for improving the demographic image of Slovenia. We all know that Slovenian society is, unfortunately, within the European Union a society that is the fastest growing old in Europe, and we must stop these trends. In this regard, Mr President, I am interested in: When can we expect the realization of the commitment under the Coalition Treaty to introduce free kindergarten for other and subsequent children, which is a very important content for New Slovenia as enshrined in the Coalition Treaty? Thank you very much for these explanations and answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u37	President of the Government, you have the floor to supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u38	Thank you very much. You're right, the demographic fund is essentially concerned that we're not always fewer, but more and more, that's the basic purpose of setting up. Inside this is the provision of a stable source of pensions, which is the payment of past work, but also the activities needed to ensure that taxpayers are not always less, but that there will be more if I express myself very technically. So it is a complex issue concerning the pension population that concerns family policy, the young generation to stay at home, not to go out abroad with a belly for bread or that it does not need to, and, of course, requires an active population, which, due to the solidarity system, is full of health and pension funds and also of the budget. Demographic policy is actually a complex policy that practically affects everything. That is why we also have in the coalition contract this obligation to set up a government demography office that will horizontally coordinate all these necessary measures. Strategically, demographics are also recognised within the European Union as the most important topic, so this is at the summit in this programme of the current five-year term of office of the European Commission. And what Slovenia is doing is not really something lonely, but it is the work of the vast majority of the Member States of the European Union. With regard to the specific issue of subsidisation of kindergartens also for all those children who do not have it now, the coalition contract here is clear. I think the first draft of the regulation is ready for coordination. If everything goes according to the programmes, this commitment will be realized in the following year.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 18th meeting of the National Assembly. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr. Anže Logar, should answer the questions raised by Vojk Starović regarding the Slovenian national minority in Trieste and Jožet Lenart regarding the role and activities of the Republic of Slovenia at the 100th anniversary of the Koroška plebiscite. Since Dr. Ange Logar is absent today, I ask the MP if you insist on an oral response, or do you want a written reply from the minister? My friend Josie Lenart? I don't see my buddy Straovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u40	Yes, unfortunately, the Slovenians of Korea are not fortunate enough to receive an answer from the Foreign Minister in view of the current nature of this issue, as 100 years of plebiscite will be 10 October 2020. I want this answer to be still oral, probably at the September session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The Minister will answer the question orally at the next meeting of the assembly. Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar will answer the question of mag. Andrey Reich in connection with the operation of a grey eclipse. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u42	Nice greetings to all, honourable Members, Members of Parliament, Comrade Minister, Ministers! The question referred to the possibility of stopping the dioptria lens as part of a grey marble operation. Now I must say that the question is essentially very professional, more likely for any ophthalmologist specialist, but I will try to answer it anyway. First of all, we need to know that in each operation, the grey darkened dioptria lens changes routinely, by stopping the monofocal lens, which is adapted for close or distant vision. If the possibility of implanting multifocal intraocular lenses is considered by this question, then of course I must say first that in this case it is not a routine procedure, as is usually the case with the operation of a grey marble. First of all, such an intervention is significantly more expensive, three to five times higher costs, not only on the lens, but also all the preparations needed for such an operation. In fact, it is a much more complex approach, more precise measurements are needed, adaptation individually to an individual patient, it is also necessary to exclude any remaining ocular pathology and, of course, the post-operative process is more demanding and longer-term monitoring is needed. If all of this is not available, there may, of course, be more complications here. This is the reason that this is not standard care in Slovenia, and most of the time not in other countries. Usually, it is a superstandard service for those who choose to do so and who are prepared for this longer procedure. I say again, I don't know if that's exactly what this question meant, but it would actually require the answer of an experienced ophthalmologist than I did of the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Comrade Reich, would you like to request a supplement to your answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u44	Dear Minister, thank you very much for your answer. The fact is that this is a non-standard procedure that is currently not covered by health insurance. My question was also very clear. In Slovenia, about 20,000 operations are carried out annually. It's one of the more frequent eye surgeries. This means that about 10,000 of our fellow citizens, mostly over 55 years of age, are subject to this intervention every year. And my question is very clear and is essentially in the direction of rationalising procedures. A citizen who has a gray dark and also has dioptry should, at least in my view, be allowed to pay the difference in the cost of the operation if the procedure is already under way. I've been subjected to this kind of intervention myself. The investigations that are being conducted are not particularly complicated. Postoperative care, because it is an operation that has a high degree of effectiveness, practically does not exist except for an eye exam. I think it goes in this case when the operative doesn't have to wear glasses or contact lenses for multiple savings. We must be aware that for certain levels of dioptry, shortsightedness, farsightedness, astigmatism, i.e. cylinders, presbiopies are given to optical devices which can also cost more than 100 euros and are partly covered by the insurance company. In this case, the State, the State budget and the insurance undertaking would therefore be free of long-term costs if the price difference were allowed to be paid to the insurer. This is therefore essentially a matter to which a health insurance company should respond, not so many operators and operators. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u46	Yes, look, if we are now discussing whether or not the cost should be recognised by the Institute of Health Insurance, then of course the opinions are shared here. But as I'm told, in most countries, as I've been informed, it's a superstandard service. As far as the professional work is concerned, I responded in the context, as ophthalmologists have suggested, which carry out these interventions. I, of course, find it difficult to add anything in this sense. I trust the professional criteria, of course, and if they claim that the procedure is significantly more demanding to the patient, then I believe this work. As it is said, once again, whether this could be a service that could be fully covered by compulsory health insurance is likely to be discussed and, above all, the available resources for this. This can probably be discussed elsewhere, in particular within the framework of the CFSP.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Comrade Reich, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u48	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because I have not received an answer to the question and because I believe that the topic is very important, I ask for a discussion on this subject. In doing so, I would like to say that I have been approached by pensioners who were shortsighted and were subject to this operation and were offered an operation to eliminate diophria but without the possibility of payment. They had the option of free operation of grey dunes, but had no opportunity to pay the difference in this operation up to the price for dioptria lens, so other occult operators offered simultaneously the elimination of dioptria. This is my idea, which is a very important topic, which is the year-long throng of more than 10,000 of our fellow citizens, in the four years of 40,000, in the ten years around 100,000, so it is one city of Maribor's great order. And it is a topic that would make a huge contribution to the public treasury in this debate. So I ask that we discuss this in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We are moving on to Questions of Members and Members. The first is a colleague of Tina Heferle, who will ask the Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u50	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice greetings, Mr. Secretary and everyone else! My question relates to the current situation, i.e. the new coronavirus. Otherwise, we are Slovenians by nature a good and obedient nation — this proved to be at the time of the first wave of the coronavirus and at the time of the declared epidemic in the country — but, however, if a person has closely followed the government communication of both politicians and professional colleagues, such as epidemiologists and, above all, of the official government speaker, he may have become, to say the least, confused. Before I ask my question, let me briefly root out why this confusion between people and how outside this government communication works. First of all, let's say the Balkans are the new Italy, which is the evil country from which we got the virus. At the same time, we can see in the media the voice that advises this government that we should close the border with Croatia long ago that we are already very late or too late when we have an open day. Then, on the other hand, another voice speaking on behalf of the Government, explaining that the neighbouring Croatia, that is, the Balkan state, is not yet ripe to be included first on the yellow list, today on the red list. Then we can track the calculations and figures that are supposed to place countries on the so-called red, yellow, or green lists, and those tens who are sick per hundred thousand inhabitants. However, when Croatia crosses this magical limit, the interpretation of this figure changes and the conditions for listing for Croatia become increasingly less stringent, despite the warnings of Mrs Beović's chief epidemiologist. Although the country is now, as we know, on the yellow list, we are all probably justifiably wondering if it is ripe for the red list. Finally, some government advisors, at the time of possible entry into Croatia, advise only to maintain some social distance, wash their hands and disinfection, and so on, caution others before leaving or even advise them, and again, thirdly, they do not see the reason for not going to the Adriatic and claim that the quarantine upon return is a sufficient measure. In short, for someone who regularly monitors and faithfully follows the government’s position accompanying the media, such communication can be misleading or even more misleading, a person who would like to make responsible decisions about his conduct may be confused by such communication. Therefore, Minister Gantar, I ask you: Whom should our people listen to, whom should they believe in all this flood of information? Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Beović, perhaps Mr. Kacin or you as the competent Minister of Health? Which one of these is the most reliable?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u51	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u52	Thank you so much for asking. Look, the purpose of everyone who tries to convince everyone that we respect the measures is to limit the spread of this infection. It is still necessary to know that this is an infection that is relatively new. We have gained some experience in recent months and, of course, with measures, we have also managed to control this infection, of course with measures that we have all respected to the greatest extent possible. And I would say, first of all, that advice is very important, despite all the differences. Of course, I always believe in the profession and respect the profession in the first place, and I also try to defend it in my place and in view of the fact that I am a doctor. What are the most effective measures, but it is clear that we have talked about them much, and you yourself have mentioned them. And I think there are no special differences here, of course. It is important to know, however, that, after this experience that we have had and which has, after all, had major consequences in all areas, we can think in advance, first of all, that we will probably have to start living with this virus and that we will probably not be able to afford it in the same way if the situation is to be significantly worse, significantly harder. The additional experience for action is, of course, the current way of spreading whether the second wave is or is not, as we call it, slightly different from that of the first wave, so sometimes the instructions of the little one may be directed in one direction or another. But generally, as it is said: avoiding crowds, distance social, using masks, disinfecting hands, we repeat this all the time as a red thread and in fact it is a key measure to limit infection. About the journey abroad, about Croatia. Of course, we caution about travelling to countries where the infection is significantly higher, while we are aware that there can be considerable differences within these countries as well. That the criteria for safety or danger according to the possibility of infection are different is a fact. We take into account the standard data that you yourself mentioned: up to 10, 10-40, over 40 for the yellow, green and red country. Therefore, we also give instructions. The fact is, of course, if we behave dangerously in Slovenia and safely in the Republic of Croatia, we will infect ourselves at home. In this part, we tried to be more open - minded or more tolerant of those who travel abroad. It seems to me that such a restriction on movement is actually of international importance and also of great importance to our citizens. That is why, of course, we have tried to limit the border crossings by the profession before. Personally, I would be most pleased that this border would not now be as temporary as it is today, given that we still know that the largest number of infections, of course, comes from the countries of the Western Balkans, including Croatia. On the other hand, we will probably only have to reach one agreement in the international community on how we will do this work in the future, given that we will be involved in a certain number of infected as soon as possible. And while this is manageable, there is no reason for us to actually take difficult measures again. I would appeal once again to respect these basic points we are talking about, and also to the current results, I think that certain security is for all of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u53	Hefferle, you have the floor for a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am particularly pleased with your position on crossing the border with Croatia. However, I cannot avoid some numbers that we can monitor every day both in the media and on the NIJ website. On Saturday, for example, we had the most infections since April 16, 34 on newly confirmed cases and 256 active cases. Now, if memory doesn't deceive me, the numbers were slightly smaller at the beginning of March, which was then 33 infections and only 82 were actively infected. Let me remind you that the current government has been strongly communicating at that time, that by declaring the Sharchev epidemic, the government is seriously late to take some measures, such as closing the border and banning visits to nursing homes, etc. The numbers today are, as we say, bigger than then, that's a fact. If we look at, say, the number of infections in Croatia and compare them proportionally with the number of infections in Italy at the time of the first wave, we need to know that in Italy there are 60 million people, in Croatia 4 million, one wonders whether this government is taking sufficient responsible measures or not. In my opinion, even on the ground, the question is what is behind the decision not to close the border with Croatia. So I ask you all this, Mr Minister, in the light of your position, which you had at the time of the first wave and the Government's position, as it is today, when we know that, say, numbers are substantially different than then or even larger. I want to know: So when did you think you were wrong to communicate with the public, today or then, in March?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u55	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Now, it may be necessary to know that, of course, the situation as regards the rise in the number of infected people in our country today is significantly different than it was at the beginning of the epidemic. At that time, the number of infected people grew exponentially, and virtually every other day the number doubled. Now this doubling time has been with us, and the numbers have calmed down for about six and a half to seven days, by making us richer for experience, so that when we take strict action, of course we can calm things down. In addition, we need to know that these numbers, the number of infected per 100,000 inhabitants in 14 days, were at that time significantly higher than they were in the case of Croatia or, of course, in the case of Slovenia at this time. We're now on the number about 10, a little over, it's on the border with the green area. Croatia is about 25, says 25 infections per 100,000 to 14 days, which has not yet reached the criterion of the red zone and is likely to be gone for another time. If we are as consistent as we are, of course we should not close our borders under this criterion. However, we have put in place certain measures that are. It would be very difficult to ban our citizens from going abroad, even to Croatia, with these numbers that we have. In addition, the number present today, which has also been a criterion for the release of measures, is how many people one person infects, is already moving around one another again at this point, a trifle across, which is a good information. But we had about two days ago. So the situation with us simply does not allow us to have the arguments we need to have if we are to take such measures and defend them from a professional point of view. On the other hand, the numbers of Croatia are still in an area that does not justify very rigorous measures, although I must say that from a professional point of view this is of course concerned, because the trend of growth is still there and therefore our warnings about behaviour and avoidance and behaviour in the event of a transition to Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Colleague, okay? Let's move on. Next comes a colleague of Mojca Škrinjar, who will question the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u58	Thank you very much. First of all, congratulations to seniors and graduates for achievement, teaching and leadership and the Ministry of Excellent Graduates! I ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport: How will the ministry take action to protect the good name and reputation of teaching after teacher Gregor Markič has defamed it with his extremely unworthy conduct against Prešern's monument on a pre-festive day at the edge of the national celebration? The teacher shall be a public servant bound by the Civil Service Code and shall be a educator at the same time. By his example, he cultivates it, whether in business or in leisure, for he is actually a public figure. The teacher or teacher is a model for his students and students, students and students. In addition to professional and ethical requirements, the teacher’s profession brings responsibility. Do you, Minister, consider systemic measures against similar phenomena described? Will you invite representative unions to prepare a special ethical code for educators and teachers? I also ask: Does the minister know whether the school inspectorate has already acted on the unworthy conduct of the teacher? Please, if possible, provide us with a report after the inspection and also on whether there are other cases of insults to the teaching profession that the inspection has dealt with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u59	Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u60	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Member Škrynjar, for the question raised. Given that we are limited in time, allow me to go directly to this particular case that you are asking. But I'm going to divide it into two parts, one part, let's say, a normative-operational one, and another, which you've named very well as an example, looks like some kind of ethics and this kind of responsibility and the profession that teachers and teachers are doing. As far as this particular case is concerned, we are talking about this event at the Education and Sport Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, through the website portal for the submission of anonymous reports to the inspection services of 27. 6. 2020 received an anonymous initiative indicating what was going on with the teacher in question 24. 6. 2020 in the Prešern Square. After examining the case itself, in accordance with Article 2 of the School Inspection Act, the Inspectorate also considered the initiative and, in accordance with the powers of the Inspectorate, informed the Director of the event itself, because we know that it is an employee who is half-employed in primary school and half-time in high school, he briefed both Directors on the event. They have also responded very responsibly, and they have responded in a very positive way. They also referred back to ensuring that all necessary protection measures are implemented, including in this case children, adolescents in relation to that individual. They called educational conferences, the world of parents, including the diocese communities. In short, again within the limits of its powers, it also responded here. Also, on the website of the Education and Sports Inspectorate, we resigned the matter only in a competent resolution to the police or the Ljubljana Center Police Station, which happened 30. 6. 2020. Now, if I move on to the second set that, as you have already pointed out, there are quite a few different ethics and codes of ethical action in the field of education, we have also signed them as a country. One of the most important ethical codes is the Code of Vocational Ethics Education International, which is also adopted by the Mother Code of Education and Education. Let me just say what these ethical codes are, to see how many we have, and yet things are happening that we need to talk about now: the Code of Conduct for Public Servants, the Ethics of Public Servants in Public Authorities and the Administrative Authorities of Local Communities, these are fundamental and then defined as agreements within the schools themselves. Why is this happening? Because of this, in fact, we need to distinguish that there are obviously multiple types of responsibilities that we bear in each one of us. One is the responsibility and commitment to professional work and the rules in this connection, and the other is the responsibility of what is decent, what is right and what is wrong. And in this light, in particular this particular case, I think that the very response of other teachers and teachers to this particular event has been sufficient for the individual mentioned to ask himself again what he wants to do in his life. You know the responses were very incriminating. Teachers and teachers do not understand this activity; they view it as very, very wrong and inappropriate for the profession and for the mission that teachers have. They're teachers and by mission, you're people who do your job 24 hours.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by colleague Franz Kramar, the Minister without a portfolio responsible for development and the EU cohesion policy of Zvonku Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u62	Thank you very much, President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In its consideration of the report on the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy for the period from January 2014 to the end of March 2020, it is stated that Slovenia recorded certified expenditure totalling €133 million for the European part during the fourth phase of drawing up European funds, which is 37 % of the available resources. Let me remind you that in the current financial framework 2014-2020, a good EUR 351 billion is earmarked for cohesion policy, which is about a third of the budget of the European Union. The Slovenian envelope was difficult for this financial perspective of around EUR 3.3 billion. I want to know: How much money have we absorbed on 31 June 2020? How are the negotiations for the future financial perspective under way? What projects as a minister do you consider to be priorities? Cohesion policy is one of the fundamental policies of the European Union aimed at reducing differences between regions. This is a support policy for more than 100,000 projects across Europe and European funds provide an additional opportunity for Slovenia to grow faster, achieve development goals and strengthen economic potential. We have been inadvertently hit by an outbreak of covid-19 disease, but this must not be an excuse for the insufficient use of European funds. Project calls did not stop, nor did construction work. How successful were you in your ministry during the official epidemic? Since the start of the new government, what have you achieved as Minister? I add that there is still a major obstacle to the absorption of European funds between ministries, which can lead to the collapse of development projects. What are you or will you do as a minister to make the ministries more cooperative? At the time our SVRK led, i.e. the SAB team of ministers, we were able to save the EUR 183 million at risk, and employees in this service have also made significant improvements in the EMA information system. This now enables reliable recording and data storage. In January this year, progress on the information system was also confirmed by the European Commission and withdrawn the forecast of a possible temporary suspension of payments. Also, your predecessor, Dr Angelika Mlinar, at her first official visit to Brussels at the end of January, said that Slovenia was above average when it came to drawing on all European funds. Dear Minister, we are aware that many challenges remain, but we are interested in: How will you accelerate the dynamics of European spending? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u64	Thank you very much for this question and the opportunity to say once again some things related to this current financial perspective as well as to the future financial perspective. I can share most of the findings with you. As far as the latter is concerned, we are very successful in drawing on the statement that it was made by my predecessor, Dr. Angelika Mlinar, and I wouldn't exactly share that opinion. You also know that, even at the time I was your colleague myself, in the last year and a half, we talked about this and that we all quite unitedly agreed that pumping in this perspective is worse than it could have been, and that it is worse than pumping in the perspective 2007-2013. I have said that we are no longer dealing with the past, but we must look to the future mainly because we have been faced with a different, specific situation in this year of the pandemic, or the covid-19 epidemic, which puts us at one new challenge, one new situation, particularly with regard to the announcement made by the President of the European Commission on 27 May this year, regarding additional means of recovery. During this programming period, Slovenia, as you yourself have mentioned, has some less than €3 billion 100 million. By the end of June, the decision on support was signed around EUR 2.8 billion, representing 91% of the available resources. Some €2.3 billion, 73% and €1.21 billion and 39% of the available resources, are being implemented and paid to beneficiaries. The negotiations for the next financial perspective are chaired by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Of course, the SVRK is actively involved in this context. An interdepartmental working group at the level of State secretaries has been assigned, and the SVRK professional services coordinate the interdepartmental preparation of documents. I must say, when we arrived, we did not get some real bases that were useful for the future. For this reason, we had to prepare all the draft documents for the next financial perspective 2021-2027 for a new one. The first drafts of the Partnership Agreement are already being forwarded to the European Commission and coordination with the Commission. Of course, all other stakeholders are also involved. In July and August, we will accelerate these activities and the ambition is to start the programming period. The timetable for the operational programme for the following is December this year. This is particularly important because, during this programming period, we have drawn on these funds very unevenly. For example, the first draw was only in 2016, although the outlook started in 2014, amounting to 116.7 million, then in 2017 213.5, 2018 300.7 and last year EUR 344 million. The budget for this year provides for a drawdown of €671 million, but our estimate estimates that this estimate is too optimistic, and it is realistic to estimate that the pumping will be around €500 million, which is about € 160 million higher than it was last year. When we were hit by the covid-19 pandemic and this lockdown, which was not only in Slovenia, but all over Europe and the world, you know that the European Commission has proposed and adopted amendments to the regulations in March and April. The aim was mainly to redistribute existing resources for co-vids. We have also done this and have made it possible to redistribute around €270 million for employment conservation programmes, support for the economy, support for health care and some other areas, and of course all ministries have not so far affected after these transfers. In doing so, we have maintained the implementation of all other projects. None of the other projects have been compromised and will not be in the future. Activities are underway. In the next three months, however, it will be essential to cut down substantially into the legislation in force and into the sub-legislative acts if we are to successfully conclude not only this financial perspective, but in particular all that Slovenia is to receive under the means to remedy the consequences of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by colleague Matej Udovč, Minister of Environment and the Magi. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u66	Your Honor! My question concerns the problem of regulating the old landfill of industrial and mixed municipal wastes near the Laze area in The Watchtower near Kranj. The municipality of Kranj informed me in detail that there is an old landfill of industrial and mixed municipal waste, which has been dumped over the years by all major economic operators from the Kranj industrial pool. Waste has been buried for many years in the soil and the entire area has grown with the forest. The landfill represents a large environmental time bomb for the environment and the surrounding population. We must be aware that, over time, the protective packaging will begin to decompose and leave dangerous substances in nearby watercourses, the Frog’s Creek and the Watchtower Reservoir, or into the environment, all the way to the ground in the Sorški Field. This old landfill is also located in the Natura 2000 area, a European network of specific protection areas aimed at the conservation of rare and endangered animal and plant habitats at European level, and this issue is therefore of particular concern both for the environment and for citizens of environmental settlements. At the initiative of concerned citizens, the Municipality of Kranj decided in 2014 to carry out all the necessary activities to determine the actual state of natural and environmental threats and the general environmental burden. In the company Geomet Izola ordered a inventory of the state of the watercourses and the collection of samples for chemical analysis. Measurements of chemical parameters in water and mud have shown an excess of the limit values of chemical and biochemical oxygen requirements. These were 15 times as high as the permitted values. Similar observations are made by the surrounding population, who monitor nearby watercourses. In one of the tributaries of the Toad in the water there is virtually no sense of life. It is absolutely necessary to establish a water sample in this area, an analysis of land and waste itself. I'm asking you: Are you familiar with the problem of the old Laza landfill in The Watchtower near Kranj? Are you aware of the possible consequences for the environment and the surrounding population in the event of a major undercurrent leakage of hazardous substances from the landfill? How will you deal with this problem in the future? Will you provide funds for recovery in the budget? Are you thinking about specific NRPs intended exclusively for the rehabilitation of degraded areas? Can we expect the State to provide at least funds for regular monitoring of watercourses, analysis of land and waste itself in this area, given that most of the landfill is owned by the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u68	Dear Member, thank you very much for your question. Indeed, in this Republic of Slovenia there are a lot of old burdens, vastly degraded areas, which have been the result of pollution from recent years and decades, but from the past century. This case is also from the 1970s when the landfill ceased to operate and has never been regulated in accordance with the requirements of environmental and sanitary regulations. For the area, the Municipality of Kranj must carry out all relevant procedures for spatial acts, sewerage arrangements and the like. At present, we also have in the public hearing a regulation on the water protection area, the regime for the capture of drinking water of the Sorško Polje, which provides that, as long as no sewage is built in the area of the Laze industrial zone, no new construction and reconstruction of non-residential buildings is prohibited in this area. In future budgets, the ILO will also allocate financial resources to carry out so-called field investigations in areas where there is a potential risk to the environment. The meeting between the State Secretary of the Ministry of Environment and the Mayor of the Municipality of Kranj was held on 28 May this year. At this meeting, the mayor highlighted the problem of financing the monitoring and impact of the landfill, which would also show the impact of the landfill on the Zabnica stream. We agreed at that time until Arso will check the possibility of carrying out research monitoring in order to actually determine the environmental impact. We agreed to reconvene the meeting at the end of August. So this particular problem is ongoing, we will try to somehow co-finance and direct it, but without the very active role of the city congregation, it will not work. We get the feeling that this is also the case, so it is said that the Municipality of Kranj wants to participate actively in this. However, honourable Members, I would like to remind you of the systemic problem, it erupts here and there, and at every end of Slovenia we face these old burdens, probably from your fellow Member Celje, as a result of mining, say Žirovski Vrh, Idrija and so on. Indeed, the recovery of this environmental damage from the past decades will need to be systematically addressed. We are also preparing for this, or will also present, systemic solutions in cooperation with other departments in this mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, colleague widower?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u70	Dear Minister, thank you very much for your answer. Certainly, as I have already asked in my question, one of the questions for the recovery of degraded areas where I thought, as you have already said in your reply, for the whole of Slovenia, because these areas are quite large. Therefore, it is certainly right for you to think when you say that a systematic approach to solving such problems will be needed. Thank you very much for your answers. I believe that you understand that there are two problems in the area of the Laze Turn Zone, one problem is that you mentioned, the Laze Turn Zone itself, where we have problems with the import path and sewerage, and the other problem is that I highlighted it, and that's by the Laze Turn Zone, and this is an old landfill, but thank you very much for the answers and I believe that together we will find the best solutions for the recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Any other additions? No, no, no. The following is your colleague, Dusan Šiško, who will question the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u72	Your Honor! The proposal for amendments to the Law on Courts, prepared by your Ministry and the Supreme Court, should also include the abolition of the District Courts. Because I come from the outskirts of the country, specifically from Posavje, such proposals and information particularly affect me. According to my data and also on the basis of what we can monitor in the media, district courts are not the problem of our judicial system, these courts are more burdensome with work than district and higher, and they have no special backlogs for a long time. With almost 80% of the cases under review, their quality of work is also demonstrated. Dear Minister: Do you support this proposal for the reorganisation of the judiciary and in particular the abolition of the network of District Courts? What are you basing that on? On the basis of what analyses should the new system of justice be better and more effective?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u73	Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u74	Thank you for your words and thank you for the question, honourable Member. Let me tell you immediately in the introduction, even if there is a proposal for a government or a National Assembly, there is no provision for the abolition of district and district courts, nor will any location change. If I touch history a little bit, how did this idea of reorganization come about? In 1994, when it was built at the time and was essentially a wider district, the result showed that there was more backlog, and a new reorganisation was made in 2009, which was mainly a management tool and a concentration of administrative tasks in the District Court, meaning the staffing and financial area, so that the district seats were unloaded in this part. And of course, the annual report on the implementation of the judiciary shows that these decisions were in the right direction and also produce results. In fact, this was an extension for possible further changes, nor will I talk about reorganisation because it is not a reorganisation. You asked me on what basis. Here are the Council of Europe guidelines, which have already been adopted in 2016, as well as the Villa Declaration, which lists in the ten segments what needs to be taken into account for possible changes in the courts in order to make these courts even more effective and, above all, more accessible to people. But I wouldn't mention all of these. When I came to the Ministry of Justice, I took a look at the material provided for, and I therefore find out the following. As I said before, it doesn't change and the locational doesn't shut down any county court. Everyone would belong to the county, stay in their places, and also not change in the higher courts, only in Krška would it be from Kršek, as far as matters of the jurisdiction of the higher court, which is now responsible for Ljubljana, would go to Celje because it is very large in Ljubljana and they do not control everything, but it is all in line with the courts. What are the reasons for Slovenia's accession to the amendment? As you said, district courts are not problematic, because in the final stage the district is not problematic. The reason, however, is that the number of cases in the District Courts is getting smaller and more and more in the District Courts. Of course, the result is that we have too little and too little in the district courts. For example, on the last visit to Celje, I was told that ten judges in the district courts were too few and ten in the district. How were these cases handled in the past? So they assigned judges to the district court, but that's only allowed for a certain period. As a result of the prolonged distribution of judges as permitted, the annulment of judgments may also be, for it is a judgment of a judge who is not a legal judge because they have exceeded those hands. The advantage, therefore, would be that all judges involved in the district would be able to perform all the tasks. It would be significantly easier to allocate both judges and cases and, above all, a greater specialisation of the individual judge would be achieved. Today, they are being tried in one legal area in the morning, in another legal area in the afternoon, and they are not such specialists. However, greater specialisation can mean greater quality of decision-making as well as smaller backlogs and higher speeds. A number of countries have already gone into this reform, but they have gone in a way of abolishing them, namely the Netherlands, Denmark, France, Finland, Croatia, Portugal. This would not be the case with us, but only if things were to work differently. But let me just say this: this is not coalition-coordinated, and the coalition needs to be checked to see if it agrees. Of course, you are also part of the coordination because you signed the agreement. We can propose professionally and in the end there will be a political decision whether this will happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Comrade Shisko, you have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u76	Thank you, Minister, for your answers, they were very specific. Look, I'm gonna start like this: Are the authors of the proposed reorganisation aware that in this case there would be major problems for both customers and employees, particularly in the countryside? You mentioned Krška to connect him to Celje. Look, Krsko is 54 kilometers away from Celje. Yes, but for God's sake, isn't there any court closer to Celje to cover those sins from the previous governments that you have to come from Krskov, from where I come from? Good thing you didn't remember to take Igor from Brežice and move him to Celje. Look, I can't get past this. In particular, for people living in smaller places who have relatively poor traffic connections, even in this case I do not know if these applicants have looked anything in this direction. Furthermore, older people are accustomed to arranging more business together, the legacy treatment, and going into the land book, that everything is in one place. Now we're gonna move them again, something here, something there; I don't know where that's gonna lead. In the event of the abolition of the District Courts, economic damage would also result from the discharge of the facilities in which the District Courts are located, and they are to the greatest extent owned and invested in the State. In time, these buildings will be abandoned, and we'll be able not to say where. Finally, the abolition would mean the further relocation of highly educated staff from smaller places to larger ones and thus their impoverishment. And I'd like to ask for those answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u77	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u78	Thank you. Let me just say this one more time. I don't think we got the right idea. District courts, say, buildings and people, stay where they are, don't move, people don't go anywhere. For humans, it is still equally accessible, only by getting judges where they may have less work to do, what matters more to solve. That's all this is about. It's not about removing one of the courts. As far as Krskov is concerned, once again, it is only a matter of a higher court, where the parties usually do not go, that is the case in the Senate. Even now, when it comes to Ljubljana, the parties do not participate in debates in court, very rarely, but these are indeed exceptions. In this case, the parties would not be harmed. The judges stay on site, the premises are still filled. It's just that the judges would get a little more warrants because they have fewer than the judges in the district courts. That's all they need to do is make it easier for them to assign assignments. And of course, as I have already said, this will be the subject of coalition coordination and, of course, the decision will, of course, be political.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Comrade Shisko, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u80	Thank you. It's true, everything is just like you said. We in Posavia have lost so many institutions of regional importance because of these fightings on both the left and now the mixed governments. They left Posavje. And now there's one more thing you'd like to do for us. Believe me, if we're signatories, you won't take Krskov away from us, I guarantee you that now. For we cannot forget in Posavia that, not this government, the state has taken over the police administration. We have a number of problems. Now there are migrants, there are Roma, there are Albanians, there are all kinds, but that's not today's topic. And I really don't know why you always pick on Posavia. Do something the other way, because before the elections are spoken, we will, we will not centralise the country, we will not, you will centralize it. But when there are elections, all the parties, from left to right, to the last speaking, will not be centralisation, decentralisation will be. That's certainly not the way it is. And I find it really hard to believe that you will be able to reconcile yourself in the coalition for such matters. Because if they do 80% in the first degree, then we know where it goes. But then why do they have to shake each other? Because it throws the second-degree back in first-degree. And this is this path position that you want, what I'm assuming, to terminate and that it will only be one degree and then go up. Since the reform of the judiciary is a very important process that has far-reaching implications for the Slovenian state and society in general, I propose that we hold a broad debate in the Parliament of the State under Article 246, although I have a feeling that Members do not want it, because in the end it does not bring anything, we will only discuss it, maybe I will sit in here, and there will be some other Members, and we will never have a conclusion from this. But since the law allows this and the rules of procedure, I have used these last three minutes to propose this article, even though I know that of any Members in this mandate, maybe four of us have had some kind of discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The following question will be posed by colleague Jože Lenart to the Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Širtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u82	Thank you very much, President. Dear Minister, it's been two weeks since the end of June, and there's still not much to be heard about the fact that it's already in life. I'm aware that during this time you've been working on saving lives, getting equipment, masks, respirators, so I'm gonna take this for a lease. Now let's leave these hands. What seems far more problematic to me is that the concept of the planned demographic fund, according to the known information so far, foresees a pooling of all state investments. I have a few questions about this. The problem could arise if the demographic fund was to recapitalise companies or buy shares. Under this assumption, how will the demographic fund nominate its assets over the next 20 years? How long is his hibernation supposed to last? How will he generate a return if some companies generate a negative return? Direct state-owned companies are also those established by special law, as they carry out specific tasks, including concessions. According to the European Directive, direct state-owned companies have the status of domestic operators, which means, inter alia, that they do not have to go through the tendering process when granting concessions. Such companies include 2TKK, Slovenian State Forests, DRI, which are already managed by the Government. Moreover, these could also be Dars and Slovenian railways, since, for example, the law expressly states that the State is the founder. The transfer to the Fund could also be difficult due to European rules in Eles, Sod and Borzen. For the European Directive requires separation of supply or production from infrastructure. These companies are therefore not already managed by SDH. In addition, in the country's capital investment management strategy, some companies are classified as strategic because they are pursuing other socially important objectives and not just creating profits. Do you intend to force such companies to make profits? Why else would it be in the demographic fund, unless the establishment of a demographic fund is in such a way a reflection of the desire to make a complete replacement of people who will then decide who will sit in the supervisory councils of our societies? In the interests of future generations, I should add that I strongly hope that you will not propose to the Supervisory Board, as you did last year's proposal, that you should propose to the Group of Members. And finally, I'm interested. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u84	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Thank you so much for asking about the demographic fund. Here, of course, is more of a question than I understand why we should not set up a demographic fund, than why we should set up this demographic fund, at least as a result of this question when a number of companies have been listed, how they do not belong, or why they should not belong, or why something would actually happen in order to go to the demographic fund. In short, here I understand that the intention of the coalition, as well as the recording of the coalition, to establish a demographic fund, raises many concerns on the one hand. Notwithstanding the fact that, of course, this demographic fund is already laid down by the 2019 Regulation, namely, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which was adopted at the end of 2012, provides that compulsory pension insurance is also financed by the demographic fund. This should be settled under this law by 2014. And then, under the Slovenian State Holding Act, Kad should be transformed into an independent autonomous demographic reserve fund by 31 December 2015 at the latest. And then, of course, we can conclude here that all governments so far, this ZPIZ-2, which we are talking about, where the legal commitment to the establishment of the demographic fund is, namely, this ZPIZ-2 was adopted in 2013, during the second government of Janez Janša. And all subsequent governments, the government of Alenka Bratušek, the government of Mir Cerar and the government of Marjan Šarc, and until now the government of Janez Janša, the third government, have not actually been able to propose or accept the Slovenian demographic fund. There have also been experiments in the National Assembly, namely Desusa in 2018, when the legislative procedure for their proposal was introduced, and in 2019, the SDS Group of Members. And that didn't actually happen. For that reason, I would say, you have begun with this, honourable Member, that you have been gone for two weeks now since there was a speech about the demographic fund. Here I tell you that it has been eight years since it was accepted to establish the Slovenian Demographic Fund or the Slovenian Pension Society, as you wish. A number of regulations have laid down this, and this has not actually happened so far for such or other reasons, probably because they are not actually looking for a solution, but they are looking for problems at the beginning. Not only is the solution sought to provide additional funding for pensions and thus for pensioners, but it is not only to effectively address future generations' problems and to ensure a stable source and greater stability of the pension treasury. Not only that, but also in order to actually ensure a safe age through this fund, in the sense that people from this fund would also be financed by the so-called long-term care, homes for older people and so that these people would actually find all these things. At least the government wants to force anyone. You mentioned whether the government wants to force companies to make profits. The government can't do that. It can't do that. And at the very least, this is about any kind of abandonment of people to do so. Look, insinuations like that, I don't think they're constructive. I think they're completely groundless. We want to set up this demographic fund solely to solve if I can say at the end of the answer to the first part of the question that I will solve demographic problems or demographic problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u85	Thank you. Comrade Lenart, are you requesting a follow-up?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I certainly agree with your last sentence in response, that is our common goal. But I would still ask for further clarification: Does it make sense for you to include investment in state-owned tourism in the demographic fund? Will SDH buy 43% of Sava shares owned by Sava Turizm? What does the Financial Ministry have to say about such a form of the demographic fund, which has so far advocated the view that the Fund should manage portfolio investments? Is this plan in line with the OECD guidelines? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u87	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u88	Thank you very much for the questions to complement the answer. I see that some interests have already emerged from this issue. We have the law, the last law that was dealt with in the National Assembly, you have also dealt with it, as it was, and it has included a large number of state-owned companies that are now divided into four or five different legal entities, legal entities. So from this point of view we see in the common demographic pool synergistic effects. This Common Demographic Fund will have to separately manage so-called strategic investments, portfolio investments, on the other hand, probably another sector that will be managed separately, such as real estate and so on. Look, I'm not talking about organizational design here right now, I'm just talking about some idea of how I can manage and manage a state-owned fund so that it can be as effective as possible, and in order to actually solve the problems that pensioners today have, or that the pensioners have, when these pensions are actually too low for what they actually created. And in order to provide this demographic fund in the long term with a resource that, in addition to paying contributions to pension insurance, also pays pensions from this source, at least one part, and one part of the accounts to be used for investments, and one part could also be used to improve the current situation of pensioners by building a home and so on. Individual transactions, honourable Member, I do not comment at this time. However, I certainly understand that many of the individual transactions concerned, which in this case have absolutely nothing to do with or very little to do with what the actual demographic pension fund is intended for, and at least to talk about any transactions now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u89	Thank you. Comrade Lenart, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u90	Dear Minister, it is clear from our communication that this area is very important for the future. Look, you said yourself that this fund is in a hurry because of this covid-19 situation, the epidemic we went into. The pension register is shrinking, and before that, there were big problems without it, they're even bigger now. The embodiment is what will happen in the fall when the cash register is increasingly empty. For this reason, I think it is very appropriate to include this topic in a broader debate in the Assembly in autumn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We're moving on now. Mr Miha Kordiš will ask the Minister for Infrastructure Mr Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Mr. Minister, a month ago on some marginal television, you said you'd bring Uber to Slovenia. Bringing to us one of the most shameless, exploitative corporations known for reducing labour rights, unfair competition between other carriers and tax evasion is, according to you, a major contribution to the country. My first question, Mr. Minister, is: Are you out of your mind? Uber is an online platform. He's not hiring any of their drivers. These drivers are either some poor employees who touch something small with Uber or the unemployed, at best they are some form of espionage, students, etc. In short, Holiday Workers, to whom Uber does not have any labour rights, do not have any working conditions, no working resources, all of which people pay for themselves. In your performance, Mr Minister, you stated that, I quote, “digitalisation is cheaper and makes people happy”, the end of the quote. The second question is: How can a happy person who has to work for a miserable payment, without any working rights, be able to obtain and maintain his own resources, working from morning to evening to barely survive his family? Domestic carriers, those registered for the purpose of carrying out taxis, in principle, must provide labour resources themselves, must employ workers, etc. There is also a lot of perakarisation here, but national carriers take at least some minimum responsibility for their operation. Uber doesn't take responsibility. It is just an application, unfair competition for all other domestic carriers, which is likely to bury these same carriers in the final stage, which is also the reason for the mass rebellion against Uber in many European countries. Next, in your already mentioned performance on TV, you stated that at Ubru, I quote, “less tax evasion”. It's a lie. Uber is one of the corporations that was established in the Paradise documents, showing how highly innovative approaches in tax avoidance are being used in the countries where it works. My question here, Mr. Minister, is: How will you ensure that Uber is in the same tax situation as the other carriers? We have enough, maybe even too many, and they are already digitized, they have applications through which we can order transport. Why would they even want to bring one of the most parasitic corporations in the world to exploit workers even more shamelessly than domestic carriers, to make unfair competition with these domestic carriers and to receive some more tax breaks for the surface? And after all, Uber could be working with us right now if he wanted to use the law. Bringing Uber here means bringing down as many bad standards as we have.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u94	Thank you so much for asking. I am pleased that the debate on how important digitisation is and how important the different platforms are, not only in the case under discussion, but we can also talk about all other platforms, similar services, which in fact increase efficiency, are cheaper and have people from such services working on digital platforms very much. As far as Uber is concerned, look, the Ministry's goal is to improve the mobility of the population. And Uber is just one of the apps that works in the world and pursues this goal. We also have a series of other similar applications operating on different platforms. Personal transport on call, as defined by Slovenian law, is therefore a taxi, does not allow non-professional drivers to transport passengers by their personal vehicles, i.e. to rent vehicles with a driver. That's why we're going here to change legislation. The introduction of a vehicle rental service with a driver would certainly improve the mobility of persons, especially in areas where the taxi is difficult to access and the supply of public transport is weak. And if we had, for example, applications that work like Uber, or any other application, another platform, then someone from a rural place who has no possibility of going on a bus or a train or having no possibility of being transported could benefit from such an application. Now tell me who the exploiter is, or we who propose this solution, or you who tell us that. I was alone when you mentioned Uber, repeatedly using Uber abroad. The system works as a user. I was satisfied with it. However, I believe that there are a lot of critics who oppose such applications when you go beyond the borders of Slovenia, and you use these applications and are satisfied with them, and here only an ideological fight is fought on whether we need them or not. Of course, the solution that we will propose and will be in the Government in September will have all the components to prevent unfair competition, to avoid the different exploitations of drivers, to ensure that drivers and even passengers are properly insured, it is said that there will be no work on black and non-payment of taxes or control of transactions. That's exactly what digitization is. If you have an application on the phone and you are a client of a particular service, such as these applications, you can automatically establish a link with the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and other authorities so that no such obstacles or exploitations, including legislation, would occur. All of this we have in mind, honourable Member, and believe that when we are even more digitised than we are now, our lives will in fact be cheaper, in particular more comfortable, even for those who do not have the possibility of different forms of public passenger transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Member of the Commission, you wish to complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Madam President. It is plausible that Minister Vrtovec, Minister of Infrastructure, Uber sells us as digitisation. But traffic through the app is happening today, not only through Uber, but also with domestic carriers. Uber's specification is not digitisation, Uber's specification is that it is even more tyrannical to its drivers, even more exploitative to the tax systems of the countries in which it operates, than everyone else. Uber could have come to Slovenia today if he were willing to carry out taxis under the same conditions as all the other carriers, dots, could have done it today, but he doesn't want to. And the legislation you're preparing at the Ministry is nothing more than a complete deregulation of the auto taxi transport. You want to completely abolish the national licence for taxi transport, you want to eliminate the mandatory use of taxi meter in cases where such transports are carried out via the application, even though such applications have been shown abroad. We have the example of Denmark, which already introduced a mandatory taxi meter for transport through such platforms in 2017. In short, Minister, you are not doing anything for digitisation, you are adapting the entire legislation to one multinational corporation, not because this corporation has an application, but because this corporation is known for its predator practices and you want to legalise these predatory practices in Slovenia. And you want to show it as a cooperative economy, even though there's nothing cooperative about it. This is the worst kind of parasitism because Uber destroys the entire national sector of taxi transport and workers with extra pressure. Do you really want to bring more looting practices to Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u98	You don't know what to say. See, the taxi meter, as we know it today, is not the only option to account for a particular service, but it can also be a matter of agreement, what price will it be, for example, from Škofja Loka to Ljubljana, if you hire a car with a driver. This thing isn't arranged today. You can't rent a car with a driver. It's not legal. That's why we're regulating this area. If we get new opportunities here for people to be even better mobile, I apologize, it helps and helps older and younger, all forms of the population. And I don't see anyone taking advantage of anyone. In this country, neither the exploitation of labour law nor tax legislation must occur. That is why we have different inspection services that have to prevent this. For the sake of a good solution, we must not throw the rifle into the corn and say, yes, yes, they come to you and they will take advantage. It is not only Uber that there will be no confusion, but there are other platforms from other areas, which would now have the opportunity to perform on the Slovenian market after amending this legislation. Better flow is also recorded in the coalition contract. This is why it is my duty to ensure better accuracy in all areas, including public passenger transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Kordish, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Just like all the other ideological stories about digitization, there's also a symptomatic story about Uber's abuse and law enforcement, we have inspection services here to check things out. Mr Vrtovac has come from a party that has consistently opposed all initiatives of the Left over the last six years to strengthen any inspection service and to strengthen control over any sector in society. “Uber works in third world countries, but we don’t have it yet.” I quote again. I quote Minister Vrtovec. I don't know how you Christian Democrats have come from the fact that you wanted to make another Switzerland out of Slovenia in the last three decades, to the fact that you want to make Slovenia a third world. As it is said, Uber could already come to Slovenia and carry out transportation here as any other taxi carrier, but he does not want to do so because he does not want to agree to the conditions that all other taxi carriers must meet under the conditions set out in the Road Transport Act. The Road Traffic Act, both Government and for her Minister Vrtovec, must agree to the conditions of Uber. What they're doing is nothing more than a state's total capitulation before a multinational corporation. And this legal fiction, which is in fact the abolition of the regulation in the field of autotax transport, Minister Vrotec says "car rental with driver". That's bullshit. Minister Vrtovac further presents Uber and his business model as something new, but in fact it is just another iteration of the verified 300-year-old capitalist-worker exploitation relationship, which differs from classical industrial capitalism only by transferring the cost of purchasing and maintaining assets to the worker here, the car is called. And it's not even some crazy innovation that you wouldn't have seen before. The only thing Uber is truly innovative about is avoiding and faking labour, tax and other legislation. In this way, it reduces its costs and constitutes unfair competition for all other carriers that cannot do so. Drivers who make decisions for Uber do not choose to do so because it would be a pleasant and well - paying job. The talk is that more than half of Uber’s drivers stop working with them after less than a year. Uber offers no training, no education, no driver support, except, of course, the application they are charging, and then, at dumped prices, its drivers plunge into increasing poverty. President-in-Office, I request a general debate on the response of Minister Vrtovac before this Minister and his government completely destroy the transport sector in this country and send drivers to even deeper poverty than they already are.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Now, Mr Franc Jurša will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u102	First of all, I say hello! Dear Mr. Secretary! Due to demands for increasing, exceptional profits, the last few years have been speedily closed in all small towns in the rural financial offices, post offices, local offices, inspection services, schools, police stations, banks, shops. If they don't lock their doors completely, the leaders will decide on a very limited business time. In the Group that I belong to, we have been addressing initiatives and parliamentary questions for several years, regardless of who is leading the Government or the competent ministries, so that such closures do not occur. The trend of leading Post Slovenia is the transformation of post offices either into contract mail, mobile mail, letter mail or restrict access to their services by setting limited business time. This time, I am referring to you with regard to the disproportionate reduction in the business time of the post office in Križevci near Ljutomer. On July 1st this year, the Slovenian Post Office decided to reduce business time between 9 and 11 p.m. and between 16 and 18 p.m. on Wednesday. Mr Minister, I do not need your explanation that the Post of Slovenia is an economic public service of private law, acting under conditions of market competition, that the Republic of Slovenia or the Government has no direct influence on its business decisions. The fact is that mail performs part of the tasks of the economic public service, it is universal postal services. Under the Postal Services Act, the State is obliged to provide all postal service users under the same conditions with a permanent, regular and smooth operation of the universal postal service. That's why I'm interested in a concrete answer, Mr. Minister: Do you think that the above mentioned closure and transformation of businesses, in particular in view of the older rural person, is still sufficient to provide for the legal provision of these services to all under the same conditions, on a permanent, regular and uninterrupted basis? What do you intend to do as a competent minister to make this service available to all citizens in a prescribed, legal manner? At the same time, I must point out that the elderly are not trained, nor can we expect them to be, even less demanding that they learn electronic communications and modern technologies. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u104	Dear Member of the Republic of France, President-in-Office of the National Assembly! Thank you for asking. The postal service of Slovenia creates all its revenues on the market. In the majority part, it operates under conditions of market competition and also performs part of the tasks of the public economic service, i.e. universal postal service, on the basis of a decision from 2018 to 2023. I would like to point out that the Post Office of Slovenia as a universal postal service provider is not part of the public sector, but is an economic company of private law. Although owned by the State, it is organised and operated as an economic company in accordance with the Company Act. In particular, I stress that the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, have no direct influence on the business decisions of Post Slovenia, but that its management of the company runs the company on its own. Therefore, Posta Slovenije is subject to market legality and fully complies with and complies with the statutory requirements for the provision of the volume and quality of universal postal services covered by the above-mentioned Decision. And this is the basis on which we can and we by the State must have control of the Post Slovenia. The situation in the postal services market has changed significantly in recent years, this is a fact. Research by the Agency for Communication Networks of AKOS 2018 shows that 57% of respondents visit the post office less than once a month or only once a month, and another 27% visit the post office 2 to 3 times a month. The scope of universal postal services has been halved in recent decades. And this is a general trend which requires the adjustment of the network in all countries of the European Union to the changing needs of users. The actual needs of the population for postal services need to be critically assessed. The optimisation of the postal network includes the conversion of the contact points into more rational forms, contractual mail, mobile mail, as well as the closure of those contact points which are not mandatory under the general act. Universal postal services are still available to residents in all areas. Once again, everywhere in the field of the whole of Slovenia we need to provide universal postal services in a manner and to the extent that for the first time in every municipality in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia there is at least one contact point organised as a post office or contract post office. Secondly, for 95 % of the population of the Republic of Slovenia, the air distance to the nearest post office or contract post office must not exceed 4.5 km. Finally, it is necessary to mention the modernisation and updating of the postal network by including packages, self-service units and allowing shipments to be downloaded on petrol services. The country is closely monitoring the adaptation of the Post Slovenia network to the needs of users through AKOS. It assesses that mail submits proposals in a manner sufficient to meet the applicable legal standards and quality. In the case referred to by you, honourable Member, let me say that this post is organised as a contact point and its operating time is regulated by the 7th Article of the General Act, which lays down the worker. At least five working days per week, at least two consecutive hours each working day and of which at least once a week in the afternoon after 16 hours. Therefore, the fact that the change was made in accordance with the rules and, in addition, the Post Office of Slovenia, together with the representatives of the municipality, is now trying to find a suitable partner for the contract post, is said to be more than just a contact point. The purpose of such optimisation is to combine postal activities with the primary activity of the contractual partner, which is, inter alia, more user-friendly, since the contractual partners provide longer working hours depending on their parental activities. In any case, we are aware of this problem. This is not just the mail that you mentioned, and within this I believe that the Post Office of Slovenia will work with more feeling to find partners sooner so that the mail will be organised as a contract post office, so that it does not only work as a contact point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Jurša, would you like to complete the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u106	Thank you. Yes, I expected, Mr. Secretary, the answer you gave me. Even though I said I didn't want to. And now I'm going to ask a purely personal question: Are you a supporter of the centralisation of the Republic of Slovenia? That's what you'll answer me when you get the word. In this case, of course, and in a number of other cases, I cannot agree with these matters. I mentioned inspection services, I mentioned schools, police stations, banks, shops. All of this we take from small local environments to the regional environment or to the state environment. We will slowly have all the services installed in the capital of our Republic. This is the poverty of the local environment, and we should not actually allow it. It is true that you are one of those who have some responsibility because you are the Minister of the Economy and in this sector somehow belong to mail. Of course, I do not agree with this human resources weakness. We should think about this more thoroughly in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u107	Done? Yes, thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u108	Dear Member, first of all, let me answer. I am a advocate of decentralised Slovenia, and I am aware that these processes, if we look purely at the economic side of all the activities you have mentioned, lead to the centralisation of Slovenia. In the field of mail, I have to say that what you told me earlier, that I answered exactly what you didn't want, we had a much more ambitious mail plan on the table after rationalisation, and I will diplomatically call this their postal network. However, we have achieved that we have interrupted or stopped the closure of postal offices in Slovenia, that we have come to the point that we must strictly seek solutions through contractual partners. Here I see one end of the exit at this. Of course, it should also be noted that the mail is different from it used to be. We've used several of her services, but now you have a situation where fair things happen in gas stations and there's a lot of other stuff sold in the post office. These are things that we must take into account, but in any case I can say that I, as Minister, as the Ministry in relation to Post Slovenia, will insist that once again universal postal services are strictly provided. Of course, it doesn't matter if it's a contact point and the problem is solved in the way you said it, and once a day after two hours once a week it's another afternoon. And I expect that at the Post Office of Slovenia, the Post Office of Slovenia will do everything to ensure that as many post offices as possible where they estimate that they have problems in the field of economics are transformed into contractual mail with some selected partners, which will allow the opening time of these mail to be useful. To comfort you, I, too, have a terrible problem raising any official mail and aligning it with my working time, especially now in these turbulent times, when I have these mails a lot more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Jurša, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u110	I have asked this question, Mr Minister, at the request of the citizens of the Municipality of Križevci. I will not propose a general debate because there will be no benefit because there are no conclusions, no conclusions. Vice President, I know what's coming next, but I'll take it with my own understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u111	Thank you very much, this is followed by a warning that this was not a procedural proposal, but you are aware of it, so we will not waste any time here. We're moving on. The next is Mr Jani Möderndorfer, who will raise a question to Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar and Minister of Defence of Magi. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye! Mr Gantar and Mr Tonin, two ministers, I have both chosen for a simple reason, although at least two others could ask the same question, that is to the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Infrastructure. In fact, as you both know, I'm asking a question about an unfortunate helicopter emergency medical care. Each ministry is involved in its own way and, more importantly, nothing has moved, everything is in place, there is much written down, all governments have tried to solve it so far. But the most important thing I have left in mind is the commitment of Minister Tonin, which is why I am asking him today, at his appearance, he said that he would solve this issue, I am paraphrasing, because everyone has the right to the same solution, if I have somehow tried to sum it up very briefly. And the Minister of Health for a simple reason, because if anyone, then it would be in his best interest, and I believe it is for him to have helicopter emergency medical care put under a universal cap and one command. It can't be as simple as it has been in recent years. I have been waiting for the results or the conclusions of the Joint Commission to find out how this systemic issue needs to be resolved, but now I find that this Commission has actually been dissolved. If I'm wrong, you'll correct me, and above all, it's a matter for both of us. And I'm also asking you not to fill me with data on how many helicopters there have been and so on, because we have all these data available, we have them, more importantly, that the need to do so is increasing, that is essential. And the fact is that we are in the European legal order to respect this European legal order, and on the other hand we speak and we are convinced that we are so small that we simply cannot organise a self-service, and in some way we are pushing both the police and the military, more the police, that we are actually carrying out some sort of flight that we should in any case be carried out, if I understand correctly. Given that these percentages are increasing, I am interested in the following: When and in what way will helicopter emergency medical care in the Republic of Slovenia finally be systematically resolved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Who wants the first word? You're making a difference. Mr. Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u114	I will begin because Member Möderndorfer has highlighted me a little bit more. I am still in the position that public health is needed for all and that the location of our home or the place of the accident should not affect our survival. I'm behind this and I want to work in this spirit. I understand the helicopter as an ambulance in the air. If we have those on the road, the helicopters are mostly those ambulances in the air that can bring the patient or the injured person much faster to the place where he has to go. However, it is a fact, as Member Möderndorfer said, that the number of these interventions and interventions is increasing dramatically. In comparison, 2014 carried out 164 interventions, 2019 already 733. This number is increasing. Now, about what we're going to do and when this thing is going to be settled. The Member spoke about the Interdepartmental Working Group, which was established on 17 December 2017 and prepared this report. The report has been prepared; the Interdepartmental Working Group has been resolved. On 22 pages, they report an analysis of the situation and what should be done. And they say that this helicopter emergency medical care should ideally be organized in a way that is the distance between the bases of 90 kilometers. That's why I would need at least 3 to get things right. They are proposing Ljubljana, Maribor, Postojna. They also suggest and talk about the need for dedicated helicopters, the need to separate helicopter emergency medical care and mountain rescue services, which also means the implementation of EU Regulation 956/212, because today the military is doing approximately 75% of the interventions for helicopter emergency medical care or secondary transport, while the second quarter is the solution in the mountains, in short, so that these two activities need to be separated. They also say that it is necessary to arrange dispatch services, who will be the one who will experience helicopter rescue and systematically arrange crew design, I am talking about pilots and doctors. Finally, the Interdepartmental Working Group proposes three solutions in a way. The first solution is to continue to do so with state aircraft. Another solution is that this is commercialised and that the operation of this helicopter emergency medical service is given to a commercial service where a call is made. We have special helicopters doing this. And the third option is the combination. This is as far as this Interdepartmental Working Group is concerned. What we intend to do at the Ministry of Defense. We will first propose to separate a helicopter emergency medical rescue and a mountain rescue, because mountain rescue is a classic search and rescue or should do so in one way or another by the Department of Protection and Rescue, taking care of the rescue in the mountains. That is why we will also come up with a proposal in the summer and autumn to propose a solution to this mountain rescue. However, with regard to helicopter emergency medical care, we will support the Ministry of Health. Here you're right that they're carriers, they're the center of this because emergency medical care is a matter of the system in health, a helicopter is just an ambulance in the air. And if the Ministry of Health says that three helicopters, four of them will get this helicopter emergency medical care themselves, okay, there's no problem. However, if they say they are not for this, the Slovenian Army is willing to help them here. We currently have a law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army, for which I ask you, Member Möderndorfer, to support it. This could buy two extra helicopters. We will also apply for a European call for the RescEU for two additional helicopters. This is how we plan to purchase four new helicopters, that is to say, two new helicopters, and two of them would get through this call, where the procurement of these helicopters is largely co-financed. If we get that, we'll have four restored Bell helicopters available exclusively for a helicopter emergency medical rescue. Of course, we expect the Ministry of Health to regulate air bases and provide funds for dedicated equipment in these helicopters. So, the military can provide helicopters and crews, pilots, of course, on fact and provided that this investment law is [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You've wasted your time. Mr. Members, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u116	You're gonna have to figure out who's gonna answer. What I wanted in response is not if you support it that way, but I've heard quite a few governments already when they wanted helicopters and even had them in the budget, and then the devil is in the details of the calls. And then they fight each other when they start talking about what helicopters they're going to buy. I'm an advocate of the next. The military has nothing to look for in civilian traffic, especially when we talk about rescue. When it helps with natural disasters, it's another story. But we know that the military and I also allow it and support it to buy helicopters, because it has too few helicopters, because of military missions and so on, but that's different, under other standards and so on. And that's why I wouldn't mix these two things up. And that's why the key question to me is: When in the Republic of Slovenia will we have helicopter emergency medical assistance to rescue the inhabitants of the mountains, in traffic accidents or elsewhere where they need and have the right to such assistance? Not that someone is saved only when the helicopter is free because it is not in exercise, but others, of course, do not have these options and help. We need 365 days, 24 hours a day, every day emergency helicopter medical care. This is a question for me when and in what way. For this we must have money and, of course, what is most important is that we have such a combined system that it also works. If we don't have the money for it, if we don't have the power, the energy, then I don't know why we're even talking about it. Minister of Health, this is a question for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I agree that this area is, of course, poorly regulated, definitely. In the case of helicopter emergency medical care, we are essentially talking about the ideal way of transporting the seriously injured. To increase needs is also a fact. I think they've increased by 38% in the last few years, from 2015 to 2019. The key questions you want to hear from me, I don't know when that's gonna be. I know what it takes. I think it is essential that this is a separate service, may be a public service, or I think it is good that it is a public service. And as with all issues, with health care and long-term care and these topics, this is the provision of funds. We need three bases in Slovenia to implement effective emergency medical care. Each base is estimated to cost 3.5 million to 4 million euros per year. First we need this, of course, and then we need so many helicopters. The current way is not sufficient, given that the military and police carry out their tasks, so it is not always and cannot always be available in the way that health needs. On the other hand, I think that this urgent medical assistance is useful both for the military and for the police, given that flight hours are also provided with this work. I see the meaning within either the ministry, within the protection and rescue, but the separate services that will provide the personnel, the same kinds of helicopters, where pilots can participate either in the military or in the police, the expert team will provide health care, and in particular I say the decision that we want so much more money to do so. I hope that we will come to such a decision, because we really need it in our country, and we would probably be able to save a lot of money in other areas if we had this organised. However, the fact is that after a long period of work, some inter-resort groups can no longer be expected to respond to such a resolution. We will prepare the proposal and see what its fate will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u119	Thank you very much. There's still time. Mr. Minister Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u120	That's all I want to point out is that once we get these four new helicopters, they'll be for you for the military and for the mountain rescue. These four bells I was talking about, and then we would have a special event for the purpose of emergency helicopter medical care.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Members, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u122	That's right. Since this is an important issue that many more governments are already talking about, it is more than clear that we need such a debate in Parliament, even in order for both ministers and their co-workers to have the opportunity to provide substantively broader and substantially more precise answers; above all, they will be able to prepare themselves for such a debate. More importantly, one of the key pressures to become a political priority for these governments is one serious, in-depth debate on this. I therefore propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that this be voted on. What is even more important to me, both the Ministers and the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Infrastructure, is that, until this issue is resolved, I will ask again and again the question. And more importantly, you're going to get a bunch of written questions that I'm predicting right now, which will be more precise, more exact; and I believe you're going to get so worked up that you move something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We're moving on. Mag. Bojana Mursic will ask the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boštjan Koritnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, Mr. Boštjan Kortnik! In the past weeks and months, there has been much talk about the need for the National Assembly to align electoral legislation by December of this year with the Constitutional Court's decision, which found that differences in electoral districts are inconsistent with the Constitution. As it has been said, the possible solutions to this issue have been quite generalised in the public, so I would like to focus on other open issues of electoral and referendum legislation in my question. However, there is very little talk or nothing in the public, but they are extremely important, so allow me to point out, for the first time, in November 2018, the Constitutional Court decided that Article 50 of the Law on the State Council is inconsistent with the Constitution. It has found that the protection of the electoral rights of members of the State Council is not adequately regulated and it will therefore be necessary to specify precisely the legal remedies, eligible investors and deadlines, in particular in the electoral dispute. We know that the Council of State has already tabled another amendment to the law, which seeks to solve key open issues. It proposes that all questions, including the questions of candidates and the confirmation of the list of electors, be resolved by means of lawsuits in the subsequent election dispute at the Supreme Court, i.e. after the elections held. The Supreme Court should, within a certain period of time, take one of the possible measurement decisions. Novela foresees a possible later appeal to the Constitutional Court against the Supreme Court's decision. Secondly, last month, the Constitutional Court ruled that there were paragraphs 100, 101, 102 of the Law on Local Elections in breach of the Constitution. It has been found that neither the Local Elections Act nor the Local Self-Government Act allow beneficiaries to exercise their right to a remedy effectively and to resolve the electoral dispute in the local elections poorly. Thirdly, in early 2018, the Constitutional Court decided that the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative was inconsistent with the Constitution. In this case, too, the Court has expressed a marked lack of regulated questions related to the legal protection of the referendum. This does not only mean effective judicial protection, but also the regulation of the clear position and competence of the State Election Commission. It will therefore be necessary to specify very precisely who is entitled to initiate the referendum dispute, within what time frame, under what conditions and the burden of proof. It will also be necessary to determine the powers of the Referendum Judge, whose decisions may be taken in a referendum dispute, within what time frame it must do so and how it ensures the principle of contradiction in the dispute. That's why I'm asking you, Minister: How did you plan or dynamics in the preparation and adoption of laws governing individual types of elections? Can you present the time frame for the adoption of individual laws and their basic substantive solutions that you are preparing?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u126	Thank you, Madam President. The esteemed Member of the Mag. Mr Mursich, I very much agree, this is a lot of questions concerning electoral legislation and also referendum legislation. As you yourself have mentioned, the last few months are mainly about harmonising electoral legislation with the Constitutional Court's decision on electoral thefts. This is very intensive, but what needs to be settled is a referendum dispute. The first thing is about the Law of Referendum and the Human Initiative. We have already implemented a small part of what we needed at this time of the epidemic, but the ZRLI-F proposal is also ready, and it is the elimination of the anti-constitution found by the Constitutional Court in 2018. The provisions of the ZRLI for the Referendum Judge are laid down by the Supreme Court, as you mentioned, in all cases of referendum disputes, every voter will have the opportunity to open a referendum dispute. This proposal by the ZRLI-F, which will arrange it, is already ready, will soon go into inter-sectoral coordination. The other main solutions to this proposal, which we have already prepared at the Ministry of Public Administration, are to introduce a more active role for the President of the National Assembly in completing or correcting the referendum requirements in the work relating to the subject of the referendum and the referendum question. It also introduces changes that normally mean the elimination of physical forms in the process of collecting 40,000 signatures to support the request or those physical forms are kept only in exceptional cases; in accordance with the Constitutional Court decision, this bill also provides for a new procedure in which the National Assembly and its President, in the event of an abuse of the right to referenda, and several other solutions. As you mentioned, we will also need to amend the Law on Local Elections. On 4 June, a good month ago, the Constitutional Court found that paragraphs 100, 101 and 102 of the Law on Local Elections were inconsistent with the Constitution, because for a period after the election day they did not provide adequate protection of electoral rights. However, the deadline for the abolition of these contra-constitutions is one year, a year after the publication of this Decision in the Official Journal. By the end of this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be proposing to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption of the amendment to the Local Elections Act, which will settle the electoral dispute, and is expected to be adopted in the first half of 2021. In general, it would be appropriate and proper for this electoral justice process to be resolved in a systematic manner for all types of elections, in the first place for the election of Members to the National Assembly, as well as for the local elections and the election of Members to the European Parliament. In any case, these solutions will have to be coordinated. For example, in order to help resolve this electoral dispute, there will be a proposal to regulate the referendum dispute in the ZRLI-F, which is prepared and is actually following on the basis of the same standards and principles of legal or judicial protection as an electoral dispute. The Ministry of Public Administration will therefore prepare a new Law on Local Elections, as already mentioned by you, namely the regulation of the position of state councilors, and the State Council has already prepared and tabled a proposal in the legislative procedure. In our view, this proposal is not yet quite appropriate, it is on the right track to become one, but on the precondition for the design of the regulation to be aligned with the main professional stakeholders. In addition, the resolution of the electoral dispute is a very complex area and all professional stakeholders, in particular the Supreme Court, the Administrative Court and the State Election Commission, must be closely involved in the preparation of these complex legal solutions. At the Ministry of Public Administration, we are also thinking of organising a public consultation on this subject in the autumn, particularly on the question of who should be the electoral judge in certain types of electoral dispute. On this basis, however, it would then join the comprehensive resolution of the electoral dispute in the ZVD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have a request to complete your reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. Indeed, it will have to be approached as soon as possible, because these arrangements that we now have are incompatible with the Constitution and can cause us to worry. In fact, we also need to start talking in the National Assembly, because for individual bill proposals, a different majority is needed than the general majority. So I kind of hold you to what you just said today, to harmonise the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, which has already been prepared in the previous term, and you've also received it as a way forward, and to start talking and get to the bottom of it as soon as possible. I must certainly say that this is extremely important, because in 2022 we have elections ahead of us and until then it is good that we have these matters resolved. Social Democrats are extremely aware of this importance of adopting this legislation, so we will also actively participate in this, and we expect you in our Group of Members to present the issues to us. However, I would ask you once again: What is your opinion on the proposal made by the Council of State? Otherwise, you have said, but I am interested in your personal opinion, whether we will amend it; whether we will wait for your proposal, which you will prepare by your legislative service, which will be fully regulated; whether you will support the one prepared by the Council of State and comply with the relevant amendments with the necessary legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u130	Thank you. I certainly agree that this debate will have to continue in the National Assembly on all these aspects of electoral and referendum legislation, including this law of the Council of State. I have already made it public several times now that, on the basis of the legal solution, they work properly, but it is reasonable to wait for the decision of the Constitutional Court to be resolved in a comprehensive and appropriate manner. However, as regards the urgency and priority of dealing with these issues, these are matters not only of this government, but also of the legality of all elections, which we deal with for all governments, and that is why we give them a priority special place at the Ministry of Public Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mrs. Mursic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Minister, you have said everything well, but despite what I have said is necessary for the adoption of this legislation by the wider consensus of our Members, I think it is extremely important that we start talking about this proposal or about these draft proposals, that we know where we are, where we will sail in the coming months. Therefore, on the basis of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose a public debate on this extremely important topic, with a view to rounding up and setting the basic objectives for legislation to be properly regulated and following these constitutional decisions. Otherwise, constitutional decisions are prepared in such a way that solutions are given, and I believe that the Ministry has also taken them into account, to which it will follow. And we are preparing legislation that will also regulate this inappropriate legislation. Once again, I demand a public debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We're moving on. Mr Primož Siter will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Magi Space. To Andre Visiak, who is already absent, I ask the Member to tell him whether he wants a written or oral reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. In the Soča Valley, in Anhove, Salonit, a co-incineration of waste is carried out, which is a dangerous practice, which is an environmental one, and – which is also noted by a wide range of doctors – mainly a health problem. The wider area of Anhovega in the municipality of Kanal ob Soči is exposed to large amounts of emissions generated as a result of waste incineration. This is the healthiest area in Slovenia, as the use of asbestos has caused the number of diseases. To incinerate such amounts of waste in the cement plant for a very clear and excessive health risk to the surrounding population, among other things, doctors have been warned at the Medical Chamber itself or with 600 signatures under the petition against waste incineration in Anhove. Nevertheless, the burning of waste in Anhove continues with unabated power. Moreover, Salonit Anhovo has entered into new multi-annual contracts for the co-incineration of waste, for example with Ljubljan Voko Power and so on, which generally indicates that neither cement plant nor subscribers actually want to stop it. The director, by the way, still predicts that they want to double the allowed amount of waste incineration by exploiting the cement oven up to 100%. This means more total emissions, more diseases, more environmental risks, which is completely contrary to the objectives of the conclusions that we have drawn up at the emergency meeting of the Infrastructure and Health Committees referred to in the Levica Group on 20 February. At the meeting we adopted certain decisions which oblige the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the competent ministries to act. In early May, we received a letter from the Minister for the Environment and a space in which he informed us that certain activities to remedy this situation had already been carried out in accordance with the conclusions adopted. Therefore, to the Minister for the Environment and the premises of Mr Mag. I am addressing the following additional questions to the visionary and I am counting on him to answer them orally at the following meeting: To date, what activities have been carried out with regard to the implementation of those Committee conclusions? On the basis of what criteria did the Government of the Republic of Slovenia appoint members of the Interdepartmental Working Group? And what is the most important time frame for all committee decisions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Mrs Jerca Korče will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mr Janez Cigler King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u136	Good-bye. Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Good-bye, distinguished minister! We will probably agree on the priorities set by the government in the budget or in the balance; somehow it will cement in there what are the development priorities or policies of the individual government. And today, unfortunately, the National Assembly cannot know what the real situation is in our budget, we are waiting for a rebalancing. At the same time, I am personally extremely concerned that a defence investment law of 780 million has passed through the government. It is true that we are talking about a longer period of time, but this amount is extremely high, even in the light of the fact that we do not know or are having a hard time predicting what the real consequences will be, including the social area left by the coronary crisis. We may also be in some frozen state in the area of unemployment and elsewhere, waiting for this wave to hit us in the social field. And I'm interested in what you're covering, and it's got an extraordinary range of different areas, from pensions, social transfers, children with special needs, homes for the elderly, and so on: Have you had any discussions within the government, what are the priorities, even in the light of this 780 million bill? As Minister, do you support the adoption of such a law at a time when we are truly witnessing some unstable, unpredictable consequences that will occur in a year or two? Do you actually support such a law as a minister for work within the government at this point in time, or have you raised your voice when this law was being prepared and adopted and also by the government, saying that perhaps the time and space for such a mega-Romanian law with such a strong amount of EUR 780 million is not needed at this time? In no way do I claim that the Government, as a collective body, has to take care of each sector, including the equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, but this amount could be placed in some real contexts to a much lower level – as Slovenia can now carry. My question is: Do you agree with the set priority of such megalomanic investments? How you, as Minister of Labour, will ensure that the work desk maintains an appropriate level of funding in the light of these unpredictable things that await us in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you, Commissioner Korca, for your question. As you know, and as you yourself have stated, I run a department, under whose jurisdiction are different areas, very different, from employment to family, social and equal opportunities. In general and at the time of the epidemic, we are committed to the financing of the policies concerned in these areas through legal obligations, as well as through substantive emphasis. It may not be necessary to mention before I specifically begin to answer you that I have already faced a significant financial hole in my ministry, about €260 million, which has further made it difficult for all the starting points in taking over the ministry and managing policies in these areas, which I mentioned earlier. Nevertheless, I will try to tell you what we are and what we are planning now after the first crisis, the first wave of the epidemic. I will divide the answer into two sets – during the epidemic and after the epidemic. At the time of the crown epidemic, in the context of the three anti-korona packages, we now have four, since the fourth was adopted on Thursday, with a view to improving the social security of vulnerable groups at the Ministry, we have put forward a proposal for a number of measures. For example, in the last anti-korona measure of the package, we have provided 31 million euros for additional personnel for institutional protection providers in the area of social protection for the next two-year period. In all four packages, we tried to cover different groups of the population, including in the area of social policy, we paid various solidarity allowances, we allowed key measures to maintain jobs, and we also helped pensioners, students and other vulnerable groups, and we did not forget our families. The total value of payments with all the packages so far is estimated at EUR 250 million, but this is only an intermediate data, as the measures are still in progress and are being implemented. Now for the second part of the response, how we finance different policies in the field of our powers after the end of the first wave of the covid epidemic. As we say, many of our obligations are already laid down by law, and we faithfully and indirectly comply with them, so all transfers, payments and contracts run smoothly. In addition, we have strengthened some aspects of funding, including in the light of preparations for the second wave of the epidemic and as a mitigation of the effects of the first wave. Let me put out the following, in particular. In the area of social policy, we have prepared a €2 million tender for the most vulnerable groups of people from Europe. It is intended for victims of violence, elderly people with disabilities, persons with mental health problems, and other socially excluded people who are in additional distress because of the epidemic. This call is already under way and will certainly help alleviate these distresses of the most vulnerable groups. For individuals or families in material danger, temporary or permanent, for example in the event of a higher unemployment rate, in addition to labour market measures, we provide financial social assistance, exceptional financial social assistance and a protective allowance. At the end of my first part of the answer, I recall that in June pensioners were also paid this year's annual allowance, which undoubtedly helped to alleviate possible hardships. We continue to encourage employment and job conservation, as we are also extending the subsidisation measure of reduced working time in force by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Korce, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Otherwise, the minister didn't answer my specific question. It is true, as you may have found for yourself, that the 260-million hole in the Ministry was, and you probably know that part of it comes mainly from the fact that some of the legal bases in this national council were adopted on a totally unrealistic basis or on the basis of unrealistic assessments of financial effects; one of these is probably well known to you, too, is a personal assistant. And here I am referring to my question about 780 million, because this law is, in my personal opinion, some unrealistic spending planning that will burden all the other budgets. Here I'm wondering, and I'm asking you a question: Do you, as Minister of Labour, as a defender of the fact that expenditure will also increase in your ministry, in my opinion, estimate that the adoption of such a law is, at this moment, the responsible conduct within the priorities of the government and our society as a whole? We're talking about 780 million, which will also burden the future government and they can remain a dead letter on paper, so I think it's some kind of unrealistic planning. That's why I'm asking you as Minister of Labour: Do you think this is really a priority; do you think it is more important for this money to be directed into your own sector, to strengthen these programmes, which will be necessary when this wave of unemployment and other social pressures bursts when these measures, which you listed, are absolutely good for freezing the situation, are actually defrosted and we will face what will be the real situation?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u142	Thank you very much for the supplementary question. Let me say that the direction of this government and my ministry is to seek a balance both in our departments and in society. This is shown in all four antikron packages, where we helped the economy on the one hand, helped the labour market, protected many jobs and, on the other hand, helped many vulnerable groups. Perhaps in this part of the response, I will focus on what, in addition to helping the first, third and fourth anti-korona of the package so far with labour market measures to maintain around 280 thousand jobs, helping the many who remained at work with the activity allowance; what we were doing in addition to those measures at the time of the first wave and what we are doing now. In order to revive the economy after the epidemic and to bring the unemployed back to the labour market as soon as possible, we are strengthening the implementation of active employment policies that help individuals to keep their jobs, or employers to resume their activities and maintain jobs. We provide financial incentives for the employment of unemployed persons within the framework of the active employment policy programmes implemented by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment. We adapted the current situation very quickly to the Employment.me subsidy programme. In the case of subsidised employment, the unemployed who have lost their jobs due to the consequences of the epidemic may also be re-entered and registered in the unemployment register between 13 March and 30 September 2020. To date, some unemployed people have been employed by this subsidy and have lost their jobs due to the epidemic. In addition, let me mention that the SPIN programme also helps those at risk of losing their jobs, and we can support them in the process of possible cancellation and offer them a retraining, education for as soon as possible re-employment with any other employer. All this data shows that social policy, labour market policy, family and equal opportunities are one of the strong priorities of this government and that we respond well to the needs of the Ministry of Labour [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Jožef Lenart will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandri Pivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. A nice greeting to the guests, a distinguished congregation! Dear Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Aleksandra Pivec! In Podravje, where we both come from, we have great problems flooding the Drava River. If we focus on the last few years, it has crossed the hills almost every year. It's not about the usual floods anymore. Drava, according to agricultural associations and civil initiatives, is sailing between Duplek and Zavreč in case of more abundant rainfall at low currents. So the water supply is growing faster than in the past. In doing so, on agricultural land every year there is tremendous damage, water carries quality land and crops, it brings floods, inquality land and gramoze. The opinion of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia – KGZ Ptuj is that this is due to poor flow due to the uncleaned Drava stream, which we do not actually clean with us, including due to environmental protection. In November 2019, 6,000 acres [6,000 hectares] of land were spilled under the water due to the spillage of the Drava River. There's been millions of damage. Farmers are bitter because no one has compensated them. Similarly, in previous years, if crops are not insured, the damage shall not be covered. In recent years, farmers and landowners in Podrav have also organised a civil initiative, and they presented their problems at a consultation in Skorba in March 2019. The consultation or problem conference organized by the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, Maribor and Ptuj dealt with the problems and damage caused by the flooding of the Drava River. Dear Minister, the media reported at that time that the efforts of the informal farmers' association were also supported by the agricultural minister. The affected farmers have been demanding for several years from the country to unconditionally protect agricultural land and value damage after each flood and thus lay down standards for the assessment of damage in the future. They shall also require the competent authorities to establish precisely the institution responsible for the recovery and recovery of damage and for the immediate recovery of damage caused by floods between 2012 and 2020. I want to know: How is the compensation provided for damage caused to farmers by the flood? What can be done to replace the fertile agricultural land carried along by the flood? Since March 2019, even with your professional help, what has been done to mitigate the damage? Or have we done enough to protect our Slovenian food producers who farm on the Drava River?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u146	Dear President, honourable Member, all the others present! Indeed, I am very well aware of the problem of flooding the Drava River, because, as you mentioned, I come from this area myself. However, I must say that there are no activities related to the prevention of flooding in this area, nor activities related to the assessment or payment of damage under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, but under the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Directorate for Water. As far as our ministry is concerned, it is only in our jurisdiction that wet and dry retainers are concerned, with which we can partially capture this water and then use it to irrigate these agricultural areas. As regards damage and assessment of damage after floods, it is under the responsibility of the Protection and Rescue Authority, which is under the auspices of the Ministry of Defence; the programme has paid off and after all activities related to the payment of damage, as already said, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space. As far as the restraints are concerned, of course we take care of them and also support them with various investment funds. Also in the case of dry buffers with soil monitoring, suitable compensation and also the purchase of such land if there are permanent changes. The Ministry of Environment and Space is therefore a key interlocutor on this issue, or more specifically the Directorate for Water, which could provide information on what their plans are. And here is also the main core of the problem associated with the rehabilitation of the Drava river stream and then this rehabilitation would prevent further flooding. If this is an old watercourse, here we are talking mainly about the problem that arose at the time of the ban on sales and mud. This means that if this stream and mud are not cleaned from the outside, this is one of the reasons why it is poured into segments and, of course, the Drava River is more easily flooded. What is in our power and what we are preparing, as you rightly stated, was established in 2019 a working group between the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. At that time, we committed ourselves to preparing a proposal for the installation of these flood zones along the Drava River, an attempt to place them in restricted areas. So, just like we're putting in some of the areas that are in the hills, mountain areas that have different factors or different circumstances to work on these lands, we're going to try these flood lands, which are likely to remain in the future, because Drava is swimming far from the past, with some special circumstances and thus recognised specific measures to be placed among the OMDs, these are restricted areas. As has already been said, all the other operations of cleaning the line, paying damages and damage are not within our jurisdiction, although we are working with other ministries to ensure that the Drava river is cleaned as soon as possible, which will have a key impact on reducing the flood risk of these areas as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u148	Thank you very much for those answers, Minister. I'll say we're on the same shore somehow. We are fully aware that the problem is not unique, but also as you said, it is also a problem that affects the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Water Directorate. But we also spoke to this civil initiative at a meeting a few days ago in Ormož. Somehow these gentlemen said they didn't know whether they should be stepping up their activities now or how things, just like you said, existed at a certain point. I like that you're aware of the problem and you're trying to help. Perhaps today it would be better for both ministers to ask the question. In the lower Podravje in the last eight years, the flooding of Drava has caused 45 million euros of damage, and we have the goal of actually being self-sustaining, and the land goes away. It is now necessary for farmers to ensure that their lands are functional and fertile, so they also expect your help and mine. I believe we'll move on somehow. They also expressed the desire that they might refer to the subject as a committee, a joint one.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, is there anything else you'd like to add?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u150	Yes, I might add that, in this sense, it would be prudent to propose in a similar way as it was in 2019, even at the time of the work of the previous government, an interdepartmental working group between the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and may try to cooperate between the two departments. Our interest, of course, is that there is no flooding, but they have these activities in charge, to find a common plan on how to deal with these problems. I also agree with what joint meeting of the committee at which this very topical and, in particular, pressing issue could be reopened.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Ms Maša Kociper will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mr Janez Cigler King and Minister of Finance Dr Andrej Šircl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u152	Dear Minister, hello! This question is addressed to both of them together because they will certainly co-decision and contribute to each of their opinions on whether the law that we have tabled in the SAB will be put into the procedure by 27. 6. 2020, this is a novelty of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, with or without any possibility of adoption. But before I come to a specific question, a few contexts. In our party and the Group of Members, we have been firmly committed for many years to regulating the status of current and future pensioners in order to change and improve the situation of those who have retired, and also in the direction that these people who will retire under the new legislation would not repeat the situation as we know it in practice. Situations where people who have worked their whole life have completed the necessary working hours have added to an age in which we retire according to our laws, that such people live on the brink of poverty, or that they live very difficult lives. This is certainly a task that we all have together as a society; and, as it were, we have been working for this for a long time in our client. Already in the previous term, during the time of the government of Mr Mir Cerar, we have collected signatures in our party, where a very large number of citizens have proposed that the percentage of pensioners to retire should increase to 63.5%. This was then also a commitment in the government led by Mr Marjan Sarec and in which our party participated. Although at that time, all of us in the coalition contract wrote that he would be with 1. 1. The law has been amended so that all pensioners will already have this new, higher-dose percentage, which will also mean a higher pension for them; unfortunately, this was not adopted at the time. At the end of 2019, however, the amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which provides for both sexes, was probably on the common satisfaction of all of us coalition and opposition parties. We have introduced a law that provides for the reduction of this transitional period in order for men to come to this right first. This law is simple and has some financial implications. I want to know: What are the chances of this law being passed? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, who wants a word first? Mr. Shircel? No, no, no. Mr. King, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you very much, honourable Member Masha Kociper, for this question. An increase of 63.5% over the four years is one of the objectives of this government, which is enshrined in the coalition contract under point 7 of the Second Chapter of the Coalition Treaty, which is the title of Youth, Family, Pension and Social Affairs. It is very clear here – raising the dose rate to 63.5% in four years. As you know, they are also older among the priorities of my mandate. With regard to the question raised, I explain that we have received the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance, but we do not yet have a definition of the government in a specific law. Nevertheless, I would point out that, according to the content of the coalition contract, its content seems reasonable and that we are in favour of reducing the transitional period for the implementation of the regulation of an increase in the rate of the pension. At the same time, however, we believe that we would remain in this respect in the commitment under the Coalition Treaty. As we have reviewed your law, it provides for a three-year transitional period, which is why we believe that there is a need for a thorough reflection on the current economic and public financial situation, in what way these proposed changes would apply. The government, as I said, advocates raising the dose percentage to 63.5% in four years, as set out in the Coalition Treaty. The reduction in the transitional period from six to three years would result in an additional pension deficit of around EUR 107 million after calculations in the three years, which would be difficult to secure from the budget, given the already projected increase in the deficit resulting from the epidemic. Perhaps more will be said by a fellow finance minister about the public financial aspects.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Shircel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Here I have nothing to add directly to my answer. In fact, this coalition also decided to reduce this period from six to four years. This, of course, is what we have before us, and we also need to take a real look at the constraints that the public financial situation requires. However, not only those restrictions required by the state of public finances, but also those restrictions required by the National Assembly, because the National Assembly has actually set, on the proposal of the Government of course, also the maximum amount of expenditure. If you remember, a few weeks ago, he increased this expenditure by about 2 billion and in fact, the public financial situation must also move; otherwise, we will go beyond what the National Assembly, Members and Members have set. From this point of view, all additional expenditure coming from the National Assembly to the Government must be taken into account, while ensuring the stability of public finances in the short term, the medium term and, of course, the long term.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Madam Members, would you like to complete your question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Thank you, both of you, ministers. First of all, perhaps to Mr. Brickler King, we also had written in our coalition contract, all four of which we signed at the time, so that we can fully equal the dose percentage for both sexes by 1. 1. 2019, and neither are we, although this has been written down. First of all, I was wondering: Will you stick to your commitment, making it a four-year cut? Is there any possibility of taking our proposal into account, which is even shorter, that this period should be reduced by another year, that is, three years? At the time of the adoption of the previously mentioned Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, we are in the party SAB and also in the client Desus – so I am very happy that President Desus is here too – we have tabled an amendment for a reduction of three years. And I think the NSI had the same amendment back then. Minister of Labour, President of the Coalition Party Desus, who is now in the coalition, and our party then tabled the same amendment for a reduction of three years. One year may seem irrelevant to someone, perhaps those who deal with finances and have to look out for each euro, and we know that this can mean that in life people who can already reach the conditions for retirement, in order to reach a higher percentage, will wait for retirement, which is also the purpose of this law. I'm just asking if there's anything else you can say about this: Is there any possibility, in view of the financial situation, that this would be reduced to three years, because it was, as it were said, such a commitment by three parties; and that people would wait at least three years later, not six or four? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you very much, honourable Member, for complementing the question. Let me reiterate that I am personally in favour of the content of the law, as it follows the objectives of this government under the Coalition Treaty. Of course, a transitional period of three years, given what we have heard from a colleague of Finance Minister Shirtzl, is probably a much more public-financial burden than we have systematically anticipated in the coalition contract and the planning of our mandate; therefore, I would not hope to point out that I would promise you that a three-year period is possible. I recall the situation you mentioned at the time of the amendment of the law, and I myself was involved in this process at the time, but the public financial situation at the time was significantly different from that of the present. I would kind of summarize that I do not object to this proposal, we are contentious, as you have heard from both of us with a colleague; but for now, I would remain in the commitment that is enshrined in the coalition agreement, which means four years. I think we will already have to make great public financial efforts here to meet this commitment. Comrade Shirtzel, if you will.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Yes, please, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u162	Maybe a word or two more about this and about the promises that I cannot make here as Minister of Finance because the finances are based on numbers and money and the stability of the public financial system as well. However, I would say that there are at least two new circumstances in this period of time when you filed this law. The first is the epidemic, and the second is that in the framework of the legislation we have adopted in connection with the epidemic, we have taken care of the most vulnerable people, including those who have the lowest pensions. From this point of view, this government is working, everything else, and cutting deadlines and so on is actually a matter of numbers, stability of the financial system. I believe we are all in favour of keeping this financial system as stable as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kociper, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u164	I thank you both for that answer. I was hoping there'd be something more concrete so we could hold you to your tongue. But I would still take this business opportunity to propose a debate. Of course, the debate will only take place if the coalition thinks that this is important enough to discuss. However, this debate could lead precisely in this direction, so that we can all together ask ourselves what such an epidemic is, one such new virus brings to every society and how to set priorities within new circumstances. I fear that the crown is one of our medium-term futures, with which we will have to live, to manage it, to help people in the social field; but on the other hand, as a society, we must also ask ourselves what priorities we should not forget. For these percentages, it is a matter of saving the situation of some new generations so that they do not find themselves in a situation like those previously mentioned generations, which have worked their entire lives, complemented all conditions and are difficult to live; then we save them through social transfers and so on. We need to give people who have done what they need to do to ensure a normal life, that should be the priority of society. Finding some balance between the new circumstances in the epidemic and these priorities may be something we could discuss in this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Now, Mr Jani Ivanuša will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandri Pivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u166	Good day to all present, especially to the ministers and, of course, to the ministers! I'll just start with the question. The wine sector is one of those who are severely affected by the coronavirus epidemic. Major problems with sales and major economic damage were caused by the decline in sales intended for catering and tourism, since bars, restaurants, hotels were closed, all because of the coronavirus. Transport routes and the flow of goods were also hampered. He stopped tourism. This resulted in a loss of profits from the sale of wines in a segment representing 50 % of sales. As a result, winemakers deal with large quantities of wine, leading to lower prices. According to the European example, the Ministry offers three crisis measures aimed at reducing the supply of wine, namely green harvesting, crisis distillation and crisis wine storage. While the proposal for a regulation relating to crisis distillation and crisis storage is still in interdisciplinary coordination, it was 24. 6. An amendment to the Regulation implementing the support programme in the wine sector has been published in the Official Journal, which introduces an additional green market measure for 2020. Such a measure is usually in play when vineyarding is before breaking. The aid covers 50 % of the compensation for the costs of green harvesting and loss of income. By the end of June, 296 winemakers had submitted their applications, and they were more or less from the eastern part of the country and the Primors were against them. The game is 328 hectares and green harvesting is to be carried out by 10 August. I want to know: How far are coordination and when can we expect the implementation of crisis distillation and crisis storage measures? Who's going to buy the wine stocks for distillation? What is the final price for buying wine? Do you have any information on the quantities? Who will cover the costs of crisis storage and who will provide the premises? Who's going to provide transportation? Who's gonna cover the transportation costs? How much resources are there to tackle the wine sector crisis together under each measure individually? Does the Ministry have a plan or strategy to limit the price of wine imports? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u168	Madam President. Mr Member, thank you for the question. It is true that during the crisis associated with the epidemic, a number of sectors in the field of agriculture are in great difficulty. Surely the wine and wine sector is one of the most affected since they are extremely connected to the hospitality or the entire HoReCa area. At the very beginning of this crisis, we have already begun to plan measures to mitigate as much as possible the consequences that will arise in this way in winemaking and winemaking, so it has been possible at the first stage for wine growers and winemakers to use all those measures that were also available to the other segment of entrepreneurship. It is therefore a decision to exempt farmers from the payment of contributions, a decree or exemption from the payment of income, exceptional aid in the form of basic income, a single solidarity allowance, including basic income, and in short all those measures that could have benefited from other areas within the enterprise sector. A specific measure, which referred to those sectors where the loss of income was more than 20% compared to the average of the previous year, was intended to compensate for the loss of income, which was then proven to be more than 20%, should also be compensated. This is why many winemakers have served in the initial phase of this measure. With the resolution on financial compensation due to the loss of wine production due to the COVID-19 epidemic, we have allocated financial aid to thousands of 922 winemakers, amounting to EUR 2.9 million. This was a measure within the law of the CAP1 aimed at those sectors in the greatest difficulty, I speak within agriculture. At the end of June, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also adopted an exceptional green market measure, which you yourself mentioned, in addition to two other measures, which were also recognised as European measures; and these are crisis distillation and crisis wine storage measures. It was available from the European package for the existing financial perspective for around EUR 5 million, to which we added an additional 6 million to the package with the third anti-korona. So in the sum of then EUR 11 million dedicated to the three mentioned measures. Since we wanted the wine-growing and wine-growing sector to decide how much resources they wanted for any of these three measures, we left this discussion to the sector itself. This decision, how many wine growers will benefit from the green harvesting measure and how much crisis distillation and crisis wine storage measures will benefit from the professional decision or decisions of the users themselves. As has already been said, the last regulation is in coordination. I am convinced that the measure should be ready for use by the end of July and would then allow for the use of this last measure. As has already been said, green harvesting is completed with applications because it needs to be properly implemented and placed in time. This measure is the least desired by the profession, so it is indeed used in an emergency situation where no other measures are available, because the measure itself leaves consequences in the vineyard for the coming years.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr. Member, would you like a word to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u170	Yes, that's all well and good, because these anti-crisis laws have kind of eased, but they haven't completely fixed the situation that's in the vineyard area. You couldn't talk about quantities or crisis distillation, but crisis storage, I don't know if you have any data. You said that by the end of July it would be this; if you already have something, I don't know exactly. But I also asked you: How to limit the priced imports of wine? I know what you're gonna give me in return. We are now members of the European Union, there is free movement of goods and services and there is nothing we can do here. There are always some questions that arise after something to limit this, because with the entry into the European Union these problems have begun to arise. Imports are coming, but unfortunately it's not easy, but let's spend as much as it's coming from us and as much as it's imported. But I'd like to ask you a further question about exports. Slovenians export medium- and high-priced wines while importing low-priced wines, which are of course also of poor quality. Although I have this information, I pulled something myself from Surs, but for 2019 it's not exactly data. I want to know: What is the import/export ratio in 2019 if you have data? Does the Ministry plan to speed up exports and how? Years ago, this was even stimulated by the state, and that is not the case today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u172	Thank you very much for the opportunity to complete. So I'm adding the numbers in the first answer. The quantities currently on the market and should be withdrawn are, at least after the first data collected, 8 million litres of wine for crisis distillation and an additional 8 million litres of wine for temporary withdrawal by means of crisis storage. This is, of course, recorded according to the data collected from the sector. For these two measures, EUR 7 million is foreseen. As far as redemption is concerned, the purchase is now agreed at 0.8 euros, i.e. 80 cents per litre. As far as the import restrictions are concerned, I will really respond in this way. The Ministry does not have any authority to directly restrict any movement of goods. It is true, however, that there is a need to focus on promoting domestic wine demand on the market. Slovenia is an exceptional producer of wines, including high-quality wines, and in particular it is necessary to promote, of course within the limits permitted, this domestic wine and its consumption as much as possible. That is why we, in the Ministry last year, also set up a Council for Wine and Winemaking, consisting of representatives of various groups of winemakers, namely those of the smallest winegrowers, winemakers, their associations, family winegrowers and large cellars. The expectations of this working group are to prepare a strategy for the development of Slovenian wine-growing and wine-growing industries, which have been without strategy for many years, thus focusing only on a few years or on the current situation; then the Ministry responds to help as far as it can. It is also intended to prepare a plan for the promotion of Slovenian wines on the domestic market and also on foreign markets. How do we help export Slovenian wines? We have a European measure available – promotions in third markets, which are also very exploited by winemakers, and the ministry helps them with financial resources.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Madam Minister, for adding to the fact that you've given the answers to what I've been asking you, that's great. But what we're talking about is that then we have 16 million wines in stock or for withdrawal, then this green harvest, that's what bothers me the most. I know you can't answer me anymore because there's no more chance, but still. On the one hand, the state subsidizes the renewal of vineyards, and on the other hand there is no arranged buy-in, sort of. And there's no guarantee there's no ransom, there's a problem. In our pretzel part, there is an offer after buying 5 cents per kilogram of grapes, which is shameful and humiliating. I'm talking about those whiskeys that may not be on the contracts, of those 5 cents, here's a little funny what's going on with this sector. The existence of these five cents per kilogram of grapes simply cannot be created. Let's say an opinion, what do we do? Now we will have all three measures, the real crisis distillation, crisis storage and then green harvesting. Is there then an answer or a recipe, or is it just a temporary nature of these three measures, or is there another position, a pathoposition, or how would you say that things don't work out definitively? I have noticed somewhere Mr Stabuc's statement that the green harvesting will only limit the fire but will not be extinguished as the crane will continue. Let me finish the thought, also one wine-growing family from Zavrč, Mr Janžekovic said – The soul hurts you when you don't hear what you've put up. The problem is, the sector is in crisis, and we hope that even the ministry will take other measures to make things better. Nevertheless, I would suggest that the debate under Article 246 be held, that we may come to the National Assembly and pour ourselves a little more pure wine than close and far away, serving with some new information and situations. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Your proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Gregor Perič will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Magi Space. I therefore ask the Member of Parliament to say whether he wants a written or oral reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! I'd like to ask the Minister for Oral Response at one of the meetings that will follow. My question is mainly related to the area of housing policy. This morning, I grabbed a newspaper and saw on the front page that the prices of new buildings range from 3 to 6,000 euros. We know that these are amounts that some average family, especially young ones, find difficult to afford. That is why my question goes primarily in this direction: How does the Minister see the further development of housing policy in Slovenia? We know that we passed the Housing Law in 2003, or we changed it slightly or supplemented it in the interim period, but it needs some kind of radical intervention, some kind of intervention. The former Minister Simon Zajc has already brought a document far away, a bill of law. That is why my question to the Minister is, above all, in this respect: How does this law, or solution, see for itself within the new government? I think we will all agree that, above all, the Housing Law is the key document from which strategies and further concrete measures come. What would be the timing of the adoption of the new Housing Law? How does the minister see this document with his team, or what else should be added, supplemented, modified, adjusted, so that this document can then come to us in the National Assembly and follow the next steps? The situation is acute, it's serious. For many who decide not only to solve the housing problem but also to form a family, it is one of the key determinants, one of the key conditions that also helps to make them more confident in these thoughts or not. I think that this is also a topic that the demographic office will have to somehow incorporate into its mission as such. My question is mainly in the sense that I want a little more insight into how the minister and the team see the problem of housing in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u177	Thank you very much for your question. As you are told, you will receive an answer at the next meeting. Here we go, Mr Robert Pavšč will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalšku a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u178	Thank you so much and good day to you all! In Parliament, on the issue of financial control of coronaryism, we have completely lost most of the powers we have as a supervisory authority. The government has such powers regarding the reallocation of finances as it has never had in Slovenian history. Moreover, the minimum redistribution reports, which we consider to be in the Commission for the supervision of public finances, do not show a real picture. In all government interventions, including the Statistical Office, equipment can in fact only be used for flat-rate statements by certain government representatives and in some cases blurred data. For some government moves, it is clear from the response of the economy itself that they have no effect or minimal effect. We would expect that now it will be clear where and in particular how you want to take this country. Do not ask me to talk about infrastructure projects, a list of projects worth €7 billion, for which you have yourself decided to implement within the framework of the current ZIPS. We all know what ZIPRS is and what the current budget is; it is obvious that such lists are exactly that – a list of wishes that obscure reality. Social measures aren't what I'm asking you. I was wondering if you could give me a more reasonable answer to the question: What has been the effectiveness of the measures implemented so far for the economy? I ask for specific information through specific measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u180	Mr Robert Pavšič, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, President! Thank you for asking. Although I've got one question, now you've asked me another, I'll try to give you the best answer I can. To the question you have asked me, I will try to answer in full, although at this point I can say that it is too early to assess all the effects of anti-Korona measures. At this point, however, it can already be argued that without these measures, the Slovenian economy would have already deteriorated into a deep abyss – where it landed after the financial crisis in 2008, when we had 130 000 unemployed and a 7.8% decline in economic growth, a strong vital part of the Slovenian economy. The first assessments of the economic consequences of the pandemic were very similar to those of 2008 and I am mentioning these figures. The measures we have taken in Slovenia have been taken in those two objectives, which were and remain primary – job conservation and liquidity. There is something, however, that we are familiar with all the dimensions of the economic recession and must also respond to it. We are therefore complementing measures for which it turns out that they are not addressing problems precisely enough, and therefore we are also taking new ones. Personally, I am sure that we will have to give all the measures that we have already done to companies — from micro to the greatest — to help companies survive the fall and winter. At that time, and we all want this to be the case, we should start turning the economic tides up. The government's concern remains, therefore, that our economic risks remain within the limits that we are able to manage on our own. That's what we're doing right now. But you can see if you look a little bit at the comparable countries in Europe, that in this respect we are more exceptional than the rule. National economies are seriously threatened and we must also point out here that the European Union will have to present a serious plan for revitalising the European economic environment, as well as the social and social environment. The prospects for economic growth have deteriorated significantly in all of our most important trading partners compared to the ones mentioned earlier this year. Umar also predicts a 7.6% GDP decline for Slovenia, which will be followed by recovery in 2021, but will not be achieved in most of the activities prior to the outbreak of the pandemic. The added value is expected to fall the most in catering, recreation, sports, cultural and personal services, hotel and transport services this year. In line with the recommendations of the international organisations OECD and IMF, the Fiscal Council has decided to monitor the public financial impact of the one-off measures taken so far and to update the assessment on a regular basis. And here are some of the numbers that you are probably most interested in; they are not yet merchanistic to be able here or anywhere else to give a relevant assessment of the effects of the measures taken. At the time of adoption of the Koron Package 1 and 3, the government assessed the value of certain measures with direct effects on public finances, totaling around €4 billion. In the 2020 Stability Programme, the assessment of the value of Coronapack 1 decreased, with an official assessment of the two packages totalling around EUR 2.8 billion and 6.2% of the gross social product. By this date, the actual direct impact of the measures is €1.1 billion. In addition, a further EUR 259 million was granted, or interest payments, on tax liabilities. In addition, the Crown Package 2 was adopted, which includes State guarantees through the SID bank for bank loans to companies. The budget impact assessment is €2 billion, and in the second half of July we will already know how many companies and banks actually benefited from the measure from 13. 3. to 30. 6. 2020. Among the actions of the Crown Package 3 will have a greater public financial impact of partially subsidising the reduced working time for which we received applications for 25,000 employees and no payments have yet been made. So far, a good EUR 13 million of tourist vouchers, 13 million per Sunday, has been cashed out of this package, namely EUR 7.4 million for members of the Civil Protection Council. In the preceding week, the measures provided for in package 4 have also been taken to extend the compensation measures to staff on hold until the end of July, with a possibility of an extension of not more than 2 months.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Comrade Pavšič, you have the floor to request a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u182	Thank you very much, President. Well, now that was very interesting. What you read to me, I could read it myself. You've literally read what's on the fiscal world website. The fiscal world accurately cited this data to the euro and accurately quoted it as being identical. Word relations are identical, too. So everything the Fiscal world says is internal and only real to you. Two objectives: jobs conservation and liquidity. No, you didn't keep jobs, you just froze them until autumn. You haven't said in a single sentence what you're planning to do in the fall, so the whole system doesn't collapse. The country has €7 billion in liquidity assets, according to the Fiscal Council. The country is sitting at 7 billion and the economy is dying because you are unable to take effective measures. The second kroner package — nothing, not a single guarantee was issued up to 14 days ago, and now it can be one. I've had an additional question announced in a completely different direction than you've now put them on my tongue. You've read the last report of the Fiscal Council. We can read it ourselves. How will you encourage the economy? How will you ensure that consumer confidence is increased? Of the four crowns, most of the measures already implemented relate to the first coronapacket, which was social, was not for the economy. All that was planned for the economy had apparently fallen into the water. Tell me: What are you gonna do by autumn? At least a short-term strategy if you cannot show the medium-term or long-term strategy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u184	Your Honor, you have been able to ask me a written question with ten words. You're telling a different story here now. Everything I have said we have done, honourable Member. We have better results than the others, and we know what the economy is. We've kept jobs. And in the fourth package, we've prepared ourselves well for the things that await us in the fall, but if you don't want to listen, if you think I'm reading things, we've said everything we've done. The key objective of our actions was, is and will preserve jobs and maintain businesses. We did this to the best of our ability. We know what the numbers are, by means of a four to fall measure, we extend the possibility and instrument of waiting for work. I believe that the economy understands what we are doing well; and from the result in the economy, we, too, will all be able to continue to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u185	Thank you very much. You have the floor for procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u186	Thank you very much. In fact, after this intervention of the Fiscal Council and, apparently, the apparent inability of your team to prepare some credible answers for you, but just rewrites literally what is on the fiscal world website, what else we cannot expect. This year, the state budget was indebted to EUR 5.3 billion in the first half of the year, and the single treasury account account account account accounted for an increase of €7.1 billion from the end of last year until the end of June. We also read this on the fiscal world website. So the debt is extremely high, but for you it is a strategic measure – a waiting-for-work measure; not how we will increase consumption, how we will actually stimulate businesses to live. Finally, we Members will blame you for not being able to draw up one concrete measure. No, the economy doesn't praise you in every way. As far as the social aspect is concerned, jobs have been frozen and there has been no provision for a strategic view of the development of this country in advance. And this rapid, extreme, state debt could be understood if the funds went into the strategic development of this country, but this was clearly and very clearly done only with one purpose to repair or very gently mitigate the liquidity picture of this country. I propose that the National Assembly hold an in-depth debate on this subject, because we see that there are acute problems here; and it is obvious that you do not actually manage these situations. There was not a single strategic direction in the four crowns where we want to come, what we want from this country in the fall. We don't have to judge how much it would cost because it looks like we have enough money, and we don't have ideas. This debt will have consequences if we do not use this money wisely for investment. These consequences will in fact be catastrophic. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I request that we vote on this and that the National Assembly hold an in-depth and, above all, a meaningful debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u187	Thank you very much, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The next question will be asked by colleague Matjaž German, Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister Tomaž Gantar, I am addressing you with a parliamentary question concerning the largest North Sea healthcare institution, we are talking about the General Hospital of Dr. Franc Derganca Nova Gorica in Šempeter. This has faced many challenges in recent years, such as outdated equipment on the one hand, increasing debt to suppliers and, of course, red numbers and some threats that employees will have to be dismissed. Dear Minister, you are relatively well aware of the situation, since you are already a third minister, if I am not mistaken, and you know what happens in isolation, champagne and all other hospitals, we can also draw certain parallels and comparisons of these. I would like to ask you in particular with specific questions: Will the Šempeter hospital be able to receive more financial support, at least for one part of the necessary investment? Is it possible to provide funding from European funds for this hospital, as it is being prepared during the epidemic to play a more important role than some other hospitals in Slovenia at that time? What will happen to the employees, since the former director has predicted a reduction of over 10% of those employed in the hospital? And one key question is: In some ways, how can you compare yourself to a related hospital, an isolation hospital? We are all particularly aware of the differences in treatment when we talk about the three-partite contract between the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance on the one hand, the Ministry on the other and the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia on the third; since in the past some hospitals have been able to resolve these differences, i.e. the method of financing. Mr. Secretary, I know you recently visited the hospital, and I know you also have a certain affinity for this issue. That's why I want to know: What's the plan, what's your view on the rescue of the Šempeter hospital? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u190	Thank you for your word, President. Thank you also for the question to Mr German. Yes, there have been problems in this hospital for many years, and even in last year, when only six hospitals operated negatively, Šempeter was sad among them. In 2017, this hospital received some more than €7 million under the Intervention Measures Act to ensure financial stability. However, the fact is that the situation has not improved significantly. There are many reasons. On the one hand there are of course inside the house, on the other hand there are no doubt also systemic reasons. Inside the house, the hospital will have to show a lot of will to start working like some hospitals that have turned from a negative business to a positive business. But I can agree that without help, of course, this will not be possible. On the one hand, we have a great gap between the scale, between the programme and the number of employees, which can mean, as has been said, a reduction in the number of employees, which is unlikely; on the other hand, the need to – I do not like to use the word productivity in health in this way, but nevertheless – a more effective work, which must also be paid by the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. It is plagued by problems similar to that of most hospitals, many of which are positive, and is said to be too low in the price of health services, especially at the expense of the labour costs which have increased in recent years, but not proportionally in the prices of health services. These differences are, of course, where there is a relative number of employees even more present and pose an even greater threat to the functioning of the healthcare institution itself. And on the other hand, there are still many outstanding outstanding liabilities, I think there are about 10 million of them, which means 18% of the hospital's income; this is a number that the hospital itself certainly cannot solve. In view of the new situation this year, there are major problems or shortages on the one hand in the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, on the other hand, more and more problems in other hospitals in Slovenia, including obligations to suppliers have increased by more than 50 million, about 55.56 million euros, I think that generally without medical care will not work. This year we are preparing a proposal for the Ministry of Finance, not only for this hospital, but for the health system, because without assistance it means that the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute does not have money to finance health care in the last month of this year. A proposal is being prepared before the preparation of the documentation for the budget rebalancing. I hope this is accepted. If so, we will also try to help this hospital here, because I believe that at this point alone, they cannot solve the financial problems they have.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by colleague Željko Cigler, Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac and Minister of Environment and Space Mag. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues, colleagues! I'm asking: Why is the northern part of the 3rd development axis from Šentrupert to Slovenj Gradac financed by Dars and the southern part of the 3 development axis at the New Town? What's the reason for that, Mr. Secretary? In the northern part, traffic due to registered traffic on official numbers is inadequately lower than that of Celje towards the New City or even more so with the New City. But from Šentrupert to Slovenj Gradac is planned a fast road twice by two lanes and from Celje to New Town simply a two-passenger fast road. Therefore, I think that the whole route of the 3rd development axis needs to be financed from the state budget and built on the transport needs appropriately. And for the Minister of Vision, it is a good question for you to hear it, because there are important points. Coal Velenje operates with loss and does not have the means to recover critical incursions and events threatening to disrupt the area of both lakes, Velenjska and Šostanjski, with catastrophic consequences for Velenje, Šostjanj, including the risk of the sinking of Šostanja. How is it possible to adopt a state spatial plan between Velenje and Slovenj Gradec, which does not specify a clear way of delaying huge amounts of material surpluses between 3.3 million and 4.5 million cubic metres as a result of the construction of a fast road? I'm asking: When was the last time an inspector in charge of mining carried out a thorough review of the planned recovery of mines under the Mining Act, and what did he find? What did he load up in Pregogovnik Velenje and why did he not warn the designers that it was impossible to build a viaduct for fast road 3 of the development axis with 500-meter pillars? And here's the question for Mr. Visiak: From what sources does the Ministry of Environment and Space intend to ensure the rehabilitation of the environment and the inhabitants of threatening incursions and to prevent the damage caused by the suspension of emergency interventions to protect property and the environment in the mining area? What do the competent mining inspection services report? Have they been carried out by law and also the necessary inspections of the situation? What did they find out? I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u194	Thank you very much for this question, because it is very weighty, as far as my work is concerned. The third development axis is one of the key elements of ensuring the mobility of the people of very remote places, because they take hours to Ljubljana. As regards investment and investment management of the 3rd development axis, the concessionary company is Dars. The liquidity of the project itself is based on the guarantee law that was passed – I think you were also a Member at the time – at the end of last year, for Velenje–Slovenia Gradec in the northern part and then the section Novo mesto–Mesto in the southern part of the axis, and the closure of this financial structure for such an economically demanding project is possible only with State guarantee. As a result, the State guarantee was accepted. In the meantime, you mentioned this middle part of the 3rd development axis, where it is also necessary to reach it, which is under-spoken in particular because it has been exposed in the past to being an economically unjustifiable project, which I do not think is true. Let me return, this way and the approach of funding, as I mentioned it, through Dars and through the guarantee law, is also defined in the national transport development programme by 2030. But there will be no further mistake in saying that we are supplementing this resolution and that it will come to the National Assembly, we are counting, around the month of September, on the other hand, that even from the Gorjans, this southern part of the 3rd development axis, in the White Region we also define the concessionaire, and this is Dars. With regard to the numbers, if you are interested, the total estimated value of the investment of both sections I mentioned, on which construction is essentially starting. Gaberke, Mr Cigler, we will begin, I hope, in September, because, apparently, there were no complaints about the invitation to tender. And now we only talk about what the price will be; and of course the best choice will be chosen. However, on the first part of the invitation to tender in Gaberk, when the qualification was established, there were no complaints after the eight-day period of the end of the first phase. And now it's phase two, and if there are no big situations, then we can count on the end of September really having the first shovel on the third development axis. The total price in both sections is €720 million and €360 million with the guarantee provided by the State. Of this, €305 million is intended to finance Velenje–Slovenia Gradec, which is what we now have to do, the first part of this section of Gaberka forward. And I hope that Dars will then finish designing very quickly, that we can also finish the rest of the sections against Slovenj Gradc and get to this connectivity as soon as possible, especially to Velenje then forward; and that we will also obtain environmental consensus in the southern part as soon as possible. Let me say that there is also an invitation to tender for this southern part, which is the exit of the New Town East to the Centre. But we have a problem getting an environmental permit. Offers are now being collected and the invitation to tender will be completed shortly. I hope that we will get the money as soon as possible, but let me point out that we are always talking about the northern part because of the volume of the Korosci and about the southern part against the white landscape very little, but the problem is the same. For the southern part, 40 million Euros of grants have also been made, which we have to draw up by 2023; and we will return them if we do not draw this from waiting for environmental consensus. This is a very serious matter, and we are very irresponsible because these procedures are so long-lasting. Why is it funded from Dars, why isn't it direct from the budget? Dars is a state company. Without the State's guarantee, there wouldn't be this department either. And if there's a government guarantee from behind, Mr. Brickler, without fear, this project will go on. And once we plant the first shovel, it'll move even faster. But the important thing is that I want the new Darsa project's management to have no burden on the 3rd development axis, as something that is economically unjustifiable, but as an investment in these places, to decentralise the country. We'll empty out Koroška if we don't connect it to the other parts, and the same goes for the White Country. We will ruin the economy economically because no one will want to develop the economy in Koroška unless it comes from point A at point B in time. Regardless of who the concessionaire is, of course, Dars, but we have this society in our possession, this project is such that it runs.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u195	My friend Ciegler, do you request a supplement to your answer? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u196	Mr. Secretary, thank you for your answer. The fact is that Dars must function in accordance with the Company Act and the road from Šentrupert to Slovenj Gradac will never be profitable and will always cause loss. This will also be felt by the state budget. Secondly, 720 million, like you said, is worth this road, I would say, what I wouldn't say, from your mouth into God's ears, but you're completely in opposite numbers, as interpreted by the profession, which evaluates the matter to more than a billion and a half for this north section of the road from the highway up. Next, I would like to point out that Arso has been asked by the giant mine to determine whether an environmental impact assessment is necessary for the intended intervention. And they wrote: The available amount of materials for the recovery of coal deposits and the consequences of mining is so small that it is not possible to prevent the emergence of new emulsions, nor will it be possible to prevent its proliferation at the time of the active mining of coal, that is until 2054. Due to the lack of material due to underground mining, the area is slowly and controlled. Due to the deficit of the material for the repair of the clots, there is a possibility of new depression. And they write it in here: we're counting on the material from Gaberk. And I'd like to tell you this, Mr. Secretary, and everyone who listens to me. It's a very important project and it's dangerous if we don't make it right. It adds weight to the protective layers of the heifer above the Pesje cave, which can once relax and hit the caves through the crack. What does that mean for coal mining and mining in the mine, you all know. For this case, the coal mine does not have any protective water doors installed in the cave communication trenches. And what can happen here, we can only guess. We don't want that. At the same time, I will tell you that in Levica and ourselves, we personally support the construction of a fast road on the 3rd development axis as soon as possible. It is also needed by the Carinthias and also by the White Landscape, or the connection of Slovenia in this line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u197	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u198	And I'm doing everything I can to make this happen as soon as possible. As a result, we are running all the procedures almost parallel, and we will continue to run parallel, saying that before the building permit, we will start the tendering procedures in order to obtain them in time. It's about value again. The total estimated investment value at current prices without VAT and the financing costs of these two sections, at which construction is started, is EUR 720 million, with a guaranteed state guarantee of EUR 360 million. Of this, EUR 305 million is intended to finance the Velenje-Slovenian Gradec section, whose investment value without VAT and funding costs is EUR 611 million. €54 million for the Novo mesto–Credek section, which is currently under way, is this part of which the investment price is EUR 108 million. So the section Novo mesto–Centre is also co-financed in the financial perspective of €40 million and €39.66. About the last part you asked me about. Guidelines concerning the deposit of surplus material on the section of the Velenje–Slovenianje Gradec road are also provided in the adopted State Spatial Plan. I expect them to be carried out in accordance with it, because it can't be otherwise. The material from the tunnels and excavations will also be used for embankments and surface leveling in the Podgora area and the Podgora connection. All other surpluses, estimated at approximately 400 000 cubic metres, will be used to repair the coal mines of Velenje, which is very important for this part to be properly repaired. This rehabilitation begins with the construction of Gaberk, says this first part, in which this rehabilitation begins. With the construction of Gaberk, landowners already have all the rights to arrange an accessible transport route to these coal mines. However, all temporary storage of material surpluses during construction will only be allowed within the spatial plan area, i.e. pre-arheologically inspected areas outside important areas, as regards nature conservation, beyond the flow profiles of watercourses, flood zones and so on. After the completion of the works, all areas where this temporary storage will be established will be restored to the original state. Even here, as far as this material is concerned, there are solutions. However, I believe that Mr Vizjak will be happy to answer you next time at the first part of the question you raised at the outset.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u199	Thank you very much. You have the floor for procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I ask in a procedural manner that the National Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on this matter, shall hold a debate which is extremely important, in particular in its responsibility to the Velenjskis and to the Korošci. I would like to say this, Mr Minister, the State Spatial Plan does not have clearly defined landfills for this large material. It's quality material. And how building permits are obtained without this in Slovenia, I don't know. In my opinion, it's illegal. Secondly, EUR 720 million, I don't know how you're calculating the road over the Velenje Coal Cave, which is supposed to be on the viaduct now, under EUR 720 million. And on the basis of what is said, the distinguished audience and Mr Minister, I warn the government that the fast road is not built over the mine, and they do not do so anywhere in the world, in my opinion. And the rehabilitation projects of mining and mining and mining and the construction of the urgently needed fast road to Koroška must be separated, otherwise Koroška will never come to the urgently needed fast road. But we know where five times the coster option is to get the road into a fast-track road. This is the rehabilitation or arrangement, the modernisation of the existing regional road from Arje village to Dravograd, where the land is already on state land and there are no concessions or privileges for their land to be dug up, to someone else, and I also answer to Mr Reich. We work in the interests of citizens and citizens and public money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mag. Andrej Reich will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u202	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. My question also relates to the 3rd development axis. As we know, it is a very important project for Slovenia, which strengthens the geostrategic position of Koroška, which connects these inhabitants with Slovenia, which somehow anchors them in Slovenia so that they do not connect to Austria. And I'm interested in Minister Vrtovac's promise at the hearing to check out possible alternatives, i.e. the results of these checks. As we know, there has also been a heated debate in the National Assembly, and my predecessor is also flirting with an allegedly cheaper, more efficient and environmentally acceptable version of F6. At your hearing, you said you'd check different options. I want to know: What are these findings, especially in the fact that some Members were discussing in the light of the destruction of 120 hectares of the best land, the displacement of 150 locals, and the destruction of 43 buildings? As we know, this is a very important project. It is discussed in a way that will be the most expensive average mile of road in Slovenia. So I want to know: What are your findings in view of your promise at your hearing to check out the various possibilities of putting into space? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u203	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u204	Thank you very much. The third axis, in particular this part of Šentrupert or the alternative initially set, F6 vs. Velenje is essentially the centre of the 3rd development axis or one of the key elements. During the first three months of our mandate, we have done a lot of work on this, what it means to move to the other side, how much the costs, what the estimates are, how much money it is and so on. The decision for F2 was three mandates ago, and then it became the F2-2, which is cut up into Mount Oljka, considered one point of advantage over F6, so that we have no final values at F6 or we cannot discuss them and talk about them all over the thumb. And they say it flat-rately, how much the price is there, what the price is here. And when they made a decision for the F2-2, let me say that I went to see for myself where this F2-2 was going and where the F6 we know would go. After the decision F2-2 was taken, the design started from Gaberk to Slovenj Gradc, were selected by Gaberka, so called the east side of Velenje with an industrial better connection, so that next to the highway there would be a fast road, next to this fast road would be Gorenje, Šostjanj and so on. It is said that the western part of Velenja would be more industrially strong and that this would mean unloading and so on. And once Gaberka's starting point towards the north, it's now a discussion of how from Gaberk, everyone, civil initiatives, to bring to F6, to say that the price is there. There are also problems with F6, especially if we go back to repositioning; let me say this takes years. The one who says that a line thing can fit in one year, then tomorrow we figure out what it costs one or the other, and I'll make a quick decision. Do you understand me? But it's not my fault that they chose the track seven years ago or 10 years ago. I can't answer for F2-2. But I went with a civilian initiative to see where F2-2 was going, and some of the circumstances, Mr. Reich, we can go together, it's not very clear to me, I have to say. And I'm not a builder, but I'm listening to the construction work that I do. You are a builder and I would like to go with you once and with my fellow Members to see everything. But the problem is that we have such time dynamics that we start building the Gaberkas and completely change the circumstances where something is going to happen. We can still connect to Arjo village, still, but not to get from Velenje to the highway, it will not be built for the next 15, 20 years. But if someone tells me to put it right now, then we start with an easy variant up, down. As far as the price goes, this highway section is really expensive. It is over €40 million per kilometer. And that would be the most expensive highway section or the section of the fast road from Šentrupert to Velenje. If we don't talk when you go over that corner from Mount Olive up ahead, you go down to Velenj, past the cemetery in Velenj, very bold projects, it would be a lot of work to build; but if the profession said something, it's there, I can't define myself as a politician against the profession, but you understand me. And I also believe that I would like to include part of the profession in the F6 with pleasure, but then there should be decisions. But it's hard to make a decision based on what someone said -- it's cheaper there, and it's cheaper there for the thumb, and we're going to go to that side of the stream, and we're going to drag it through this tunnel here. That's not how it works. And I've consulted here a lot. But the time is such that it's very late, now that we're starting to work the gaberks. If you had turned your time back 15 years when this was being put in place or made a decision, you could have made a different decision in my opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Comrade Reich, supplemental.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. I am really glad that you are working to deal with matters transparently, transparently and that you are not following the barbaric debates. I have asked you a question, as Member Alexander Reberšek asked the former Minister Alenka Bratušek, where he lied, where he lied, and inspired her on the basis of the inn debates that I know all the insidious interests. It should be made clear that the route was placed in the area in 2007, when there was a similar coalition on the government, the government's spatial reception plan. And I'm also glad that in the then government, including your predecessors or your client, you followed the profession, not the street. And I am also sure that Minister Gasperšič then issued a building permit as Minister of the Environment and Space in the previous mandate and will now be appointed to Dars, so that the matter will certainly run in a transparent manner. However, I would like to get a clear assurance on your part as well, your finding that this route is appropriate, that it is chosen according to the rules of the profession; and that for the second route that some so favored, we do not know where it should take place at all, that there is no list of land and that no other step has been taken to justify the choice of any other route. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u208	To make no mistake, this F6 route was then compared to F2 and were equivalent, point of difference, very little. For example, it may have been the point of difference because it was written that there are only 12 thousand jobs in Celje, and in fact there are 24 thousand jobs; and this connection is not ensured between Celje and Velenje. I don't know, but it was compared and the point of difference is, so the routes are like that, and the construction profession is divided here. But there will be no mistake, and I will say that Ambassador Alexander Reberšek and Željko Cigler both defend a certain thing from the opposite shores not because they are so stubborn and certainly do not lie, do not deceive, but are heartwarming for a certain thing that they do not care about, that it has happened. And if I were a local resident there, or if I owned certain agricultural land, which would ruin your entire activity, I would probably have faced it, too, whether I or you have different opinions here. These are the local people, the locals, who just look at things, if they go across their yard some new object, completely different. As far as I know, Alexander Reberšek is not lying, I do not have such an opinion, but he is fighting heartily for a particular project, his home environment and that is it. Just because someone's trying to do a certain thing, even in political space, doesn't mean he's lying. As far as F2-2 is concerned, this is where it goes through agricultural land. I went to look at it, the belt goes all the way through agricultural land, but once again, I'm not a builder and not an expert, and I think that Parliament, this space, normally should not be, we can draw discussions, but usually this is not the place, but we follow really the profession. As for the change of route, this is what it is for now; but if someone tells me that the route will be – and we get comparative studies – for half the price, and we put it in two years and we start building it in three years, I'll sign it here today. Okay? If this new route F6, as Željko Cigler says, will be so much cheaper, let's put it right away; I don't think the Koros will mind moving it, and no one else; but for now I don't have these assurances, but when I get them, there's no problem. But there's not much time. We're gonna start building Gaberke, no matter where the other route goes, and that's what I hope is the month of September.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Gigler's stomach, procedurally related? I can; I just hope it's not a violation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u210	Dear colleague President, I would just like to warn you about this. To mark the debate of an individual Member, who is not here, based on inn-books, deception and lying, when a Member has discussed, has always cited the facts and so on, is at least incompatible with parliamentary ethics, as well as with the subject [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Please note, however, the correctness of your fellow Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u211	Dear colleagues, I suggest that we all calm down a little, that you choose your words carefully; however, it is true that I have to respect freedom of speech to a certain extent. I don't think there was anything today that would very much exceed the limits of some of the set goals that we have in our code. A colleague of mags. Reich, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u212	Of course, I propose that this topic be discussed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It's an important topic, it's a subject where a number of questions have been raised. Let me repeat once again that the State Spatial Plan was adopted in 2007, and that was also part of the New Slovenia government coalition, which was backing the DN. The building permit was issued by the then Minister of Gasperšič, who is also appointed to Dars today. I would like to have a debate in this debate especially because some of the colleagues here in these decisions that have been taken raise doubts. Let me point out that then Minister Alenka Bratušek merely followed the findings and conclusions of the profession and the courts, did not accept and lobby for any route. In the National Assembly, we have witnessed lobbying for a new route, lobbying for new land purchases, and we must be aware that land sellers, land brokers receive percentages, receive commission. And since I have also repeatedly asked all those in this National Assembly who are advocating a new route to come up with a list of lands and names of owners, and have not done so far, please let the debate take place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The next question will be asked by Edvard Paulič, Minister of Infrastructure Jerne Vrtovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u214	Thank you for your word. My question relates to the transport road on the Želodnik-Vodice route, which was placed in the space of the 2004 State Location Plan Regulation, of which it has been 16 years. It is a road that connects the Styria and Gorenje highway, the activities for the construction of this road are divided by Dars leading the project to the acquisition of the building permit and the construction itself is under the responsibility of the Slovenian Infrastructure Directorate. Why is this connection so important? It is important to know that a significant part of freight traffic going from Gorenjska to Stajerska and vice versa, flows across the settlements Želodnik, Domžale, Mengeš, Command and Vodice, we are talking about local roads. Part of the traffic also flows through the Ljubljana ring and thus increases the crowd. It should also be known that one of the major business zones in Slovenia was built on the Command-Vodice route years ago, which means a lot of freight traffic. Last year was an open part of the road past Mengsha, that's one part of the road on this route I'm talking about. I note that the situation, at least as far as Mengsha is concerned, has been partially improved, but until the whole link is established, there will be no greater impact. There is no mandatory road past the settlements of Command, Vodice and Domžale. The government has recently adopted a list of important infrastructure projects. I looked at that list, and there's no road on that list. If I've missed, of course, please correct me. However, this obliging road was part of the development programme plans over the past years and also had funding resources. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Minister, in particular: What is the state of the projects on these missing sections? And more than that, what's the timetable?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u215	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u216	Thank you very much. This traffic, however dynamic, is particularly crucial due to freight traffic. We unload everything that comes to Maribor, Celje; not only to Slovenia, but also to Austria, for example. This part of Austria is thus burdened, even because of the various prisons that can be held in Austria’s Styria, this road is very important; or we are burdening the entire northern Ljubljana ring. I live there alone in the immediate vicinity, and I know that there is a very big problem among the locals, because if you cut the road, if you go out on the Mole, then through the Želodnik, past Domžal and Mengša, which saves many miles. As regards Vodice, it was decided, as you mentioned, that construction is under the authority of the DRSI. Dars is responsible for the acquisition of all necessary properties, the production of project documentation, PZI, the acquisition of all necessary building consents and other permits. I hope that this dynamic will now take place with even greater speed and efficiency. Let me say that according to the above-mentioned DRSI waters within the NRP bypass Vodice the fourth stage of the Želodnik-Mengesh road, everything else is headed by Dars. As far as Mengsha's concerned, you know Dars was involved. Let me say we had the end of the month. I think it was 24. 6th, one day before the State holiday, a meeting on this subject. Dars informed the DRSI that they had submitted all applications for a building permit. The meeting was very effective, let me say, so the DRSI has already begun the process of preparing the tender documents, we will go to the tender and select the most favourable bidder. DRSI has also obtained a transport study and transport and economic evaluation laboratory and an investment programme, together with a co-financing agreement, which is still in coordination with the municipality of Vodice. I know that, for example, an engineer has already been chosen for supervision and after obtaining a legal building permit, and if they do – I believe that – resources will be provided in the budget, the DRSI will be able to start building. You can see this for yourself that we have left the roadblocks or the carriageways mostly off this list, but if the money is provided in the budget, there will be no problem with this project. In particular due to the business zone Command, the loads through Vodice must be made as soon as possible, which is part of this entire carriage to Command by Vodice. What we have now, heavy trucks through you, through Vodice, is really inappropriate and injuries on the road and also on other facilities, apartment facilities are exceptional. This part's in progress. Further, however, it will be necessary to agree, for example, on Dars, which would be easier to build the whole of the stomach then on, in what way it would be a toll road, or a toll road only for trucks or also for cars. How to place this story in its entirety, since the financial resources derived from the budget and with which it has the resources of the DRCI are limited. But this is a rather large and extensive project. It can be started here very quickly, as there is essentially tender documentation in the preparation phase.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Would you like a word to supplement?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u218	Thank you very much. I am pleased that you know this issue and also that you have mentioned in particular the problem of the settlement of Vodice. It is necessary to know that every day 2 thousand trucks and 10 thousand cars pass through this settlement and that only one road passes across the village of Vodice. I drive there every day, so I know her well. The road is very narrow and has two narrower areas, two more narrower ones, where it is difficult to meet two passenger cars. There is also a primary school nearby, along the sidewalk along this road the school trail. In the event that you meet a passenger and freight vehicle, there is simply no other solution than to drive the cargo vehicle onto the sidewalk. I stopped on purpose today and took pictures of this narrowing down of the road. Here along the road there are metal pillars and when a truck meets another passenger vehicle, it easily overruns these carts. However, it is important to know that children walk through these sidewalks to school. If I look at the entire route of this roadway, the most important is the Vodice bypass, as you said. My appeal to you is that this section begin as soon as possible. Of course, the whole section, as you yourself mentioned, is also important.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Minister, would you like another word?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u220	I believe that you will be a local Member, and I, the Minister of the Hero, will then start construction, very quickly, within two years, if luckily, especially the Vodice bypass, if I stress again, and also give the Business Zone the Command of All Operations, because the road infrastructure there is truly problematic and the whole link then forward to Kamnik. First we save Vodice and then we save the connection to Mengsha. This also relieves the huge part of Mengsha or other local roads around there; and then Radomlje towards Želodnik, but I think it will be for the next term.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by colleague Jani Prednik, Minister of Finance Andrej Širclj.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u222	President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, all other ministers present! The pension system in Slovenia is based on compulsory pension insurance, paid by the active generation and, of course, on intergenerational solidarity. However, an essential part of the long-term stability of this system is based on the statutory obligation of the State budget to cover any pension deficits arising from the payment of a reasonable amount of pensions. The same law also provides for the budgetary coverage of pension obligations of the STIZ, which are not due to paid-up insurance. We're talking about a pension for credits, veterans, victims of war violence and the like. The obligations under Articles 161 and 162 of the ZPIZ-2 are not small, we all know. All projections show that they will also increase significantly in the coming years, as the relationship between workers and pensioners will deteriorate. And since its long-term sustainability is important in the pension system, which would also provide pensions for people my age or younger today, I am interested in the following four things: What are the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia to STIZ after 161. and 162. Article ZPIZ-2 in the last five years? What are the projections of these budgetary commitments for the coming decades? How many additional resources will the state budget have to provide to the pension institution between 2020 and 2060, so that my generation can also count on a pension that will, of course, be earned by its work? In what way does the Republic of Slovenia intend to ensure its ability to pay the PPIZ budget document in critical years, when substantial more payments are needed to ensure the stability of the pension fund than today? What public funds and to what extent are you prepared to redirect from the budget for the purpose of preparing for the critical demographic period ahead of us in 15, 20 years? Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u223	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u224	Thank you for the question, honourable Member. It is true, as you said, that the budget is required to ensure the stability of the pension system. In other words, this means that these two articles, which you have already mentioned, Article 161 and Article 162 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, ensure that the budget covers so-called current legal obligations or additional obligations. And since you have been asking me in the first question about the data for the last five years, I can say here that, on the basis of these two articles, in 2015, it was paid by the budget to the pension fund a billion 416 million 846 thousand 799; in 2016 a billion 267 million 480 thousand 380; in 2017 a billion 119 million 893 thousand 903; in 2018 a billion 6 million 754 thousand 774 and in 2019 – 918 million 678 thousand and 88 euros. As you can see from this, the reduction of this contribution from the budget is obvious from 2015 to 2019 mainly due to the fact that, at the time of economic growth, pension contributions also increased. As a result, the contribution from the budget was so low. How's it going? We have a long-term projection of expenditure due to population ageing. And here I would like to say that in the European Commission and also in Slovenia, we analyse these expenditure, analyse demographic movements and also analyse all projections, especially at the Ministry of Finance, by managing the fiscal policy aspect. And if we look at all the costs associated with population ageing, here I would like to point out that these are the costs associated with pensions, health care, long-term care, education and unemployment benefits, then we can say that these projections show that the expenditure on ageing in Slovenia will increase from 21.9% of the gross social product to 28.3% of the gross social product, amounting to 6.3 percentage points. Here we know that gross social product is about 45 billion today, which means an ever-increasing contribution or an ever-increasing increase in expenditure. Only Malta and Luxembourg are among the European countries where these expenditure increases more than in Slovenia. And if we now take only those expenses which increase in relation to the pension system, then for this period 2016-2070 we estimate that they will increase by 3.9 percentage points during this period. How to provide additional resources? One is certainly the demographic fund that I have already talked about, and I can talk about it now. This demographic fund has been legal since 2014 and no government has actually done what it should have done by law since 2014. At that time, there were three governments, and none of them did, none of them were aware of it. And from this point of view, of course, it is necessary to establish a demographic fund in order to increase synergies. Where are these increased revenues going to come from? On the one hand, we have contributions, on the other hand we have a demographic fund and, of course, we also have a budget. At this point, we have three sources here. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u225	Thank you very much. My friend Prednik, would you like a refill?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u226	I will ask a further question to allow the Minister to continue his reply. Yeah, you mentioned this demographic fund yourself. We all know that we have been talking about him since probably 2004. Neither the first Janša government, nor Pahoreva, nor the government of Bratuška, Cerar's government, nor the government of Sharčev succeeded with the demographic fund. I'm glad I could read in the media that your top of the coalition was talking about the demographic fund a while ago. Although I was somewhat concerned that I later realized that you were more likely to argue about where the headquarters would be or who would run the fund. I hope that you will give the content as the first and only then everything else, because this is one of the most important issues that this government and Parliament must accept if we are to have a smooth payment of pensions in the future. I hope that you will find good solutions and that then we will quickly get this demographic fund through the procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Here I would like to add and thank you for the additional question of the honourable Member. It is likely that the demographic fund has been discussed in this Parliament for a long time, but since 2013 legislation has provided that this demographic fund should actually be established. From this point of view, I am talking about the last eight years when none of these governments have done so; despite the fact that Desus' proposal and the SDS proposal were, but these two proposals did not go to the so-called second reading because the then coalition or government actually rejected this law. Why is that? It is about bringing state assets together under one roof, the demographic fund is likely to need to manage it and seek synergies; on the other hand, it will be possible to manage it differently: according to strategic investments, with regard to investment in real estate, portfolio investments, perhaps some specific activity-specific activities and sectors and so on. But it's a matter for the board and the board of directors. Here, in particular, synergies are sought and state assets are merged under one roof so that this synergy can actually be achieved. But today I also hear in the National Assembly various points of view and also some questions, dilemmas, but who would not go to this state fund, but who would not go to the pension fund, which the company did not, and which activities did not. Here we need to unify these positions in this direction in order to look at the basic objective – this is to ensure a stable pension system and the synergies between the centralisation of state assets. This is the only way to ensure stable funding and thus ensure the funding required by the demographic picture of this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u229	Thank you very much. My friend Prednik, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u230	According to the Minister's forecasts and even after what we have been able to tell from the media, the government is likely to be speeding up the demographic fund. Since we expect you to bring the procedure through the Government as quickly as possible and then send it to the National Assembly, I do not require a general discussion, because we will probably be able to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u231	Thank you very much. My colleague, Rudy Medved, will ask the Minister of Public Administration, Boštjan Koritnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u232	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister! We'll probably agree that we're already in the water and the water will reach our throats by autumn. We have so little time left to implement the Constitutional Court's decision on elections to the National Assembly. And although it seems easier after the National Assembly has rejected amendments to the Elections Act to the National Assembly, this task now seems easier, i.e. it takes 46 votes and not 60 votes to change the Elections Act to the National Assembly; however, I feel that things have been going so far that this task of changing the borders of the constituencies may be even harder. To that end, of course, we expect the active role of the Ministry of Public Administration, as has been the practice so far. And in this respect, I'm going to ask you, first of all, I'm going to ask you: How do you explain the term “approximately”? Article 20 of the Law on Elections in the National Assembly states that each constituency is divided into 11 constituencies, so that in each constituency about, I repeat, about the same number of inhabitants. With regard to the concept of what it means in Slovenian about, they will continue to draw up opinions in confidence, as has been the case so far. I want to know: How do you see this “approximation” or how many voters in the individual constituency could deviate after the border change, given that somehow the average value of the constituency is about 19,000 voters? When can we expect a qualified bill in the National Assembly to serve as a basis for changing the borders of the electoral districts?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u233	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u234	Thank you, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Member, Mr Medved, thank you for your question. I see that we're going to be regular interlocutors on questions sent to me, which I like, because that means that when someone closely monitors your work, it also motivates you to do better. With regard to electoral legislation, I have made it clear several times that the main priorities for implementing the Constitutional Court decision are within the prescribed time limit. Of course, I would like this to work for the former government, because then I would have one less concern; but now, as you yourself said, it is necessary to face the challenge and solve it. In doing so, I will not put myself on the trenches, which is the basis for answering your question, how do I understand the word around? I can have my own opinion; what the profession thinks is crucial, Members, because in the end this will be a political response. What I understand is that the number of voters is not the only criterion, but the population, as stated in the law, is also geographical rounding. According to the position of the Venice Commission, one is a basic situation, the main derogation, and the other is an exception from the basic one. The answer, as far as possible, is not necessarily the one that weighs heavily in terms of roundness, even if the maximum roundness is 30%, it can still be exceptions, which somehow also solve geographical roundness as one of the legal criteria. As I would say, it is now suggested that we will address this issue in the direction of adapting the borders of the election thefts. On Wednesday this week, Mr Zorčič, President of the National Assembly, will also hold consultations with prominent constitutional lawyers and leaders of parliamentary groups. As you know, the SMC party from which I come is still most inclined to abolish electoral thefts and introduce a priority vote, but of course it is also willing to support the adjustment of the electoral borders. Here I appeal to the state-of-the-art position of the coalition and the opposition to find an appropriate solution together; however, it shows that it is not as essential as my personal opinion, as it is essential that we properly implement this constitutional decision before 21 December this year. We, as you know, have also prepared, under your guidance, a tool at the Ministry of Public Administration where individual representatives of the parliamentary groups, individual parliamentary groups and representatives of the profession can prepare their proposals for the modified districts. On the basis of the results, we will get a basis on which we will then also draw up a final solution. This meeting, this workshop was on June 23rd. I am pleased that you have also attended, which suggests creative cooperation, but we have not received any proposals before last week. This is certainly not what we will be waiting for; it is crucial that we prepare an expert solution or proposal as soon as possible. However, talking to the expert is crucial and this will also be the focus of this mid-term meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Comrade Bear, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u236	Thank you. Yes, also the List of Marjan Šarca – as you mention, the minister, his client – of course, still advocates the abolition of election thefts and the introduction of a relative preferential vote, but unfortunately this train was somewhere in the fall of last year when it was still real. It is absolutely good to animate the profession, when we discussed the abolition of election thefts, the profession was very loud. When we started to clear up the dilemmas, where we could go with the changes in the elections, but of course the profession did not advertise, we did not hear virtually any real position from constitutional lawyers, or we could get an explanation from the largest parliamentary party that says the situation is as it is, it is currently constitutionally controversial; but if we correct the electoral boundaries a little bit, they will be somewhere between 1 and 3, it will still be fine; what we have always said is not true, and we judge that such a solution could be constitutionally controversial. This app is really just some kind of tool, too. I wouldn't rely too much. The parties will, however, expect a qualified proposal, which will be sent to the National Assembly by the Ministry of Public Administration. As has been said, at least so far it has been agreed that the law or amendment of the law will be submitted to the National Assembly by parliamentary parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u238	Thank you. Yes, indeed, the analysis of the 2017 National Election Commission showed that the differences in size between the constituencies are up to 1 in 3.73. At the same time, we have a decision of the 1992 Constitutional Court, when the Constitutional Court found that the derogations between electoral districts of rank 1 to 3 are not yet unconstitutional. As you said, we did not get many views of constitutional lawyers or they were absent in all this debate. This too will be aimed at this mid-term meeting. As it is said, the number of inhabitants is not the only criterion, I stress once again; the application has been prepared for voters, the law speaks of residents, somehow correcting future changes. Also geographical roundness, the historical basis – these are also key criteria. We certainly have a lot of work to do; it is crucial that we reach a political consensus that the proposal will have adequate political support.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u239	Thank you very much. A fellow bear, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u240	Thank you very much. It is precisely because this is really a first-class political theme and because we are all really running out of time and because of some of the parties in the National Assembly we have not even heard what position they have towards changing the borders of election thefts, which was somehow understandable, because most of the parties, I will not say by the number of Members, but most of the parties have always advocated the abolition of the borders of election thefts and the introduction of a relative preferential vote and did not even deal with the borders of the constituencies themselves. This also turned out to be at your invitation to the Ministry, and I think we came there three representatives of the three parties, and then the representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party left relatively quickly because he was not satisfied with what was on the table at the time. In any event, there will be the greatest burden at the Ministry of Public Administration at the end, as has been the case in the past with regard to the resolution of this issue, so I propose that before this big final the National Assembly discuss this subject to exchange views, we will also be supported by expert opinions on how we see changes in the electoral borders. This thesis to change the boundaries of electoral thefts, but would virtually remain the same, even this thesis is present, it will probably be difficult to do and it will be difficult to abstain from constitutional judgment. President-in-Office, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision on elections to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The next question will be raised by Andre Zabret, Minister of Finance Andrej Širclj.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u242	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Minister! In the government, you have estimated the value of the effects of the first and third anti-Korron Act to total EUR 4 billion. Later, in the 2020 Stability Pact programme, you lowered the value of the first coronation law, making the official assessment of both packages total around EUR 2.8 billion and 6.2% of GDP. At the time of the adoption of the two packages, the fiscal world totaled 2.3 billion and 5.1% of GDP. In May and June, the Fiscal Council published first estimates of the actual expenditure of anti-crisis measures and recently, on 5 July, it updated the review with new data. The actual and direct impact of the measures is thus slightly less than 1.1 billion, and an additional EUR 259 million has been set aside or interest payments of tax liabilities, not affecting the expenditure of the State, but merely liquidity. So far, the state aid amounted to 1.1 billion of the estimated approximately 4 billion, indicating the inefficiency of the measures. The government has also drawn up a second anti-korona law introducing a guarantee scheme for loans to companies or a so-called liquidity package; however, this scheme has not yet been implemented in practice. Recently, even in the media, we were able to see that she was not going to live until September. This — I must admit — is a disaster. And why didn't this scheme come to life? Among other things, because you did not install a mechanism whereby banks would know how many guarantees are still available. I must say that we have already proposed this solution in the LMŠ by the end of April, and unfortunately, the coalition on the Finance Committee has strongly rejected it. And the fact that companies will not receive loans with State guarantee until September also means that due to such a colossal delay there will be fewer taxes and contributions to the state treasury. This year, the country has jointly committed itself to more than €5 billion in dizziness. On the other hand, the actual direct impact of the first and third anti-Koronic package, according to the Fiscal Council, is currently slightly less than 1.1 billion euros, as I have already said. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: Why are we in charge of such a large sum if it appears that the actual financial consequences of the crisis measures taken will be much smaller than you originally predicted? We know that debt will be repaid by current and future generations, so it would be important to get these answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u243	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Master Andrej Shircelj. I called you wrong with the doctor earlier. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u244	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Thank you very much for asking. First of all, public finances and measures are no disaster. Here I'm just summarizing your words when you're talking about the catastrophic state of public finances and so on. Secondly, the data provided by you are changing daily and these data are, of course, dependent on the period we are actually monitoring. Here I can say that the Fiscal Council has deviated from fiscal rules, in other words, the Fiscal Council no longer demands that expenditure be equal to income. I would like to draw attention, as follows, to the fact that the National Assembly, by decree, has made it possible for about 2 billion more expenditure, meaning in other words that these expenditure may exceed the income or be so much higher, due to the covid crisis. These assessments, which you have discussed, are at first glance underestimated because an assessment has already been made to assess the country's sector deficit in 2020 following the ESA methodology of 3 billion 706 million. In other words, this represents approximately 8.1% of the gross social product. From this point of view, it is necessary to say that even in comparable countries with an epidemic and also with an epidemic crisis, these deficits even exceed the estimated deficit in Slovenia, thus amounting to 10.8% of the gross social product in Italy, 11.5% of the gross social product in Belgium. In other words, the epidemic has affected Europe as a whole and the whole of Europe is actually operating in completely different economic and financial circumstances than before the crisis. Also with regard to the banking measures discussed, I can say that these are actions involving the Bank of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance, the SID Bank and the Business Bank. The Ministry of Finance has aligned itself with the Bank of Slovenia on a sub-legislative act concerning a regulation adopted by the Bank of Slovenia and on the basis of which it has ensured that this Regulation is in fact also in line with all the rules laid down here by the regulator of the European Central Bank in respect of banking. According to information that is also in the media, some banks have already started to operate and are already actually lending these loans. However, according to the information we have, in fact, banks, whether or not this scheme has lived in the past, have allowed a large number of companies to obtain such or different loans or loans, depending on the business itself. From this point of view, we can say that because of the coronal crisis there are complex public finances, there are additional expenditures that are defined in all the coronapackets, where this is actually happening so that everyone who can take advantage of the possibilities for different compensations – here I can speak from students to those who can use these compensations to wait for work – has not taken full advantage of them. From this point of view, data is interesting and far from being a disaster or a financial situation unstable.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Colleague Zabrett, do you request a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u246	Thank you for your clarification, Minister. But I didn't say that public finances were a disaster, but that disaster was this guarantee scheme that didn't work yet. That's what I'm talking about. In Germany, this measure was already adopted in March because it seemed to them that it was one of the most important measures to ensure liquidity for companies. However, I hope that the disaster will not end at the end of the year in a public financial result when it is announced that the public debt should be around 5 billion and 6 billion more than last year 2019 when we had a surplus. Minister, I hope that you have a strategy ready to use all this money, which will be reflected in public debt, and that it will go for the right purposes, for example in the economy, investment, development and science, because with all this we will have a multiplier effect, otherwise we will only have the debt that we, our children and all future generations will repay. And unfortunately, I can't help but that the government is dealing with matters such as the dismissal of Director Surs, for whom a constitutional assessment has also been made, whether the exchange was legal; the amendment of the DURB statutes; the incorporation of repressive solutions into anti-Korona laws such as mobile applications; and so on. And all your pro bono advisors in the meantime get important positions in the management of state property. Minister, once again, I ask you: What's your exit strategy? After all, you will also have to explain this to the Fiscal Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mag. Expand, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u248	Thank you very much, President, for your word. This year's Coronavirus has given rise to a slightly more than €2 billion debt. That was approved by the National Assembly. This has been approved by you, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. And for these purposes, there has actually been a greater responsibility. If you are looking at public debt as a percentage of gross social product, both variables have gone in the opposite direction — debt up, gross social product down; in other words, this also means a higher percentage. And we can count on that. On the other hand, it is true that the European Commission is forecasting faster economic growth than on average in the European Union, as well as a smaller decline than on average in the European Union, which means, in other words, that these measures adopted have been in some way effective. Second of all, the economy is working. Here I have to limit myself to one sector that works much less, this is tourism that has been most affected. And on the other hand, there are some signs that the economy is also going up. From this perspective, of course, it is also expected to stabilise public revenues, which will need to be carried out in accordance with the Fiscal Rule Act, meaning in other words that the Government will submit to the Fiscal Council a way, conditions and also a precise plan of how this will happen. The first one here, which I think is eligible for this plan, is the Fiscal Council. The government will submit this plan to the Fiscal Council in accordance with legislation. From this point of view, there is no doubt that this would not happen; and there is no doubt that measures will also be presented in this plan as to how Slovenia, while of course there will be no more co-existence of the crisis, will enter into a state where income and expenditure will be evenled. Of course, we will also discuss this with the Fiscal Council, during which period this plan will actually be implemented.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Colleague Zabrett, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u250	Since public finances are really important and although you say that the economy works, yes, works, but the government still forgets certain groups, such as the service industry, we also receive e-mails from entrepreneurs, especially smaller entrepreneurs, who sell at stands who cannot actually provide their services because all fairs and events are banned. As a result, this also affects public finances. Since I have not received a concrete response, I propose that this be discussed at one of the next meetings of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The next question will be asked by colleague Violeta Tomić, Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simoni Kustec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u252	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister Simona Kustec, you are probably aware of the fact that we are already dealing with the pressing issue of the High School for Design and Photography, which is still in Križanka, where it is home for 70 years. In agreement with the Municipality of Ljubljana, they are expected to move on September 1, 2022, but have no guarantee of where to go. This agreement with the Municipality of Ljubljana was made during the time of your predecessor, Minister Pikal, and in this mandate we have called two meetings, where we have adopted quite binding conclusions. The first meeting was held in the mandate of your predecessor, where we voted on the moratorium for 3 months, at which time the Ministry would re-examine all possibilities for solving the spatial problem and prepare an appropriate timeline and report to the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth. Unfortunately, this did not happen, and the proceedings continued. That is why we called for a new session where we voted a new decision, which says that the Central School for Design and Photography must stay in the Križank facility and preserve it as a vital historical core of the school, while at the same time solving the spatial difficulties by building new spaces in the urban cultural environment. We have seen in the media that Mayor Zoran Jankovic is becoming impatient and that the country has set an ultimatum to decide whether or not Križank wants municipal land in Trnov or not. This would mean evicting the school from its premises until autumn 2020 without any assurance as to where the educational process would be carried out after that date. I am therefore interested in: To what extent have you come to know the pressing question of Križank? What is your position on this exchange agreement with the Municipality of Ljubljana? We have also seen from the media that at the school ministry you still hope to continue talks with the Municipality of Ljubljana and you want a solution, which I quote, “in the good of both sides”. I want to know: What solution could this be, which would be good for both sides; and how far would you go with these arrangements? How real and, in fact, is the property exchange that the Ljubljana Municipality has been negotiating with the previous minister? The mayor, as we know, has asked the Ministry to make a statement on the intention. Now you've got an ultimatum. I want to know: How does the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport respond to the ultimatum by the Municipality of Ljubljana? Will the Ministry agree to such blackmail? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mrs. Tomic! As you rightly said, it is one, say, topic that has a long beard and is connected, as usual, when immediate solutions do not occur, including with different views, different interests as to how to resolve it. Specifically in this case Križank we have three important content that we will have to deal with in some way and also to solve them properly and put them in our place. One is related to the implementation and enforcement of one modern design and photography school programme at the premises that will meet today's needs for the implementation of this educational process. And the fact is that despite this long tradition that this school has in Križanka's premises, the premises do not fit, they are no longer sufficient if we really want to take one quality, modern education on these content. That's part of the story. The second part of the story relates to the protection of cultural heritage and to the fact that we also need to strictly respect these so-called revitalising approaches to the protection of cultural heritage and that we cannot and must not unduly interfere with the redefinition of this cultural space. The third story, however, is that which you have also touched directly, relates to ownership relations. On the one hand, the cultural heritage which the State provides through the Ministry of Culture, on the other hand, is the school premises which are again owned by the State or under the responsibility of the Ministry responsible for education, science and sport. And the third part, which touches the ownership of the Municipality of Ljubljana. We're kind of spinning around here. We are also very active in this mandate, we are in dialogue with all involved, on the one hand within our own species, especially in relation to the Ministry of Culture, as well as with the Municipality of Ljubljana. As we say, our way of working is to find solutions in a cooperative, dialogueic way; absolutely not through ultimatums. If they're putting up an ultimatum, then we need to sit back and cool our heads down so we can move on. I hope so, and also all the promises show that we will not have to do this in this story, but that we will be able to come up with one optimal solution, which will follow this work, which we would like to draw on in the end, and this is also an active, intensive parliamentary debate through your parliamentary group, and also colleague Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti is very active in opening up this topic, which is also being discussed here. And I think it's right; I think it's also the conclusions that were made on the 15th. 6. At this last joint emergency meeting of the Committee on Culture and Education, they are good and we follow them in what we do. In short, to find one place to provide modern and good education on the one hand and respect for cultural heritage on the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u255	Thank you very much. My colleague Tomić, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u256	Thank you, Your Honor. I hope you've reassured us all with what you've just said, because we know that Plečnik has dedicated these premises to a formal school. These rooms breathe with creativity and the last thing you would like is to become these Plečnik spaces, which are a cultural monument of national importance, at the end of some wardrobe or warehouse for performers within the festival. I hope that the vital part of the school will remain in Križanka, but that the spatial distress will then be further resolved elsewhere. This is also the wish of all students who are very attached to this space, including professors, unions, parents, interested public. As you know, there was also a petition with the title Križank not to be given. The fact is that we need to preserve such content within the city's core so that they can also have architectural specialities such as Križanka, in fact, their purpose. And now we know that the country owns about 52% of Križanka, the remaining 48% are municipal, the state has more, so I think the negotiating position is good. I want to know: Do you know how many municipal areas the school actually uses? How, then, will they be replaced if or when they have to be emptied? When will the urban competition be launched to choose the most professional urban solution or the municipal detailed spatial plan? As we know, Plečnik predicted that the school would spread there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u258	Yes, once again perhaps, our sincere desire – and I absolutely appreciate that it is on both sides – is that we find a solution that will, on the one hand, respect the wealth of cultural heritage and, on the other hand, respect the current, modern, modern criteria, principles, also the standards of the educational process, especially in this area of design and photography, which is particularly important in terms of art, because it has to find some creative, open space to be creative. And in this sense, solutions are now being sought that go mainly a little physically out of this space, but still close; and still into one such space – also historically – creative, rich, with different types of experience, in the area of so-called Roška. There's one part planned. As we are said to be able to reach a final agreement with the Ljubljana Municipality – because this is also in some way related to other important projects, at least in the field of education and science, such as the Center of Science – and this is now a matter of dialogue, a matter of conversation that we are having with the Ljubljana Municipality at this time. And I believe that in the end we will find a solution that will not, let's say, be commercial; but a solution that will primarily respect the two key issues, on the one hand, cultural heritage and preservation, respect for this work; on the other hand, the provision of as much space as possible for the educational process.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u259	Thank you very much. The next one has the word of colleague Yuri Leipzig, who will raise the question to Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u260	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Dear Minister, all other colleagues and colleagues! As clear advocates of the rights of the elderly in the Desus Group for many years, we have been pointing out the necessary regulation of the long-term care area. The fact is that Slovenia is becoming an ageing society and projection that predicts that the proportion of people over 65 years of age, in 2050, will be 30 percent of us, eloquently show that caring for the elderly must become a priority for our society. In recent years a number of studies, pilot projects and discussions have been carried out on the subject of the Long-term Care Act. We have also witnessed the transfer of the work of competence to the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities to the Ministry of Health, all with a view to progress in this area. We are aware that such important systemic arrangements need to be approached professionally, with the greatest degree of responsibility and with the participation of a number of stakeholders. However, at this point we can say that we are hunting the last car to ensure, by means of appropriate legal solutions, a long-term sustainable system that will complement health and the social aspect of the care and assistance of the elderly and which will help us all to grow old, both now and in 50 years. Many voluntary and humanitarian projects, as well as the programme of the Association of Pensioners of Slovenia – Older for Older Persons, have played an important role with their volunteers in recent times. There are many older ones who want to stay as long as possible in the home environment. But even if the desire to help others is so strong, an invisible force can appear that restricts them. This was witnessed in the first wave of the covida-19 epidemic, when many volunteers, including older volunteers, had to limit daily visits to the most urgent ones. But we know how much it means to talk at times, let alone to help us in our daily activities and care. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, What is the envisaged time frame for the adoption of the Long-Term Care Act, which you have been preparing at the Ministry of Health in the past period with all seriousness? Will the law promote measures so that older ones can spend as long as possible in the home environment; and what do you see as the most important? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u262	Thank you, President. Thank you, too, Mr Yuri Lepo, for the question. The law on long - term care is certainly one of the ones we have missed most for many years, and we have been talking about them for perhaps 15 or 20 years, so that we have to somehow get them to life. Since 2017, this law has been under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and we have also tried to find solutions for substantive solutions and also others regarding the method of financing, as we are aware that even today in the existing system, more and more people with great difficulty are allowed to stay at home in view of low pensions and high costs in homes. We have also tried to include in this law a number of experiences that we have gained during the epidemic, as infections in homes for older people are also a problem, not just covid infections, but many get sick every year and can also die because of the common flu, and other infections are a problem in homes. The law, of course, is complex, is extensive and ready at this time to the extent that you are likely to be familiar with substantive solutions within the coalition this week, and then a two-month public hearing is envisaged. We're going through a lot of questions. One member of the long-term care system is the definition of beneficiaries. Then it is also an assessment of eligibility. A single evaluation tool has been developed, which has also been tested in pilot projects, and then distributed to five categories – from 1, at least, to 5, the most demanding; and in view of what belongs to them under the long-term care law. The fact is that we have a relatively large number of beds in Slovenia, above the average of Europe, while home care was largely lacking. And that's why we did this in a different way and made it possible in this new law that a person at home could also access health care, that is, preparation of medicines, giving, feeding on probes, feeding people with eating disorders and so on. Real health care and self-sustainment services are said to be daily tasks, with the help of physiotherapy, working therapy, including already social workers. And we believe that in this way, many who are now on lists waiting for institutional care will be able to spend longer at home and receive these additional services, without which they can no longer live within their home. Certain changes are also in the case of formal care in institutions, in any case improved funding in view of poor accessibility in the current system. In addition, we have shared and highlighted the part of the provision, which is one long-term care on its own, primarily intended for smaller units; the other is larger institutions, which will also have long-term care, is said to be a kind of nursing hospital, although this is not the right term. In particular, it means more health personnel, more possibilities for rehabilitation, even before returning to its basic unit. It would make sense that this would have as many homes as possible, since these homes actually represent a second home for older people, since there is a much greater stress for older people if we have to settle them in another place for months in a completely different place. That is why we try to bring these homes closer to the needs of the elderly. We divided the funding from 100% of public funding and then some other calculations, where an agreement will be needed.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u263	Thank you very much. My friend Nice, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u264	Thank you. I'll ask you a further question so you can finish your thought. Nevertheless, as a further substantiation, I would say that, in view of my experience in local life, I can say that the elderly in the vast majority do not want to survive the fall of life in nursing homes. Other options are: help at home, day care centres, various activities for the elderly in association with the younger generation and so on. I would like your opinion and your view on this subject, assuming that the country is certainly unable to provide or set up enough homes for the elderly. You said in June that we in Europe have an average number of beds, but yet through the standards we introduced years ago, we have clearly automatically lost the number of possible settings because now there are single rooms or double rooms, sometimes there were four people in the rooms. From this point of view, I wonder: What is your view of a long-term solution to these problems, knowing that they will always be and will always be able to do more to solve them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u266	Yes, in any case, in the long term and also in the light of the trends ahead of us – there is a real increase in the number of older people at least by 2060, Slovenia is more exposed here – it is reasonable to look for all solutions and ways of helping to stay the older person as long as possible at home. That is why we are introducing in a new way, which so far has not been done, medical care, the assistance of patronage nurses and the services already mentioned for maintaining independence, is said to be daily tasks. In part, they have already received assistance from social services in the existing way. I think that what we're adding, we're providing additional options, we're also providing e-care, this is monitoring in particular some disease situations or in the first instance of injuries, falls that are common in older people, and, of course, adequate reporting to these centres; and if it is possible to include them in funding, also adaptation, which means adaptation of dwellings for those who could be at home, for example, a wider door, lift, adaptations to the bathroom, and so on. However, additional resources will have to be provided for this. We have considered that some of these could be allocated to the existing generation even if the law was adopted under the Demographic Fund Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Collegiate Lidija Divac Mirnik will ask the Minister of Environment and Space mags a question. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u268	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! The right to life in a healthy and clean living environment and the duty to care for it are principles which are incorporated into international law and also into the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides in its 72nd Article that everyone has the right to a healthy living environment in accordance with the law. The European Union’s environmental policy, however, is based on the principle that any environmental damage caused by the burdensome cause also pays. A typical example of how Slovenia violates the fundamental right to life in a healthy and clean environment is felt on its skin by residents of Dogoš, in the outskirts of the Municipality of Maribor. To list the facts; for the first time, in 2004, in the immediate vicinity of many residential houses, the Municipality of Maribor, under the pretext of temporary disposal, began to deposit 800-ton bales in which municipal waste was wrapped in plastic, placed in pyramids, covered with sheets and even sprayed with so-called cologne water, so that the surrounding inhabitants would not suffer too much from the smell caused by rotting in a foil of wrapped garbage. After three years, of course, they were not taken away, but they were thrown into the ground and left in front of the inhabitants. What that means for groundwater, I probably don't have to talk. Secondly, already in 2003 the Municipality of Maribor built a central cleaning plant there, which annually offers 12,000 tonnes of waste mud, which we all know about in Slovenia. She's not saved today, but that's not all. Thirdly, a small area with about 750 citizens has the biggest problem with the location of the former gramostrosnica in the size of 17 hectares. On the surface of six hectares there is an open landfill of municipal waste, which since 2003 has been leased to tenants of Gokop, d.o.o., which was excavated there until 2013; but 2013 has passed the concession contract for the exploitation of grammose and thus has been extinguished by mining rights for exploitation. The tenant should also, with the expiry of the concession contract, remedy this degraded area, which he has not done to date; on the contrary. Fourthly, without legal basis and without permission there, from 2013 to today, on land owned by the Municipality of Maribor, Maribor has deposited and buried, say and write, more than a million cubic metres of unprocessed, mostly construction and other waste. And here comes a new problem for this place. According to media reports, 18 000 700 tonnes of heavily polluted land from the area of Cincarna, for which waste has also been found by the European Commission to contain severely exceeded limits and critical values of many heavy metals, and, of course, the Republic of Slovenia has ordered it to recover. Mr. Minister, that's why I'm asking you: When and how will you put in place appropriate procedures against those responsible in the Inspectorate for leaving the official duty? When and in what way will you carry out the procedures for the rehabilitation of Dogoš in the Municipality of Maribor with regard to the lands brought from Celje? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Since the Minister is absent, I ask whether you want a written or oral answer to the next meeting? An oral response. Thank you very much. The next one has the word Aljaž Kovacič, who will question the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec Lipicer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u270	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! We recently voted a new holiday in the National Assembly – the day of Slovenian sport. I already warned in my debate that, in principle, this holiday will not help to improve the situation of Slovenian sport. The National Programme of Sport in the Republic of Slovenia states that sport is an important activity of society, an expression of its dynamics and part of a general culture that enriches the quality of life of each individual. The country is expected to promote the development of sport through the financial fabric and through professional education. For many years, experts have pointed out that this country's financial assistance is very low, or very low, in terms of demand, which Slovenia's sport should also receive in terms of global success and also at the amateur level. Above all, this is a lack of money in sports programmes and also in infrastructure, if we are talking about building some new sport infrastructure or, on the other hand, some restoration of sport infrastructure. After this crisis, the situation of Slovenian sport will be even more difficult. We also know that many sponsors have invested in sport, now companies will have smaller profits and will cut where they are most easily, and this also includes sponsorship aid to various companies. Other countries have invested a lot of money in sport in this covida-19 crisis. Austria has announced an additional 100 million for sport, as well as Switzerland, while Croatia has earmarked some more than 5 million euros. At first, I want to know: Why did you not include absolutely no aid in sport in any of the PKPs? If I am not mistaken, you have included in article 65 of the PKP3 the values for sports events. Experts say it is supposed to be a deficit that has already occurred to Slovenian sport, some 30 to 40 million euros. Why did you miss such an important Slovenian discipline as sport itself? We know that sport is not only about athletes dealing with it, but also about promoting the country on a global scale, but also about the movement of young people and in fact all populations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Kovačič. Yes, sport is an important social activity in our country, not only because it makes us a nation more proud of the achievements of our top athletes in world competitions, but also because it represents a healthy lifestyle, a beautiful and good way to spend free time, it is also a kind of good guide to our children's lives, including their discipline, their attitude towards others. Sport is an integral element of every healthy society, which means that it also allows generations to connect together, that new arrivals and vulnerable groups are also more easily found and recognized through sport. In this sense, you are right to say that the country must also be the one who has to care for the aid of sport to promote sport. However, this is much more than what we usually monitor through television screens and through the media, focusing on the ultimate sport. Supreme sport is an important part, but it is not the only part; and that part, which is unfortunately due to, say, the global development of the situation has become, in the first place, one major entrepreneurial activity, already almost an economic activity rather than anything else. If we touch on the finances themselves, you will see what this relationship is all the time at the level of sport, as far as financial means are concerned. A little less than 20% of all financial outflows for the sport field come from so-called public finances, of which about 3% go directly from the state budget and 13% from the local community budget and then 1.5% from the so-called lottery money. Everything else, that's about 83% of all the money that's devoted to sport comes from so-called private resources. Of this, let's say 20% in the form of support provided by companies and all the rest directly through payments that we as individuals make either for sports services or for sports equipment. And as it is said, this is the state of the situation, and in these circumstances we are actually working. Maybe more information to see what a big story sport is. We have about 200,000 members of different sports clubs in our country, 10,000 200 different sports clubs and almost 100 different national sports federations. And now to the covid question – What have we done with the three antikoronic laws? Yes, we have absolutely included sports in them, not by name directly, but in the form of all of these support that can be obtained by self-employed or employees through other forms that covid somehow bypassed, as assistance at a time when they were unable to operate. In this respect, a number of money was paid in the field of sports. That's part of it. The second part is related to so-called sports values. We have already paid the existing costs to the public agency Planica and sport has been activated as one of the first social activities that has gradually been able to return to post-Korona activity and life, under, of course, special conditions that we must all respect together in the field of hygiene and safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u274	Thank you, Chairman. I agree with you when you said they were self-employed, but the fact is that we have many of these semi-professional clubs that act as societies; and they have not actually been included in these PKPs. Since sports associations have expressed some dissatisfaction with taking more time with regard to the annual sport programme in 2020, at the same time you have not taken into account some new forms that have come with this covid, I am also interested in: What's your reality assessment? How will you ensure this realization as these activities have not been carried out? Here I have in mind the area of prizes for athletes, post-graduate activities, then top sports, sports for disabled people, sports for older people, sports recreation and the status of the rights of athletes. How are you going to make this happen? How will you support sports organisations that will not be able to organise and implement many activities and projects because they have not acquired funds to credit events, especially because of non-commitment contracts with your ministry?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u276	Thank you very much. The call for an annual sport programme for 2020 was officially published on the last day of the former government and, as such, went into activation and we have not changed it at all in our government. It is true, however, that because of this so-called coronation, certain conditions could not be met because certain competitions and activities had not been carried out. And let me say we're 9. 6. opened all the applications that came to the public tender for the annual sports programme, so that I signed the decisions in the previous week. 90 decisions were forwarded at the end of the week to the addressees. This is about co-financing or funding of 306 different programmes. All of this is somehow comparable to the annual sports programmes of the past years; it is true that because of the coronation, some of the originally planned money remained. It's 400-500 thousand euros. On the basis of a special rule, which we have also adopted or signed because of these circumstances, we will give all those who will meet the conditions for re-enlisting and then this money to be distributed in a fair manner. In this sense, indeed, given the current state of the situation, we are trying to come as opposed as possible to all those who will demonstrate the need and also to the programmes that will receive this state money. Perhaps only a brief response to your initial comment, related to co-ordination and to the functioning of societies. At the time of the co-vide, no one worked, nor did the usual operating costs. However, what applied to employees in societies was then covered by this PKP legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u278	Thank you again for your word, chairman. In these societies there are forms of employment, in quotations, if I may say so, very different – from student work to some business contracts or all different ones. And that's why the vast majority of them were released. Due to all the information you have given, I have also noticed somewhere that the sports industry in Slovenia employs about 22,000 Slovenians and contributes to the gross domestic product of EUR 600 million per year, my proposal is to hold a discussion on the Minister's response at one of the following meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 14 July 2020, in the framework of the votes. Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for John the Bricker King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u280	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Since the beginning of the crisis, students and students have always warned us about anti-Korona packages, in which they were unfortunately somehow pushed aside or addressed only partially by this aid package. I want to expose their social distress, in which there are already or will be additionally suppressed students, students and students' families. These students are essentially dependent on student work to study so that they can survive so that they can find a place to live. Many of these students also support their parents or even their families at home. I myself know quite a few such students; I would also like to draw attention to one very interesting fact about how important student work is to all these students. The student work of students and students is provided almost three times by the state through scholarships. Now I'm going to do a little more of this. In 2018, the country distributed 15,000 429 scholarships, which for the most part amounted to EUR 125. In the same year, there were about 100,000 students and their average monthly net income was €185. In the second half of March – we all know why – the covid-19 covid virus caused the disease to fall by half. Although the entire student labour market is now growing slowly, but it also fell again by about 40% in May, by about 30%, slowly back. Now I'm interested in the following: What measures do you intend to take to help the social distress of students who are living with their student work? Government single-aid measures in the amount of one average scholarship to all these students who are dependent on student work have not reduced or facilitated their social difficulties much; this will obviously have to be addressed over a longer period, as many student services are in the sectors most affected, that is, tourism and hospitality. Are you thinking about lowering the criteria for obtaining a scholarship or raising the lowest scholarships, which would at least ease the hardship a little? Perhaps it would be a little better if we raised funds when the criteria were lowered. And the third question is: one option is to increase the funding to co-finance student residence, especially for those who are forced to seek accommodation in a market offering where prices are significantly higher and are not reached by private subsidies. Of course, the measure must be taken to ensure that there is no further increase in rents, as we have seen in the free economic initiative on tourist vouchers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u282	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, honourable Member of Korazi, for this issue, which concerns a very important group of citizens. Young people in general, not only students, but young people in general are given special attention at the Ministry of Labour. I am very well aware of what you have raised in the question, because I have been through my own study time and have previously improved my social, financial position with my student work in high school. You can believe that I've experienced a great deal of what you yourself have pointed out. I understand, however, that the epidemic has created even greater uncertainty and fear of the future for a student, so we are doing everything in our power to make the situation a little easier. Through the staff of the Ministry of Labour team, we are constantly in contact with youth representatives, which we intend to continue in the future. The answer to your specific question is much more complex than it seems at first sight. Young people are crucial to our society. To enable them to deploy their sails as easily as possible and to sail into a successful adult life, we allow them to be treated in an integrated manner, which consists of the areas of scholarships, active employment policy measures and social assistance. At present, the range of measures our ministry offers to students is very large. The first measure or possibility is that a student may also be entered in the employment prospector's register at the Employment Service and thus obtain information on the labour market, employment and assistance in the search for employment. This gives them the status of a job seeker and can also be included in life-long career orientation measures, especially in information on the labour market and career management. Employment seekers can also be included in the various training and education measures set out in the catalogue of active employment policy measures. The next possibility is for children over 18 years of age with student status up to the age of 26 to be taken into account when granting an allowance for a large family to one of the parents, resulting in additional family benefits. Also, one of the parents for children over 18 years of age with student status, up to 26 years old, is entitled to an allowance for the care of the child if the child needs special care and protection. The student may apply the payment or subsidy of food, subsidised transport, subsidised residence and various scholarships. If the family alone or within the family does not have enough resources to survive, it may also apply to the social work centre for financial social assistance, including exceptional financial social assistance. If a student lives in a tenant's apartment, he can apply for a rent subsidy; if a student has a family, he can apply a child's allowance, students and students who become parents are entitled to up to EUR 258 a month after the birth of a child, this parental allowance will be with 1. 1. 2021 raised to the level of the basic amount of minimum income 402 euros, which will undoubtedly help improve the material situation of student families. Students who have the status of a disabled person may be included in the Independent Life Programme of students with disabilities, a residential community. For this programme we co-financed an employee of professional work, the programme provides support to students with disabilities in the self-reliance and organisation of independent and equal life. Four users are included in this programme this year. Of course, one of the possibilities for strengthening the material situation of students is also student work, as you yourself have pointed out. It is intended to gain work experience, to earn extra money to students and students and to cover the extraordinary needs of work by employers; and thus not to provide basic economic and social security for students, nor to replace the regular needs of employers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u284	The Honourable Minister. I have to admit, I've been very appreciative of him since he was a professional associate, because I know he's trying. The point is that, as far as I'm concerned, I've been informed that students staying with privates have not been granted all state aid or even received any information if I've just received the data. Even in students who lived in student homes, some stories were received about subsidies or some were not received. You can tell me firsthand, or you can fix me if I'm wrong. It is also true that certain students have also turned to me and have also proposed that all those who received regular incomes from students and students in the previous year would also be entitled to a compensation of 80% of the average revenue received for the period when they cannot receive the student work. We have also proposed such a proposal several times as an amendment in our parliamentary group, as this would actually help students. What do you think of this proposal, or 80 percent? In the beginning, however, you raised the problem very well. Instead of studying students; we know that the situation is really complicated and complex, but here we need to be very careful not to become strictly job seekers, but to be able to continue studying what they want or need to study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u286	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, distinguished Member of Korazi. Regarding the two problems that you have raised or mentioned; if I understand correctly, you have mentioned that not everyone should receive the crown of a single solidarity allowance for students. Although I could verify this, the receipt of this unique solidarity allowance was linked to the student status. Since the measures have been put in place so that we can help as easily as possible and as quickly as possible, I think we should all be received; nor has this information come to us so far that no one gets it. With regard to the receipt of the rent subsidy, I propose that those who may have turned to you may not have received it to turn to the payer or the deciding party in accordance with the procedure and initiate the appeal procedure. I think this will be most effective. With regard to what you have pointed out about student work, of course, we can assume that the impact on student work at the annual level due to the crown epidemic will be smaller than in the last economic crisis, since, once the government has sufficiently gradually removed the restrictions in the economy, we can expect greater and faster growth in student work, perhaps even faster than growth in employment. In terms of effects, we must not ignore the liquidity of measures aimed at the economy, which are crucial to raising the need for student work. Perhaps I will mention what is good for students, in the area of scholarship, in the third anti-korona package, we have allowed students to rest their scholarships if they do not make progress in this year's study year or complete their education programme; we have also made it possible to adjust their obligations under the title of their scholarships both for the benefit of the grantors and employers. We have also made it possible to extend the agreements already concluded on the postponement of the refund or the periodic refund of the grant for one year if the scholarshipe could not recover the agreed amount due to the epidemic. I estimate that with this comprehensive set of measures, with all measures, including a single solidarity allowance for vulnerable groups, we can now provide basic security and offer a hand to students and all young people to continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u288	Your Honor, thank you for your word. To clear up the matter earlier, because I think the Minister misunderstood, I was talking about subsidies for those students who were staying with the privates and then applied for state aid. It's about living things, about housing things, because they've been dealing with a housing problem. However, I would like to say in the end, because you have also said it nicely or pointed out that this generation of students and students, who are now regretting this time of the Coronavirus or covida-19 epidemic, will also bear much of the responsibility for the future. It will essentially be a generation that will then have to take concrete care of the future and also make a lot of changes, for the better, of course. Personally, I think that when it comes to students and students, they come to the National Assembly, and that's what they tell us. I think that many also agree with this, because it is simply time for this national assembly to become a national assembly; and not just some 90 politicians. I think we'll all have to be more aware of that. When we talk about young people when we talk about students and students, I think it is essential that we invite them once to a concrete round table or to some debate to trust us with the problems, the difficulties, the problems that have arisen at all at this time. I think that, unfortunately, this epidemic has also opened up some wounds or some uncertainties, but I think that we Slovenians are able to fight this concretely and move forward into a better future, because in my opinion we have very intelligent and viewed students and students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 14 July 2020, in the framework of the votes. Nik Prebil will ask the Minister without a department responsible for development and European cohesion policy, Zvonku Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u290	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, distinguished minister! My question relates to European cohesion policy and its development by co-vid or co-vid; somehow, on a topic that is difficult to understand for a citizen who does not accompany matters, but I hope that we will clarify these things. About two months ago, at the press conference, you explained that you would provide a basis for the reallocation of 280 million European funds, as the European Commission gave the possibility of so-called flexicurity from the Structural Funds due to the covida19 pandemic crisis. However, this option has been given by the European Commission until 30 June 2021, and I assume that Slovenia will still have to meet those obligations from achieving the common objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy, or those other thematic objectives defined in the Operational Programme of Slovenia. Since there are already enough problems and shortcomings in the process of drawing on European cohesion funds, and you have now seen this in view of the previous meeting we had on the Committee on European Union Affairs, and since this financial perspective is also slowly ending, I ask you, Minister-respected: In preparing the legal basis for any reallocation of funds from the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund, will you take into account the above-mentioned allocation to the East and West, the allocation by fund and so on, so that we can achieve these indicators? Is this redeployment even real now? We both know that we have a problem of underutilising funds in the eastern cohesion region, where a certain proportion is always unreachable and then we are in a hurry. In view of this proposal by the European Commission this is now possible, money can be moved from the fund to the fund, from the region to the region, but only up to 30. 6. This will be taken into account once again during this one-year drawdown. I also want to know: How are you going to solve the potential problem if, after the end of this flexible draw, we have to provide these indicators, and let's say the money in the West would be even more so, because then this problem will become even bigger than it is now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u292	Thank you so much for asking. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues and to all Members and Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly! As you have found, after the pandemic or epidemic was declared on 12 March, European bureaucracy reacted relatively quickly in the field of European cohesion policy. In some areas, as we have seen, unfortunately not; but here the response was very fast, it was possible to redistribute funds on the basis of amendments to the regulations in March and April, and in April an additional possible intervention also on the cohesion fund funds, which Slovenia has not decided on because of the importance of these funds in other areas. The reallocations that we have foreseen in the context of the amendment to the operational programme, which was approved on 30 April this year, are exclusively in the field of the European Social Fund and the European Regional Development Fund. And the other premise that we have taken into account in this regard has not affected any of the areas where operations or projects so far would be at risk. Under these funds, we have foreseen, as you mentioned, EUR 270 million, 280 million of redeployments, for 9 priority actions of individual ministries – EUR 143 million and for 5 actions of individual ministries, the remainder that can be used in the following year. As you know, the amendment of the Regulations also made it possible to use expenditure on eligible costs associated with the epidemic from 1 February this year. In one part, these funds will also be earmarked for this purpose. Slovenia will be obliged to fulfil all other commitments, as well as all other thematic objectives, but of course there are problems in the implementation of individual operations. Last time I met the European Union Affairs Committee, when the report for the first quarter of this year was discussed, I said, for example, one example from the Agreement for the Development of Regions, where 62 projects, 16 pipelines and 46 sewerages, if I simplify; up to 31. 3. No project has been approved. These projects are worth more than €250 million. This backlog is now slowly being eliminated, but since it is a huge number of difficult projects and since there have been some formal complications in the administration of these activities at the beginning of this year, I am counting on this backlog to be made up by the end of September. This is also the time frame set for us to review the reality of everything in the field of individual operations for the period 2014-2020, in particular in the area of environment and space and infrastructure. By the time this review is to be carried out, an evaluation will also be made, which of these projects will not be possible in this perspective, and from the residues will be possible to implement all those who are ready to implement or to supplement certain projects that are already under way need additional resources for successful completion. Yes, they are assured and will be all legal bases in the future. For reallocation, they are already, including for use, not only existing funds, but also the envisaged addition under the project, which is expected to amount to around €350 million and will be linked to the implementation of the existing financial perspective. This is also why we are planning a more operational approach in the coming weeks and months in the implementation itself and in the preparation of the set of operations. As we see, there will also be a need to amend the regulation, particularly in the area of spatial and building legislation, with a view to bringing these projects to a successful conclusion by the end of 2023 and some by the end of 2022.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u293	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Prebil, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u294	Thank you very much, Vice President. Minister, thank you very much for these answers, but you haven't answered my rather explicit question. You've given us some information we both know. We know that Eastern Slovenia – 1.26 billion and Western Slovenia – 847 million, if we are looking at the ERDF and the ESF here; then 1,055 billion in cohesion across Slovenia. So far, this has been the case, and here the European Commission has been very strict about spending money exclusively on what is envisaged in the operational programme. I have drawn up a clean example of an operational programme for priority axis 2.1 which speaks of international competitiveness of research. Slovenia has always set itself a target of some value, which will have to be achieved by 2023 until this period, namely n+3, so it will have to be achieved by 2023. We must reach these numbers if we are to get this money back from the European Commission. During this one-year period, which is until 30 June 2021, countries can practically do what they want in the context of this more flexible drawing and translate money from one part to another. No matter what you say, my question is still the same: Is Slovenia going to be 30? 6. 2021 still had to provide strictly what is written in the operational programme and the funds that have been earmarked specifically for a particular region? In view of the allocations, will the European Commission finally look through the fingers at the Member States? After all, the whole money from the east could now be drawn to the west if that were the case. That's why I'm asking for an additional explanation here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u296	Yeah, some numbers errors. The European Regional Development Fund provides for the drawing of €416 million from the European Social Fund 718 million from cohesion €914 million. The derogation from the thematic objectives was conditional on co-vid measures and a derogation is possible in this part. There are also considerations that, for the period until the end of 2023, a derogation would be possible in individual parts. However, it is a fact that you have mentioned that problems have arisen on individual axes regardless of the situation of the co-vide, have arisen so far and are likely to occur in the future. In some ways, these transfers make it easier to achieve individual targets on individual axes, where, as you know, some problems have arisen because of the delay in the implementation of this financial perspective, which has not yet been resolved, as you know, since 2016. Yes, as I have said, we will ensure, within a formal framework, that all objectives are met and that we will allow for a derogation due to transfers for co-vid's needs, as set out in the applicable regulations of March and April.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u297	Thank you very much. You have a procedural proposal, Mr Member. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u298	Thank you very much, Minister. Thanks for the extra explanation, too. In some context, you have answered my question, but before I make a procedural proposal, allow me a summary. In my view, European cohesion policy is one of the key packages, in addition to other measures taken by the European Union, where Slovenia can acquire some financial resources and develop in line with the Development Strategy. In view of the financial perspective ahead, the multi-annual financial framework, we will still remain, in a slightly smaller context, most likely within three billion. But what happens after these seven years, after 2027, we don't know yet. However, it can happen in the light of the strong development Western Slovenia has in order to even fall out of this. I believe that European cohesion policy, as well as this more flexible pumping, which, on the one hand, may prove to be a good measure of rapid response, which we certainly need in this epidemic, is crucial that the National Assembly on such subjects, which are of real importance, conducts some in-depth debate and confronts many experts in this area, both at home and abroad. Some good practices may arise and they may be used in the future to better draw on European cohesion policy. For many years, we have seen that certain problems have arisen, which so far many ministers have not been able to resolve. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Madam Vice-President, I propose that the National Assembly vote on a possible broader debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u299	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. Now we continue with the questions. Mr Branko Simonovic will ask the Minister for Finance mags a question. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u300	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Dear Minister, in accordance with the Income Act, natural persons are taxed at a rate of 27,5 % in the case of renting of immovable property, bearing in mind that the tax base under Article 77 of the Income Act is reduced by a standardised cost of 15% of the income achieved by the provision of rental assets. Thus, 15% is standardised costs and a 27.5% tax is paid on 85% of income. On the other hand, the Income Act also allows all those engaged in the asset lending activity, i.e. in the pursuit of housing activities, to be recognised as having a standard cost of 80% of income, namely Article 59 of the Income Act, and the difference of 20% of income is taxed at a rate of 20%, i.e. Article 135 of the Income Act. I understand that the tax rate for independent entrepreneurs may be lower, as they are still paying social security contributions, and there is an incomprehensible difference in the recognition of standardised costs, ranging from 15 to 80 %. For that reason, Mr. Minister, I ask: How and when will you more equalize the recognition of standardised costs and the taxation of rental income on the basis of the Income Act and allow greater promotion of long-term renting of real estate? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u302	Thank you so much for saying that and thank you so much for asking. It is true, honourable Member, that the differences in the taxation of real estate are relatively large, and it is true that, as you have stated, a natural person may issue a real estate on this basis to take into account the 27.5% rate. This rate entered into force this year, which means that these amendments were made in 2019. These changes took place in 2019. It is true that, in Article 77 of this Law, the standard costs increased from 10 per cent to 15 per cent. It is also true that paralegals, those who are actually registered, have the opportunity to recognise standard expenditure of 80% of income and to maintain certain simple records. And it is true that it is also possible for someone to rent the property as an independent entrepreneur; and if he does it as an independent entrepreneur, in this case the actual costs can also be recognised. Rather, these actual expenditure shall also be recognised if it maintains certain records as a stand-alone entrepreneur. The difference is that when an independent entrepreneur settles his income, this income goes back to the annual base, so that goes into the progressive tax scale. In the case of a single entrepreneur, this scale, this 80% tax is not definitive or this 80% tax is not definitive, but then this progressive scale is likely to increase this taxation in some. Certainly, as you said, these differences are disproportionate, these changes have been taking place since 2013, once such expenditure has been taxed cedularly, once they have been taxed only by the final tax, once they have been taxed synthetically, which means that the income advance was paid first, and then these revenues were included in the annual tax base and taxed on the progressive scale. In accordance with the Coalition Treaty and also due to major differences in the Ministry of Finance, we are forming a working group that will actually analyse the entire tax system, including the revenues that natural persons derive from renting. Here we will also do an analysis compared to legal persons, it is said that some part of the property is leased. We will do this analysis and, in accordance with the Coalition Treaty, we are also obliged to present solutions for the entire tax system and, of course, for the whole income and also for these types of income of natural persons. In other words, this government will analyse the entire tax system and propose solutions to be submitted in the form of legislative proposals to the National Assembly. This working group will be operational as soon as possible, it is now being formed, I think it will start work and submit such analyses within a few months.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u304	Thank you very much for your answers, Mr. Secretary. I expect that's what's going to happen. I want to know: What is your opinion if, for natural persons, such standard costs were, for example, equivalent as for independent entrepreneurs and others, 80 %? How would this affect tenants in the long-term rental of real estate, says families, students, because there is a huge shortage of it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u306	Thank you very much for the additional question. However, as these standardised expenditure increases, of course, the taxation itself decreases. These revenues must be in proportion to the taxation of other incomes, which is the first rule in my personal opinion. Secondly, I think that in this case the number of rents would increase, at least from a tax point of view, this could certainly happen if recognised standard expenditure were increased. On the other hand, it is also necessary to see how the other revenues of natural persons are taxed, so they must be in some proportion. Here is my personal opinion that it is much better to stimulate rents by providing certain people, such as students, with money in the form of scholarships, so that they can rent a room so that they can rent a smaller apartment when they are at a study in Ljubljana. From this point of view, I do not think that we can do everything with the tax system or very much to do more with the subsidy to the student in order to provide them with an appropriate price of housing or accommodation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u307	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. The first is Mr Jože Lenart, who will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandri Pivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u308	Thank you very much, colleague. The forest is a natural raw material that can be fertilized well by processing. That's probably what we both agree with, Your Honor. Let's get to the question. In 2012 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted an Action Plan to increase the competitiveness of the forest and forest chain in Slovenia by 2020; with the promotional slogan Les is beautiful. The Action Plan is an operational document to increase the competitiveness of the entire forest and forest value chain and defines wood as the strategic raw material of Slovenia. Slovenia is the third most forested country in the European Union for Finland and Sweden, with an annual growth of more than 8 million cubic metres of wood – renewable raw materials. Due to the low competitiveness of the forest and forest sector, we do not make sufficient use of the forest and forestry chain of Slovenian wood. We export Slovenian timber, but at the same time the domestic wood processing industry has not yet come to life as we would like. Dear Minister, the period of the Action Plan is ending this year and it is right to put the results of the key objectives achieved on the table. That's why I want to know: How did we develop the market for wood products and services? Have we increased logging during this period, and what have we done in the area of forest management in line with forest management plans? In particular, I am interested in increasing wood processing at higher levels of complexity with new technologies: Have we managed to create new jobs? What is the increase in the added value to the employee in the wood processing sector, of course separate for forestry and wood industry? I am also interested in the participation of your Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food with the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Above all, there are further projects of the Slovenian State Forests, which manages state forests and exports to create quite good profits. For years we have been talking about three or four wood centres in Slovenia that would allow wood to be converted into higher technology. However, there are still no results with higher added value. Who's stopping it? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u310	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Member, the distinguished others are present! The forest and forest chain in Slovenia truly connects the system of sustainable, multi-purpose and co-natural management and management of forests, then further through the processing of wood, the design, production of products with higher added value and also the sale of timber products. Under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, this segment is only the first part of this forest and forest chain, which means that the first part falls on our territory, i.e. the area of multi-purpose forest management and to the first stage of processing. The further wood processing chain falls under the auspices of the Ministry of Economy. In the area of the forest and forest chain, we are responsible for the management of forest policy, including part of the issue, and for the processing of wood as a renewable energy source and pre-industrial use. It is true that in 2012 the Action Plan was adopted to increase the competitiveness of the forest and forest chain, which expires this year. Of course, it is necessary to approach the preparation of a new one, and an analysis of what has been done in this regard is also being prepared. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has an extremely good management of forests, and we are also, in this respect, one of the countries by which many other countries also take this pattern of forest management, which is uniform, which is inclusive, involving all stakeholders; and it also directs this management towards a sustainable direction, which means that it is truly carefully planned, does not allow for any holosecs and interventions other than professionally prescribed ones. In this respect, we also regularly take care of forestry works and forest restoration after various natural captures, as well as opposite forest restoration. For this part, we provide support to some €51 million over the financial perspective period through rural development programmes and, in addition, through calls to promote non-agricultural activities on farms, about €15 million. So far, these 51 million have also been exhausted and invested in various reforestation works and, as it is said, processing up to the first stage, purchasing equipment for this processing — 31.6 million euros. This year we will publish another 19 million euros of different tenders. As regards the issue relating to the establishment of timber processing centres, which were planned in the framework of the SIDG strategic plan. Following the preparation of the strategic plan, which includes these four centres in various regions of Slovenia – namely, Kočevska, Notranjska, Styria and Koroška – this plan was stopped in interdepartmental treatment, as the Ministry of Finance required the verification of the profitability of these planned centres. It has been shown that some relatively acceptable profitability can be guaranteed only in one wood processing centre, namely in the center of Sneznik in Kočevska. That is why this strategic plan has been stopped and returned to preparation. Now, if part of the question was also addressed to the Minister of Economy, we would, of course, hear that there were several calls on this part of the economy that allowed for investment in that final part, that is to say, the conversion of wood into high-quality products; unfortunately, we do not have enough facilities on that side to allow most of the wood or at least a larger share of the wood to be consumed or channelled into the domestic industry at this time. We certainly have a lot of work ahead of us in this second segment, i.e. investment in the processing industry, for products of higher added value, which is not within our competence.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u312	I'd like to address the second part of the question. Little of the practice, respected minister, in 2019 the Municipality of Thinking built a new gym, which was built in 70% of wood raw materials. Acquisitions in Slovenia and abroad have raised a lot of attention, and most of the wood materials were imported from Austria – wood construction, glues. Isn't that sad? We are the third most forested country in Europe, and we still do not know how to exploit these domestic strategic raw materials. We are becoming suppliers of components for developed countries, but we do not know how to make use of our own resources, which allow for final products and thus added value, as well as a wealth of capital that would remain at home. In a much larger proportion, we used this raw material during the period between World War II and independence, when the Slovenian timber industry was a parade for the former Yugoslav market. My last question was whether you're thinking about a new action plan, which you've already answered. I see this matter only along with the Ministry of Economy, eight years have passed, and believe me, I am following, also coming from the wood industry, from forestry; it could be much more done. I would ask you even more specifically to do more in practice, as I have put it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u314	Thank you very much. I agree with you that too little wood is included in various forms of construction in Slovenia, depending on the accessibility and raw material we have in Slovenia. Therefore, our proposal was also to introduce in the Green Public Procurement Regulation a higher mandatory share of wood used for various construction works. I am still convinced that the room for improvement is also in this first part of the forest and forest chain, where management, forest management can also be repaired. In fact, the only thing that makes this difficult is an extremely large number of forest owners, in Slovenia this number is about 400 000. In this segment there is certainly also a possibility of different improvements in management, but certainly a large part of us are in this final work, i.e. the creation of the processing industry, and then, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy, we need to encourage such investments. If we do not have this absorption ability in Slovenia to process this wood at home, then the only option that remains is to export this wood; and certainly this is not a good solution. As for the management of this work, you asked whether the section was increasing, whether this part of the chain was in some kind of improvement. I can ensure that Slovenian National Forests in this area are increasingly managed more and more effectively by forests, and forests are being rehabilitated more quickly. But I'm sorry I have to say it again and again, but we're running out of time on this final job. I think that even now, once we have done an analysis of the action plan, we will find that, above all, the area of adding greater added value to the wood produced at home is weak and that this use may also be greater in the field of the use of these materials in various construction works. When we finish this analysis and approach the new plan, I will, of course, share with you all this data that the analysis has shown.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Would you like a word in favour of a procedural proposal for the State Assembly to hold a discussion on the answer at its next meeting? Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u316	Thank you very much, Minister, for the specific answers, but they still need to have an epilogue. I am sure that thousands of jobs, as we once knew them, can be associated with the forest and forest chains. For this reason, I believe that this content, this part deserves a broader discussion at one of the meetings of the National Assembly. However, if this vote is not voted on, you can be sure that I will make an effort and in the List of Marjan Šarc we will make a request for a meeting on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u317	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 14 July 2020, in the framework of the votes. Sieter will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for John the Bricker King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u318	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, hello; colleagues and colleagues, good evening! The times we usually spend more at home are usually periods when we record multiple cases of domestic violence. That's bad news. Domestic violence is also the top of police intervention statistics in normal circumstances; at the time of the epidemic, police observe more cases of intervention when reporting domestic violence than ever. The increased number of cases of domestic violence means, of course, more mental, physical abuse of the weaker, thereby increasing social distress in the victims of violence, which in most cases are women and children. The Institute of Criminology, in its report on crime at the time of the epidemic of late April, places domestic violence in the family during the epidemic among those acts whose numbers have increased. They say: “The active reason for increased violence lies in the fact that families are forced to spend more time together. However, the period of the pandemic and the measures against it pose an increased risk not only due to the time dimension of these contacts, but also, in particular, due to increased stress and irritability on the part of the perpetrators, as well as an increased sense of powerlessness and inability to find an outcome on the part of the victims.” People more at home, in distress, in uncertain situations, uncertainty about the future, the result is more violence against women and children. Therefore, the key task of the policy is to eliminate this mass crisis through the use of some general social measures, by strengthening the network of services, by strengthening the work and infrastructure of institutions that prevent domestic violence, alert or, if this happens, provide protection for victims of domestic violence. My questions are as follows: At the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, do you have accurate data on how many cases of domestic violence occurred at the time of the epidemic compared to the same period last year? In what way do competent institutions offer protection to victims of domestic violence? How did the competent institutions respond to the increased number of cases of domestic violence during the epidemic, as pointed out by the Institute of Criminology and the police themselves? Were and to what extent the competent institutions dealing with domestic violence and providing protection to victims overloaded at the time of the epidemic? If; are the institutions that provide protection to victims of domestic violence sufficiently human, financial and infrastructureally equipped? Are their capacities proportionate to their needs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u319	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u320	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, Mr Siter, for this question. You have highlighted a very important aspect of the coronary crisis or epidemic. As you know, at the outset, in March in public performances, I warned that there is one health epidemic, and the next thing immediately behind it is the social crisis, which is undoubtedly coming. That is why, at the outset, I have put great emphasis also within the Ministry of Labour team in order to respond as quickly as possible to these pressing problems that we were expecting. I remember that I met with NGOs and the Community of Centres for Social Work in the first week, where we talked about where I called them to pay particular attention to these phenomena of violence within the family and to the endangered groups of people, which you listed. Then we strengthened communication with social work centres and I thank the Community's social work centres for the really big work they have done through their crisis centres and other institutions, through which they have also helped many vulnerable groups at the time of the epidemic. At the time of the coronary disease, we also, I think, provided the necessary protective equipment in due time so that these homes and centres could work normally and carry out their mission. When you asked for a number, I do not actually have a specific number here; however, the competent services, including the police, warned me that the reported violence was actually less. That is why it was all the more important, important, that our social work centres and the NGOs involved, monitor the situation more closely and provide support to vulnerable groups. We have identified domestic violence in the instructions for social security operators as an emergency, which is why the social work centre continues to carry out, even through personal visits to the parties, public powers and other tasks where protection of the individual is needed. At that time, a large majority of the activities in terms of personal visits and hearings were discontinued and switched to telephone or electronic treatment; in these matters we have indeed identified these as urgent cases, which are still taking place during the epidemic. While social protection programmes in the field of violence prevention have limited personal contacts with users during the epidemic, all their programmes have been implemented in an adapted manner. This is also what we invited them to do at the Ministry of Labour. User and user advice has been strengthened, and communication with them is now taking place on the phone and the Internet to a greater extent. There is more awareness of domestic violence and communication about where victims can turn in case of domestic violence. The work — not to be overlooked — has also been strengthened by the causes of violence, and this aspect is important. The accommodation programmes — maternity homes, safe houses, housing communities, housing communities, shelters, crisis centres — acted unaltered, but in a consistent manner, taking into account the protection instructions. Victims of violence who need accommodation and who are infected, positive or have signs of covido-19 infection are unfortunately unable to be placed in existing accommodation social security programmes because of the threat to the health of other users, so the Ministry of Labour has established an additional accommodation unit, which is supported by a competent centre for social work.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u322	Thank you very much. In the case of victims of domestic violence, this is a very specific group in all circumstances, not only at the time of the epidemic, which need an immediate and very effective response from the competent authorities, we both agree here. So at the time of the epidemic, this situation is even worse. But we probably also agree, here I add to your claim, either at the time of the epidemic or in fact in all the circumstances of the main violence in the family, we don't even detect or reach the police or the competent institutions that can then protect the victims. The problem here, however, is this social aspect, which, with an uncertain social and economic situation, translates into family distress, even into distress, as you yourself said, the causes which, as the Institute for criminology at the Faculty of Law has determined, are those who trigger or trigger violence to a greater extent due to social distress. And now there is another wave ahead of us, with it speeding again some new wave of self-isolation, quarantine, or measures that could further deepen this tribulation at this address. My question is: How will the competent ministry respond to the potential increased need for interventions in the event of domestic violence? In what way will the competent ministry strengthen mechanisms to protect victims of domestic violence in the event of another wave?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u324	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleague of the Minister, Members and Member of Parliament! Mr Siter, thank you for this supplementary question. Let me say that at the Ministry of Labour we have indeed strengthened our cooperation with the police, and we have aligned with them instructions for investigating domestic violence and procedures to detect infection or symptoms of infection in the victim or the perpetrator of violence. In cooperation with the Communications Office, we have prepared information on contact numbers to advise victims of violence and people in mental distress, one of the simple and, on the other hand, very important measures, since this was the only human contact to many at the time of isolation or territorial closure. The National Institute for Public Health also published contacts with covid-19 on the website of the telephone consultants of the family violence prevention programmes. In preparation for the second wave of coronary disease, we also launched a public call at the Ministry of Labour in June to help the most vulnerable groups, including victims of violence during the covida-19 epidemic and to reduce its consequences, when possible at the threshold of the second wave. The total value of this call is EUR 2 million, more specifically EUR 925 000, and the purpose of the call is to implement psychosocial counselling, awareness-raising, information, field work, provide concrete support to users and users, create new safe points, digital solutions to deal with pressures, and provide accommodation for users and users from vulnerable groups who are in crisis due to the epidemic. In the context of this call for proposals, financial resources are also provided to continue financing a free 24-hour telephone number to assist victims established during the first wave of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u326	Thank you for the answers, Madam Minister; thank you for your word, Chairman. At the end of April, the Institute of Criminology at the Faculty of Law issued its report on crime during the epidemic, saying: “The largest number increase in crime in absolute numbers is thus seen in crimes falling under the chapter protecting marriage, family and children.” Domestic violence at the time of the epidemic, if I translate into a simple language, is more, we talk mostly about the weakest — women and children. This government needs to start specifically protecting the weak. So far, at the time of the epidemic, we saw bank protection, we saw the protection of capital interests over people, over the environment, we saw the protection of the political class, even with robotics and fences; we saw the protection of weak wrinkles. We still have the most unemployed, we still have elderly people in our homes, we still have self-employed people who don't know how they're going to spend the month or summer, what jobs they're going to keep, what's not, we have singles, students, renters and so on. As a result, the increased number of cases of domestic violence is the result of ineffective government social measures in anti-Korona laws. More people at home, more uncertain futures, more pressures, more violence. As a society, no matter how politically defined we are, as a society in general, we must not allow the weakest, who at this time, in addition to all the other pressures that have come against them, to face physical, even psychological violence; and to put all these people aside. It is therefore crucial that, at the time of preparation for the second wave, the government takes care of these weakest ones, for their safety, we are talking mainly about children and women. The more weak, more attention, more security, more solutions, the faster the response of the competent services. The government needs to strengthen these services; it needs to strengthen these institutions; it needs to strengthen these programmes that deal with it; before we fall for a new wave of epidemics, so that this new wave of epidemics will not be a new wave of violence. And if the government does not, for example, intend to open this chapter intensely, or even if it is intended, it makes sense for it to listen to the National Assembly on this subject. Presidents, I therefore propose that we hold a broader debate on this subject at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 14 July 2020, in the framework of the votes. Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Dr. Aleksandri Pivec and the Minister for Environment and Space mag. Andre Visiak, who has been absent since 2.30 p.m. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u328	Yes, because of the absence of Minister Visiak, I ask his oral reply. But now I'm just gonna start with the question. The Minister and I come from the same end of Slovenia, in fact from almost the same city. During the European Capital of Culture in Maribor in 2012, the idea of the first community garden in Slovenia was conceived. This project is developed primarily by voluntary work of people and represents one of the sustainable effects of the European Capital of Culture (EPK), of which Ptuj was also part, which I am very proud of, because we were very efficient and very productive at the time. As for urban gardens and also urban gardens, Ptuj is again one of the leading cities in the direction of urban gardening or urban gardens. Then we have Kidrič and Maribor. Manufacturing is just one of the forms of urban agriculture, and it is not the entanglement of farms in urban environments as a result of the proliferation of urban areas, but rather the intentional integration into the urban environment. In doing so, urban agriculture takes advantage of the city's benefits, while allowing the urban population to make concrete contact with the land and with the legality of growth. The professional public recommends the creation of clear rules and standards for planning and management of urban gardens. I want to know: What has been done so far, since these urban gardens are less mentioned in official documents? Is there anything going on or is he preparing for this area? This is a question for both the Minister and the Minister. Because of these advantages, which go beyond food supply alone, it is important to build on community gardens. Of course, the private is not excluded, but they have completely different socio-economic influences. Thus, these gardens must be accessible to a wider range of users, open to the integration of vulnerable groups, while at the same time mitigating and increasing the resilience of cities to climate change, in particular for heat shocks or for the heating of cities, which have recently been very intense due to climate change. These are two questions if the Minister can now answer me, given that she is not Mr Visionak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u330	Thank you very much, chairman. Thank you for the question, Mr Member. Urban gardens are basically gardens that are regulated within cities, city nuclei, on green areas that are not defined as agricultural areas, so urban gardening as such is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Of course, it certainly covers the content that focuses on food production, which is why the Ministry of Agriculture has the responsibility to do so. We, as the Ministry of Agriculture, are certainly trying or encouraging the largest possible proportion of the population to deal not only with food production, which ensures the food security and self-reliance of the country and its citizens, but also with the self-reliant needs of the family or individuals who are trying to do so. Therefore, we certainly support the idea of urban gardening as well as the possibilities of people living in the city, of producing food for their own needs, of gardening and of promoting food production for their own needs. Because there are also several possibilities for doing so within the framework of various initiatives coming from the local community itself. You have already mentioned that one of these has been carried out within the European Capital of Culture. Let me mention the Leader initiatives, i.e. these initiatives by local action groups, but after the initiatives we have reviewed at the Ministry, as we say, always come from a local level, we have not yet seen any aspirations or aspirations for strategies to include urban gardening. It is true, however, that most of these initiatives by local action groups focus on areas outside the cities. Most of these initiatives are in the rural area itself. As regards space management and the planning of these green areas for the purpose of urban gardening, the Minister of Environment and Space would certainly be the right address; and as for incentives and promotions of gardening as a way of spending time caring for the primary need to provide our own food needs, we are promoting this throughout our competence. In addition, this has come to an even greater extent in the last period of the epidemiological situation, perhaps a somewhat difficult access to food, when we have really actively encouraged the Slovenian population to process its own surfaces as much as possible and thus ensure that they are as dependent on the supply of food that could be made difficult in that situation. Therefore, as much as it is in our power and competence, if the Ministry of the Environment is planning this dedicated use of space in cities, we will jump into that other part. This is also the subject of all our strategic and developmental policies, in order to encourage as much as possible our own food production in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u332	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam Minister has now said very well, all possible options for increasing food supply will have to be sought; and one of these could also be urban gardens. I don't know if you've been familiar with this, but I'm personally on the 23rd. 6. give a written initiative on the establishment of a national food company. If you haven't got it yet, look at the question, because it's this way. As a person interested in sustainable issues, including kindergartens and urban gardens, I would also like to help or, if possible, participate in certain initiatives or projects. In this respect, I think it will be necessary to make a concrete roll of sleeves in this respect, as regards food supply or adequacy. I think that Slovenia has quite a potential, but it is true that it will also have to be smart if we are to preserve these green areas that we have because we cannot have everything to produce food. But I will wait until next time for Mr Visionak's answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u333	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete your reply, if you wish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u334	Thank you very much. Maybe just for a little while. I have already been informed about the initiative, I have not yet had the opportunity to read it, of course I will read with interest what this initiative is about setting up a state-owned enterprise. However, I must insist that we already have a well-established food supply chain in Slovenia, from primary production as well as to an extremely good food processing industry, which is the problem of Slovenia, which may limit the desired percentage of self-sustainment. The limit is, of course, in the agricultural areas that we have available in Slovenia, and of course we do not have enough to cover the needs of Slovenia with very effective planning, establishment and operation of food chains. It is therefore important to point out that every piece of agricultural land is kept and used for the purpose of food production; and, under all these conditions, Slovenia is extremely difficult to achieve complete self-sustainment. Therefore, it is also important to contribute to such self-sustainment when individuals or families can only take care of their own food supply, even if they do not produce it for the needs of the market. Otherwise, the Ministry of Environment and Space also requires a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Masha Kociper will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Lilliani Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u336	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! Your SMC client and you are personally part of this government – the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. There is no doubt that this government has done quite a few good things for people and the economy since its occurrence and since this epidemic, which we have witnessed, in terms of eliminating the consequences of this covida-19 crisis. On the other hand, from the beginning there are some situations that are difficult to understand and difficult to accept when it comes to influencing or trying to influence a piece of policy on the work of the prosecution, the police, some negative assessments of their work and so on. Perhaps I would mention the opening of a letter from Minister Logar to the report of the Republic of Slovenia on the state of justice in our country. In fact, the report on the rule of law was intended for the European Commission to make its report on this situation, to which it added its own personal opinion, where it gave its own personal view of the functioning of our justice. This view is completely united with the view of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which we know for many years has been systematically, perhaps even deliberately undermining the reputation of our justice; and in this regard, it also constantly makes statements that are not appropriate. This letter by Mr Logar is not only problematic because he wanted to influence the content of the European Commission's report, at least that's how I understand it, but also because he has once again undermined the reputation of our justice and tried to show the functioning of the judiciary in a different, more negative light; it has, of course, also undermined the reputation of our country. The second issue is the final form of pressure on the prosecution by Mr President of the Government. We all know his message when he demanded some personal responsibility from Mr Sketa, he called him to account for a particular matter, and we all know that the prosecution is part of the executive branch of power, but very independent in its work. I'm just curious about your view of these things. I think you're a moderate politician from a moderate party. How do you put up with this? What are your chances of resisting such behavior and showing that these are not the views and views of the entire government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u338	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Your Honor, thank you for your questions. In fact, my point of view will be based on the principle of a democratic state and the rule of law, where it is very clearly defined, divided between the branches of government themselves – between the legislative, judicial and executive branches of government. If we touch the judiciary, it is very clear what mechanisms the executive branch has, i.e. through legislation prepared by the Ministry of Justice, and in a certain part can request information; and in a particular part it can exercise judicial supervision. But when we talk about the executive branch of power, including the State Prosecutor's Office and the police – maybe I won't focus so much on the police, but more on the state's prosecution – we know that the Constitution is already talking about their functional autonomy and independence in their work, it is said in the exercise of their power of prosecution. This does not mean, however, the principle of the division of power. This is also specifically stated in the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office that the State Prosecutor is bound by the law, the Constitution and the internationally accepted principles when carrying out his task. It also has the right, when its independence and independence are violated, to submit a proposal to the State Prosecutor's Council to remedy such a violation. The Constitutional Court has also determined where the State Prosecutor's Office belongs or the executive branch of the Authority and what the powers are. Although they belong to the executive branch of the authorities, they said that the State Prosecutor's Office as a body cannot be subordinated to the executive branch of the authorities and that the functions of the execution of the State Prosecutor's Office cannot be directed in concrete cases by political and not by professional instructions. This power is not vested in the executive branch of the Authority. However, and this law also lays down on the basis of general instructions, the District Attorney, i.e. the leader, takes up a case which he considers justified. I would like to say that even state prosecutors are not fully and absolutely independent, not their autonomy is absolute, but there are mechanisms to control their legality, proper decision and also the effectiveness of enforcement. In addition to the Presidents of the District Courts themselves, this is also done by the Supreme Court, which has professional supervision and general control over them. To a certain extent, the Ministry of Justice, i.e. the executive branch of the authorities, has certain mechanisms of control. I recall your debate when we discussed the State Prosecutor's Office's report, when we stated that the problem could be the rejection of certain criminal charges, and you also said that the problem could be if certain criminal charges were brought before the Court, but there were no valid reasons for that. This is what we call the uniformity of prosecution, the uniform policy of prosecution, because we know that the state prosecutor treats people with the most sensitive content, often human rights can be violated – either by the offender or by the public good, or by the defendant. And here is that lever, which is so vested in the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office and also in the executive branch of power, says the Ministry of Justice, which can, on the basis of the right it has, be called for control and even judicial control, may require data and determine whether this policy of prosecution is truly uniform. And the Ministry of Justice has also asked the State Prosecutor's Office to provide us with information on how they are pursuing this policy of prosecution, how many cases they are reviewing and whether the Supreme Court has exercised professional supervision. And these are the mechanisms by which the executive branch of power may intervene. What I see and wish for myself is that even for the State Prosecutor's Office, there would be much more transparency prescribed in the way we have it in the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u340	Dear Minister, your answer was, of course, correct, as I expected. I'm sure you know all this, what you said, that you already knew before that question, and that you also believe that it's as you said it is, okay. But my question was: What can you, a minister, do to stop those who do otherwise? What is your specific opinion on the functioning of Mr President of the Government and Minister Logar? The modern centre, however, is a key member of this coalition, the second largest party; and I think that, and this is the essence of my question, this is the ability to use it somehow and in the framework of its operation and its functions as justice minister to respond to such matters. But you've already answered a part of the other question, and this is one situation that very negatively surprised me. I didn't predict it on the question, but you mentioned it. I did not predict it because it was not known at the time, but only at the last College of the President of the National Assembly did it find that the Law on the State Prosecutor’s Office — to me this is a great surprise — after a reduced procedure. A very benign law at first sight, the implementation of certain directives relating to the State Prosecutor's Office, in particular to this national representative of the Prosecutor's Office and so on. At the same time, it is also very strange to introduce the strengthening of the responsibility of the Head of State Prosecutor through Article 169, where, in complete disagreement with the second content of this law, very esdesian comes within what we Members, including you in the previous term, we have heard from the SDS for many years. This is that it wants to have a concrete impact on the prosecution's decision on which cases are being prosecuted, which complaints are being processed and so on. I ask your opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u341	Thank you for asking. I probably won't have enough time to answer everything. As far as Minister Logar's intervention is concerned, we discussed it. However, my message to the European Commission is crucial that I expect them to comply with the criteria set out, the methodology for the rule of law alone. And let me say that on Friday the results of Justice Scoreboard were published, which assesses the work of our judicial authorities, especially the courts. These results are once again extremely good and I think this is what counts. As for the amendment to Article 169, let me tell you that the State Prosecutor's Office has identified and proposed that more supervision be established or that the problem is to dismiss criminal charges. This somehow coincides with the coalition agreement and is followed by this provision. The arguments why this provision is a very large one. I don't think today will be the time to tell you. I think that this analysis, which I have told you about, will be able to show that in certain cases; but I can only say for one case – we wanted to find out what is going on in the area of infringements of environmental regulations and how many criminal charges are filed by qualified applicants with the State Prosecutor's Office. The inspectors say that many criminal charges have been filed, but almost no one ends up in court, which means that if a certain act does not come before a court of law, no legal practice can be created in a court of law. And that's where I think that non-unity in criminal prosecution can be a problem; but we'll figure that out exactly after we get the data and the analysis. The analysis already sent to us also shows that 10% of the cases have been dropped because they are outdated in the prosecution. But someone's wondering why. And whether the way is right or wrong, I think the Prime Minister of the Government has tried to point out this issue. But the mechanism, how you get results, is certainly different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u342	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u343	Dear Minister, everything you said in your previous reply about the single prosecution, and so on, all of this holds true. And I, too, have repeatedly stressed in my debates that I am convinced that not everything in our prosecution system is not as it should be; and that it is in this area, in my humble belief, that the most room for improvement is, if I express myself very politely. But this does not change the fact that there is a completely benign law, where the novel clearly shows that it wants to regulate certain directives and so on, a diction, something that I, as a Member, have repeatedly listened to in the National Assembly in discussions that were not related to examples, as you mentioned, of environmental protection, but precisely to a specific case. The case at NLB is an example of this money laundering, as the SDS calls it, where we had an extraordinary meeting because of it and where in this particular case the SDS interfered with the prosecution's decision not to process the case and the prosecution does not proceed. It is not about any single policy of persecution, it is about someone in politics wanting to influence the most fundamental right of the prosecution and also about their independence, which charges, which crimes have a sufficiently high degree of suspicion that we do not go into detail to pursue and which does not. Because we also have cases, including cases of politicians, which I believe and also many in the profession, that they have been pursuing needlessly since the complaint continued to be known that there are no signs of a crime; but no one has hoped to make a decision not to pursue it, because it would be politically unfavourable. And now we're going this way. Someone will supervise and see if they will make the right professional decisions, whether they will drop the right charges, and continue to process the right charges. And that's something that's completely unacceptable to me. I don't know this NLB money laundering thing exactly enough to hope to say whether they threw it right or wrong. I am sure that none of the other Members know her so precisely. And this is the basic professional right of the prosecution to judge this level of suspicion, whether a case needs to be handled or not. I will therefore propose to the National Assembly that these issues be discussed on the issues of the independence of the prosecution and the interference of the executive branch, the President of the Government and anyone else in this area, be held in public debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-13-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u344	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 14 July 2020, in the framework of the votes. I thank the ministers and ministers for the answers given. I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue tomorrow, on 14 July 2020, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I am also adjourning the 19th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much.
