ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting the 33rd extraordinary session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Anja Bah Žibert, Felice Žiža, Brane Golubović by 2 p.m., Rudy Medved by 2 p.m. I invited the representative of the State Election Commission and the candidate and candidate for the parliamentary and parliamentary agenda to the 2nd item of the agenda, the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before we move on to the agenda, I ask that, as part of the preventive measures to prevent the spread of the new crown of the virus, the representatives of the Government and the Members and Members of the Parliament present an additional explanation of the matters, presentation of the report of the parent working body and the views of the sent groups from their seats and not on behalf of the advocate as usual. I also ask that everyone who discusses sit down during the debate. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 33rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday, 30 March 2020, with a reference to the meeting. What kind of extension proposal? [[It's not.]] I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. There's 76 in attendance, 76 in front of no one. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the agenda of the 33rd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving to 2. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. Procedurally, colleague of Matthew Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u2	Thank you very much, President. In view of the fact that the Committee's report, together with the amended bill, came about well an hour ago, given that there was a substantial lack of time or that the proceedings had taken place in two days and ended only yesterday evening and there was still room to prepare additional amendments, and in particular because the Government had apparently deliberately omitted a bunch of vulnerable groups from this law, I am talking about students, talking about disabled people, single-parents, that some children would be deprived of a warm meal because you did not want to accept the amendments on an additional subsidy, that we are not talking about self-employed people, where the coalition initially proposed amendments and then withdrawn them, and in fact excluded them from this law, because the article is no longer open, I am asking you to postpone the beginning of reading of the first point of this meeting for another hour, so that in the opposition can still in those articles which are open, because we are trying to fix at least one point. As it is said, all the amendments of the opposition were rejected yesterday, thus excluding a large number of people who would also need to be cared for at these times, also need to be taken care of. In fact, you exclude a large or some part of the people who live in this country and who also suffer a great deal during this epidemic, which is why you have ruled them out by means of your actions. We propose or ask nothing more than one extra hour to be able to prepare a few more amendments. You yourself have written in your own explanations or in the purposes of the law that you are trying to take care of people as much as possible at the time of the epidemic, but I think that if we adopt such a law in this form, it will not be complete or fully accepted or achieved by those goals, which you yourself state. I propose that the 1st point be moved for one more hour, so that in the opposition we can prepare even those amendments where there is still room for correction. And if your intention is to try to address as comprehensively as possible all the aspects that this crisis brings, I think this is a perfectly reasonable deadline that we could still have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u3	Thanks for the suggestion. As you've noticed, I've already postponed this session for an hour in the morning. I believe that if it were really the intention to move maybe for two hours, that I would have been proposed by then, but now in the middle of the session, I'm sorry, I won't do that. The fact is that I observed that the working body was also on the working body, I don't know, for six hours there was a debate in the direction that the debate should be postponed. I propose that today we are as effective as possible. The goal of this shift today for an hour was to rest, to rest, to prepare additional material. I think there's been more than enough time for that. Even colleague Han procedurally assumes it is the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u4	Yes, President, I don't know how much you've noticed, but I've been trying for three days to be well-intentioned, and I understand the government in all these situations. And I understand if we've been working for two days, until midnight yesterday, why don't you give the opposition an hour, in this case to Levi, so he can make another amendment. Because we know what can be done anyway. We still have a vote now for the MVK. We still have to confirm. And it allows me to take 45 minutes off. And what are we gonna do about it? Do you understand? In any case, we can play here and we will take a 45-minute break before the appointment of a new Member, which, of course, is nonsense. And an hour, an hour to look at it, maybe an amendment is taken, is at least a bit of a democratic norm. I suggest that you be so wise that you may decide to take an hour off so that we don't play here and use business regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u5	I think I've made myself clear. I was so wise that this morning I extended this for an hour and I'm surprised at this proposal. Then why didn't you turn around in the morning and suggest you'd be two hours instead of an hour? Now that we've started the session, I think it's a little late. So I'll tell you, I'm willing to postpone for an hour, only if the majority of the Members or if the leaders of the parliamentary groups representing the majority of the Members are in favour, then I'm in favour, if not, of course. But I suggest you come to me with such a proposal. Continue with agenda item 2, Mandate-voluntary matters [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally, Comrade Vatovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u6	Thank you, President. Once again, well-intentionedly, our Group of Members and all members of the opposition have been working 100 an hour in the last three days to get us ready for these things. I agree that, in principle, I don't know, we could have warned you about this in the morning, but given that we've been talking for two days about needing more time or from college on, I think we could have gone so far as to approve this one hour without any formal problems. Like those who hold the sitting, you can make that decision your own, and there's no objection to that. Once again, I know it's been delayed for an hour, but also because we wouldn't have a report to the committee if we started at the scheduled time. That's one thing. Once again, there is still a whole range of vulnerable groups in the law, which is unaddressed. After all, the amendments are already being written, but all we ask is that you give us one more hour so that we can prepare the amendments in peace, precisely and in this way, so that they will be acceptable and that they will be as comprehensive as possible for those people who are now being released. And I'm still talking about a whole range of vulnerable groups that remain excluded from this law. It's not some sort of speculation, and so on. And if you say that you will order this for an hour, if the majority agrees, I suggest that this proposal be put to the vote and that we verify that it is the will to do so. But as it is said, I do not want to dictate here, we do not delay this meeting, we have also said several times that it is necessary to understand the need for some measures, but this one hour would allow us to complete some amendments. All we're asking is for this thing to move for an hour. It won't make any difference at the end of the day, maybe we'll end up at eight not seven o'clock, and that's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u7	I think I've made myself clear. If I receive the initiative of the leaders of the parliamentary groups representing the majority of the National Assembly, I will postpone it for an hour. Until then, we're going to the second point. We are moving on to the examination of the Finding of the Peace of Mandate to Member Franz Breznik for appointment as State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior. The mandate-election committee proposes to the National Assembly, Mr Trček, please allow me to read this and then you will get procedural. [[…]] The PSC proposes to take note of the following decision: The National Assembly notes that Ambassador Franz Breznik has been appointed Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, and therefore, as of today, he cannot act as a Member of the National Assembly as long as he serves as Secretary of State. The National Election Commission has already informed the National Assembly which candidate will replace that Member in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. On the basis of this notification, the Mandate-Making Commission will draw up a report and propose to the assembly the approval of the mandate of the Member, who will act in place of Mr Franz Breznik. The National Assembly notes that the following functions have also ceased for Member Franz Breznik: Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food and Deputy Member of the Commission of Inquiry on the detection of abuses in the case of Franc Kangler and others. I thank my former fellow Member for his work and wish him much success in his further work. My friend Runk, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, chairman. See, beyond what Matthew and Matjaž said and even in the light of Article 82, put the proposal to the vote and we all vote on it. If you vote us again, have every area so many pubic that we are publicly voted. That's my procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u9	I think I've made myself clear. We've already moved for an hour this morning. In this regard, there was no comment or initiative to postpone for two hours for three hours. In short, after the start of the National Assembly, when there was more than enough time, let us not forget that the meeting of the working body was also postponed for 24 hours, I think it was more than enough time for the amendments to be prepared. And now I can't see these maneuvers of yours any different than, excuse me, some attempt at stalling. I don't care. We'll be here by early morning. Comrade Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u10	I just want to make it clear, President, because this has been happening for two days. The meeting was not extended for one hour because of the opposition. Even this morning, I don't know why you extended it from 9:00 to 10:00. Probably not because of the Social Democrats. That's it. This moment is not and do not lay in our mouths that the opposition is to blame for us sitting for two days. And I'll be right now [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u11	Comrade Vatovec, procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u12	Yeah, it's procedural. I don't think your method of implementation is correct, President. Today's meeting moved for an hour, we know why, because the Committee's report and review was not prepared [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u13	No, it's not, you're deceiving it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u14	Ten o'clock and something's come up, so we're not deceiving anything. Secondly, the meeting of the working body did not extend for 24 hours because of the opposition, but because the total confusion was also on the side of the coalition. You announced 100 amendments, then you took half of them away, and so on. And it was necessary for the finances to deal with this proposal for two days, because obviously there was too much confusion. The problem behind this is that with these manoeuvres by investing and then withdrawing the coalition's amendments, you basically screwed up a whole bunch of people who are now falling out of this law. I don't think that's right. You didn't ask us either how much time we needed to prepare the amendments. The meeting did not move in agreement or consultation with all the parties, but it did. So it's not [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u15	What's your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u16	The procedural proposal is to put to the vote the proposal to suspend the meeting for one hour at a time. You must put it to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u17	You don't have to give it to me. But let's get something straight first. First of all, it is unfair for you to suggest that today this one hour has been extended because the coalition or anyone has not prepared anything. That's not true. It was extended because I was asked because some of them were on the committee by half past 12 p.m. and needed more than an hour to go home so that they could at least rest so much that they could attend the meeting of the National Assembly. I've settled for that. I didn't get any suggestion from you that you need more time to prepare the amendments. And you know what, if you suggest to me, no problem, but now I see it as a delay, which I will only interrupt in such a way as to put to the vote, because I see that there will be no end to it. Now you've already got 15 minutes in there with these business tricks. But first, of course, I'm going to finish point two, and then we're going to point one. We are moving on to a hearing on the conclusion of the standstill of the mandate of Ambassador Jelka Godec for appointment as Secretary of State in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Government. The PSC proposes to take note of the following decision: The National Assembly notes that Ambassador Jelka Godec is appointed Secretary of State in the Cabinet of the President of the Government, so today she cannot act as a Member of the National Assembly as long as she serves as Secretary of State. The National Election Commission has already informed the National Assembly which candidate will replace that Member in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. On the basis of this notification, the Mandate-Election Commission will draw up a report and propose to the assembly the approval of the mandate of the Member, who will act in place of Ambassador Jelka Godec. The National Assembly notes that Members of Jelki Godec have ceased their functions in the working bodies: Vice-Presidents of the Health Committee and Presidents of the Investigative Commission on the identification of the responsibility of holders of public functions in the Children's Cardiology Programme and in the field of procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material. I thank my former fellow Member for her work and wish her much success in her further work. I hereby end this point, which we will continue today in the framework of the vote. Before we go to the second reading of the draft law on intervention measures, however, I propose to the vote that these points be postponed by one hour. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. So we're going to move on to 1. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for an Act on Intervention Measures for the Control of the Epidemia of the Commodity-19 and the Omilitation of its Consequences for the State and the Economy within the framework of the current procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor first to Prime Minister Janez Janša for further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u18	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear High Council! You have before you a marriage, better said, a marriage package that has never been in this hall before. Relatively or proportionally relative to anything like this has never been seen before, except in times of war, that no other country has ever considered Parliament in the world. The package weighs about €3 billion and will be financed beyond the familiar budgetary funding frameworks of public and other needs as we have been accustomed to so far. This room is largely created by the European Central Bank, partly by the European Commission, not yet fully built, but by its creation. We are in a situation that could be best described by saying that the invisible hand of the market has begun to replace the visible time frame of the country. This law is full of intervention measures, such as no government in a socio-market economy anywhere in the world would ever propose. But now we live in a different world. A month ago, in this national assembly, you discussed everything possible, some even started preparations for the elections, it seemed as if the situation that was then in China and even in neighbouring Italy was hundreds of thousands of miles away, and that between us and those countries where the epidemic was growing, there was a wall through which the virus could not. We are still collectively in the world wondering how in a world where everything is globalised, where information is actually available in the same second in real time with the help of modern technology, perhaps such blindness was even possible. Well, today the situation is completely different, you have tens of thousands of dead in the world, even very much in our neighborhood. We also have more dead than the virus in the Territorial Defence Units and the Slovenian Police during the self-inflicted war. The number of those who are positive goes up against the number of thousands. The number of those in need of intensive care increases every day, including the number of those in need of a medical bed. We have two critical points. One critical point is the lack of personal protective equipment and critical medical equipment, which we are solving. For urgent needs so far, this has never gone away, and even in the future, the situation here is more optimistic. The more critical point is the situation on the teams that are in the first line of battle. At present, we have data from yesterday, 110 positive, says those who are already positive for the virus, these are the doctors and nurses who have been most burdened at this time, and in isolation are all those who have been in contact with them, which means a few hundred outages among those who have the most experience they have ever done in the fight against the spread of the epidemic. You know that these capacities in Slovenian health care have not been sufficient everywhere even in normal time, and now the situation is even more critical as a result of these consequences. As a result, we are doing everything we are doing to contain the epidemic to the best of our ability in the coming days and weeks to be able to help those who will need both a hospital bed and intensive care. We have a crisis situation in many homes for the elderly, which we are trying to solve across the street. That's where the most vulnerable category is. The consequences of being late from time ago are best known there. However, in addition to these consequences, which are directly the result of the spread of the virus and the epidemic, as society is not alone, but we are also not an exception, of course, we also feel all the other consequences of stopping public life, by stopping public passenger traffic, by stopping many activities in an economy that cannot be carried out, in a public administration that cannot take place, and of course, in addition to other things, social, even psychological, if you want, also causes financial consequences. Some of these should be addressed as soon as possible and therefore you have a law in front of you trying to establish conditions or to enforce those most urgent measures in order to prevent the epidemic. We haven't seen her yet. We are not yet on a linear line and it will be clear in the next 10, 14 days how successful we have been with all these measures. At the same time, with what is proposed, we also want to establish or put in place a financial pillow that will keep Slovenia, for a time after the epidemic, the potential that we have in people, the economy, culture, science, everything we need to live a normal life. The proposal you received from the government is not perfect. We never claimed to know everything. It is impossible in such a short period of time, with the known accumulation of the entire apparatus needed to get a law on the bench, to produce flawless legislation. I have been in all the compositions of this Parliament, and I know that even on the laws governing very trivial matters, we have sometimes received 60 or 70 amendments, and we have been beating each other over this material for two days. Now what you have received in the form of this law is complex matter, which is not without mistakes, which is not without 100% calculations, as far as the effects are concerned, because it is impossible to do so and because no one has ever done so far in the world where they adopt similar laws. Because of this, even from the point of view of what I have previously heard about the amendments, I repeat – I think I will say this the 15th time in the last few days, as far as you have come to the media or through other channels, I do not know because I do not have time to follow this – this law is the first chapter of the sequel. The government is preparing a second package, with which we will primarily try to resolve the issue of liquidity in the Slovenian economy, which is one of the key problems that needs to be solved if we want to work normally after the epidemic, so that we can finally discuss the budget for next year, because if the Slovenian economy does not work – I mean the economy in a broader sense, where we count anyone who creates anything – then the budget will not be, and the situation will be even more dramatic than anyone can imagine today. And part of this second package will also be the amendments to this law, which is now before you. We are alone after the proposal was made in the National Assembly, as well as after it was made public, we received a large number of comments. Many justified, many such natures that it is necessary to make at least approximate calculations before you include the matter in the law, otherwise a structure that is at least roughly logical breaks down. And as far as the timeline is concerned, nothing will be missed. Because, in this Chamber, three or four compositions of the National Assembly have not been able to adopt or governments have been unable to propose legislation that would regulate that constitutional novelty that does not allow a referendum on laws that resolve crisis situations and are of a financial nature, it is also necessary to wait by this law, following the current regulation, for the State Council to say that it does not need a veto, which is obviously not a problem with the decision of the State Council already in the laws that you have dealt with in this matter recently, and, of course, then you have a deadline to collect signatures for the referendum initiative and everything else. In practice, we have already experienced delays in implementing one law, and we know how this is going. Even at the time of the epidemic, anyone, and this is his constitutional right, can collect 2 000 500 signatures and all that is now in hand, will be removed in this law indefinitely. As a result, yesterday the government sent to the National Assembly an amendment to the amendment to the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, which regulates in more detail what the Constitution states regarding the possibility of a referendum in such cases. That law is urgent, requires, as far as I know, a two-thirds majority present. Here I appeal to the responsibility of all those who will decide whether to give the vote that the procedures we urgently need and who must go through the National Assembly will be even possible. Because we have to solve this problem first, the time of implementation of this law and the time of implementation of package number two will be, if you change the Referendum Act and the People's Initiative in the meantime, and if you also provide the possibility of working Parliament remotely at this time, which I think you are discussing now with the revision of the Rules of Procedure, then both laws will be, the right first package and the second package, can in fact be established in the same week. And there won't be anything left behind, which will never be missed. Look, the government's been working for 48 hours practically uninterrupted because we wanted to hunt hands. One of these deadlines, which we will not catch and is important, is the deadline for April payment of salaries to healthcare professionals, all those who have been most burdened in the last month. The law provides for an additional reward of between 10% and double payment. This payment cannot now be implemented by the health authorities. They can only pay a crisis allowance of 65%, non-selective or nothing. And you know for yourself that this situation is not a suitable instrument. And there are many questions and also the ill will of the beneficiaries, the bad will of those who have done not only double but triple or quadruple in the last month, and of those who have already been sick. Those in health care or health care who listen to this will know that this law will be enforced, that it will be possible to pay back, that now when April pays the wages, this supplement will not be possible to pay, because we have become involved in procedural problems that we have not solved in seven years, and I hope we will now in a few days or I hope that you will now be in a few days. The preparation of this second package is under way. We have received many proposals now that this first law has been published. Something before, but mostly then. Many proposals are good, but they cannot be put into this law in the form of a simple amendment. If you propose to exempt the payment of income at the end of the year, not freeze for this time, but, for example, exempt the payment of income to all those who will receive this basic income or supplement, but do not allow those who will work and get paid at that time, then you will make social injustices, a heavy injustice to the hundreds of thousands. That's the amendment, for example, in the proposal. There's a lot more that you don't need to be in this package, you understand. Hands won't run out, everything can be solved without nervousness, no night meetings in preparation of package number two. Unfortunately, this law will continue. We will also prepare package number 3, in which you will have to set an exit strategy as legislators after, hopefully, the Government has decided that the epidemic is the day of this and this end. When that time comes, I don't know, there's nobody in the world who knows right now. Note, however, that the point of fracture will be given when any national vaccine certification institution in one of the developed countries patents the vaccine and when manufacturers of this vaccine do enough for mass use. That day the light at the end of the tunnel will be perfect, the stock markets will go up, the situation will start to turn to normal. Until then, even if we contain this wave, there is no guarantee that it will not happen again in the fall. As a result, these measures, which are being taken, need to know that we do not know how long it will take for some to be in force. I therefore once again appeal to the fact that even because of the psychological impact many people are waiting for this law, the 100-thousand are waiting, there may have been few complications now, not all of them because of you, even because of us or because of the way in which the executive authorities are making legislative proposals at all, and when all of this is subsequently rectified, this is now being regulated, these complications will not be in the preparation of another package. But all that you're going to make as an amendment now, you can make a peaceful deposit not until next week, but certainly this month and earlier than the last week of this month, when you're going to have antikron package number two on your desk. There will also be a series of supplements on our part. There are vulnerable groups that have not been included here, but there are relatively few. They are relatively few, and this will be possible to solve in the second part, in the second step, in the second chapter, without anyone being harmed in any way. It will be significantly better to do so, for what is now being taken into account will also be weighed. We do not claim that everything is dry gold, nor do we claim that there is any mistake within all of this entanglement, that there is no security guard, or that there is too much. Surely 2 million people who were following this in one way or another know more than a few hundred people who were involved in the drafting of this law, but only here was speed important. I hope that some things with this speed, which has now become quite relative, can be arranged subsequently without much damage being done here. At the end, I would say this, exactly 30 years ago in this same hall, which had not yet been restored, there were virtually every day meetings of the then Slovenian Assembly, which had three more assemblies, and there was an adoption of the independent legislation. At that time, we adopted key laws with a few votes from the then government majority, with a few votes from the then government majority of the year. That day, 30 years ago, March 1991, three months after the plebiscite, then Slovenia, which is preparing for independence, had not yet had an adopted budget, although the government had already proposed it in the previous autumn because the opposition had been insidious. And we did not provide the key resources for all the measures of self-reliance until April, and we did some very difficult things afterwards. Still, we did it. Those who then submitted the most amendments to those of our independent laws suggested after 20 years that the day of Slovenian independence should be supplemented by a day of Slovenian autonomy and unity. There's no need for this history to repeat itself. Everything the government has proposed here has been proposed in good faith and without us thinking that we are the smartest, that we know everything. We have engaged a number of experts of all political beliefs, and we will engage them in the future. I would somehow appeal that the same approach is present here in the National Assembly. At a time when there's no internal enemy, it's just outside. What we face and what the world faces today is all described in the textbooks of the biological war, thousands of them, thousands of books are written about it. Structures in theory are set up for this, including the so-called hybrid war, which is partly present in view of the use of certain instruments of cyber-hazarding. Yet no one was willing to do so. No one was ready for this. Many international institutions have fallen asleep here, instruments are not working. The only mention of the valuable assistance we have received so far has been received from some countries in Central Europe, despite the fact that we have asked everything. There are countries that are still in a worse situation south of us, there are some who don't even have 100,000 protective masks when the epidemic spreads. It will take some time for these international instruments to somehow return to the normal framework. The European Commission has taken some measures in time, and some are ready. The European budget for the next seven years, the negotiations have not yet been concluded, will be completely different. A lot of resources will be available here to remedy the consequences of the epidemic and as a country we will have to organise ourselves so that we can invest or draw on it in real time, not as we have done so far, with great delays. Many of the rules in force in this European framework are no longer in force today. Rules in terms of the amount of State aid allowed, debt and so on - create a completely new framework which is not yet set. And in this respect, given that I do not believe that you have been informed in more detail about this debate, which is crucial now taking place within the European Union, it is very important that this space, which we joined with a large majority of the votes in the referendum and with great pleasure sings the European anthem in 2004, works in a way that will give people hope that it actually exists and that it can also be solidarity. For this reason, Slovenia has joined a group of countries where Spain, France, Ireland and some others within the euro area are required to remove the effects of the Coronavirus epidemic, which will be issued by the Coronary, which will provide, at least at the same cost, the means to mitigate and remedy the consequences of this epidemic. Otherwise, after this epidemic, Europe will be even more divided north and south, the differences will be even greater, the confidence of people in European instruments is even smaller, and the fate of the common currency, if not more, is at stake. Whether we will be able to provide at least approximately one or a similar instrument to finance the main consequences of this epidemic will largely depend on what our public financial picture will be in the future. If we provide this instrument, if at least the autumn vaccine, such as the European Commission's latest forecast, is to be relatively optimistic, we can count on the public financial consequences of this epidemic to be spread over the next 20, 25 years and that it is possible in a few years that the quality of life, well-being and so on will not be felt at all. If that does not happen, then we will return to some time 20 years ago when we were still outside the European Union, even if we are formally still inside, and where we will have to worry primarily about ourselves and there is a big question if we can still use the common currency. These things are so serious. This epidemic also affects other international relations and the distribution of geostrategic power around the world. In the end, all of this also has macroeconomic, microeconomic consequences. For this reason, I appeal to you to give the Government at least a little space to also deal with these things in the future, if possible, to ensure the functioning of the National Assembly. The Slovenian Constitution also provides for other options for such a situation. The Government has discussed this and has decided not to propose the transfer of powers from the National Assembly to the Government within the meaning of the Article of the Constitution which makes this possible. Of course, the National Assembly must be operational for this, because if it is not operational, if it is not possible to meet remotely, if only one of us is tested as positive tomorrow, then you must all be in isolation and the state will be without the possibility of making decisions in real time in situations that will not be easier for at least a few weeks but will be harder than what we face today. That is why this is extremely important, it is said, just as this law before you is an important law amending the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, that it will not have to wait indefinitely for weeks to enforce some law. And it is equally important to adopt your rules of procedure. Because if the National Assembly is unable to meet and the powers are not delegated, and the Government has not proposed this, then we will get a vacuum where there will be no one who can take real action in real time, only lawyers will write expertise and eventually it will be a shame for everyone. That's it. Again, I appeal to everything, including the opposition. Most of the time I was in the National Assembly, I was in opposition. I know what it's like to propose amendments, and everything is rejected. For the second package, I promise that we will be as cooperative as possible, anything that makes sense, that will not undermine the structure, which will solve the problems, as you say, of specific vulnerable groups, we will put into this law, because it would be unfair to let anyone out here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u19	Thank you. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Finance. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! At its 36th emergency meeting on 31 March and 1 April, the Finance Committee considered the draft law on intervention measures to combat the covid-19 epidemic and to mitigate its consequences for citizens and the economy submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. The Committee received a number of opinions, letters and comments from organisations and interested public as input for the meeting. All these documents are published on the website of the National Assembly. The amendments tabled by the qualified proposer and the amendments tabled by the Committee are also published on the website. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the Minister of Finance presented the draft law and explained that further measures would also be followed. With regard to the proposal under consideration, he stressed that it relates to ensuring social security and ensuring the existence of businesses and the economy and is intended for those who have lost their income. The measures envisaged in the proposal are simple and transparent. The Minister also explained that public treasury expenditure would exceed the scope of the fiscal rule and that the funds intended to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic would be particularly reflected in the public balance sheets, in line with the opinion of the Fiscal Council. Slovenia will also receive specific measures from financial institutions at European level, to start up the economy and to ensure liquidity. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stated that the service had drawn up a written opinion at a very limited time. It summarized some of the key points drawn from this opinion. She explained that the applicant had approached regulation in a nomotechnically specific way, with a permanent and interventional set of provisions. It also drew particular attention to inconsistencies in Articles 103 and 104 of the bill and to some constitutional concerns about the inadmissibility of the legislative referendum. In the debate, members and members highlighted the speed of the adoption of the law, which they felt affected the transparency, clarity and democraticity of the procedure. Nevertheless, the majority of the debaters stressed that the adoption of the law is necessary, as it will allow quick cash assistance and prevent the consequences of the epidemic. When laws are adopted quickly, it is necessary to ensure that individual vulnerable groups are not overlooked. The question of the use or diversion of European cohesion policy funds, as well as the European Central Bank's funds, was also raised. The debate also highlighted the consequences of the adoption of the bill and the end of the epidemic, particularly in the light of the public financial consequences and the debt, as a very large percentage of gross domestic product is forecast to fall. This is also linked to the issue of parliamentary control over the use of funds. The Minister of Finance has provided some additional clarifications, in particular regarding the individual provisions of the bill, the procedure for adopting the proposal and its financial effects. He also answered all the questions raised in the debate. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments tabled by the members of the coalition. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, the Social Democrats, the Left and the Party of Alenka Bratušek, with the exception of the amendments to Article 20 to Article 104 and to Article 110. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u21	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, a colleague of Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u22	This extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is also marked by the color of the fight against the epidemic, which we have been facing for several weeks. Coronavirus has become the red thread of our daily life, and almost hour to hour dictates the course of our days and the necessary adjustments for this situation in order to make it easier for us to survive this difficult and demanding time. That is why today, together with our citizens and citizens, we fight for our lives, for our health, for our economy, so that we can breathe with our lungs and say, we have succeeded, we have also overcome this obstacle. All gathered today must have the same goal, this is to defeat this silent virus that has become our common enemy. To stop counting the sick and dying as soon as possible and to monitor the rise and fall of the curves, we must do everything in our power to contain this epidemic. Not tomorrow, today is the time to react. It's the government of luck. With great effort and effort, they have drawn up this mega-law, despite the fact that life in our country has slowed down greatly as a result of the epidemic, and in the light of the scope of the law and its financial weight, we can no doubt argue that in the past days, the cycle has revolved around with full installations. We have solutions and assistance for self-employed, for the economy, for societies and other NGOs, institutions, farmers, students, the most vulnerable social groups. The solutions are worth €3 billion. So much is spent in the first phase alone in order to protect ourselves and to neutralize to the best possible extent the consequences of the outbreak. When we considered the bill on the home committee, we listened to a number of opposition criticisms that it is not so necessary to deal with the law so quickly, it does not follow democratic principles. It is true that the legislative process has run through an emergency procedure, but there is no way we can say that it was undemocratic. Emergency situations require extraordinary and rapid action. True, marriage may not be perfect at all points. There are still many who need our help and there are still good measures waiting for them to come. To this end, the Government and the departmental ministries are already preparing another marriage package, which we will soon have on our tables. At that time, it will also be time for us to correct any shortcomings and to cover the remaining urgently needed solutions. No one can be and will not be forgotten. In the SMC Group, we insisted that paragraph 104 of the dispute be deleted from the law. There have been too many weighty professional or constitutional warnings that its content is getting too far away from fundamental postulates and the principles of the protection of human rights and freedoms. SMC entered this government with a clear objective, with a clear vision and, above all, with clear commitments. The joint coalition agreement that the content of Article 104 does not have a place in the law that we are adopting today is an indicator of this holding, which we have already announced from the outset, and is in particular an indication that respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms remains at the centre of this government and this coalition. We agree that we must put in place sufficient controls to prevent the spread of the virus, but those that will be effective and will not interfere where they do not belong. So we can do this differently than was originally proposed. The result of the hard work of all of us today is on our tables. We were not led by division, we were not guided by possible likeness, we had only a responsibility to all citizens and citizens, because that is the case. People are waiting for the marriage to get a green light. People are waiting for the law to take effect. We welcome his solutions in the SMC and, of course, we will support him. However, we tell citizens and citizens to be responsible for themselves, for their health, for their families and for their surroundings, and for all the rest of the people and residents with whom we share these difficult days and weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u23	Thank you. The word is given by the Left Party. My friend Luke Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u24	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! In his opening address, Prime Minister Janez Janša tried to show by historical comparisons that the opposition had tabled amendments that the opposition had asked for more time because it wanted to impose because it did not want to solve the crisis because it did not realize that the situation was urgent. It's all a delusion. It's been clear all along that we're not making amendments because we're trying to convince someone, but we're putting them in because we're trying to fix the law. The whole opposition has been working all day and night since the week of the three of us, working to thoroughly study the law and to point out the problematic articles and to write corrections that no one would be excluded from this law, so that all vulnerable groups in it would get their place and help comes to those who need it most to the people. These were the opposition amendments, that was their purpose. But something else has happened in all of this, and this is the relationship of power. The government rejected all amendments, regardless of their accuracy, regardless of their argument, regardless of their content or well-meaningness, with silence, without arguments, they only turned on their voting machine and all amendments, all the way to the last, refused. In this way they have told us something very clear: Only one can be right, and this is the Government. The opposition cannot and must not be right as long as this government is in power. As long as this government is in power, it wants to have all the power for itself. This is yesterday's message, and they're not gonna let anyone get away with anything. Even in those articles where coalition representatives eventually agreed with the opposition, they did not confirm the opposition amendment, but simply wrote their amendment with the same content that the opposition would not be right. So much for a brief introduction. What was the content of these amendments? We have tried to reform the law in those articles that are most controversial. We wanted the self-employed not to be sent to a lotteries where their February revenues will be measured and given their eligibility for aid, but to establish more open criteria so that self-employed people can get aid, rather than being left with literal coincidences of how much they earned in February when they could also get paid five or ten months ago, which they often do. Secondly, we wanted to ensure that companies that received aid for workers would not forgive these workers – rejected. Thirdly, we tried to achieve that students could survive. The government has now decided to distribute 150 euros to everyone, but at the same time it has forgotten that we also have students living in rented apartments who pay 400 euros and more for wardrobes who are living on student work and who have lost their income overnight. We wrote an article in nine paragraphs that would help them. Result – rejected without debate. We tried to help the tenants. You have tenants who have lost their income overnight, rents 400, 500, 600 euros and so on. You also have restaurants, businesses that rent businesses that cannot operate. They're running out of rents. We have tried to introduce provisions into the law so that the situation for them will calm down a little bit. Again – rejected without discussion. We tried to get help for single mothers and fathers, for pretzels, for those who work through copyright contracts. We tried to ban banks from paying interest at the time the loans were frozen. Do you think that's a guess? These were well-intentioned attempts to contribute to the law, but all were rejected in one block without any argument from the government and coalition sides. Here we see one outline of future authoritarianism, and the other outline is shown in paragraphs 103 and 104, which are not dealing with the epidemic, but trying to appear as if [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u25	Thank you. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Comrade Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected government team! The image requires me to first, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats thank all those who in these extremely difficult times care for all people in Slovenia, even more, burn for our health, for our lives, and in doing so unselfishly to love their neighbor in accordance with Hippocrates' oath or in many other ways. Thank you also to those who are willing to help, who are philanthropists and patriots, but who are forbidden to do so. Why? Because one part of the Slovenian spectrum also fights its own Slovenian army after almost 30 years of independence and is afraid of its own Slovenian police. The Slovenian army and the Slovenian police are our fellow citizens, our children, our brothers and sisters, our neighbours, our relatives. So who is afraid of the Slovenian army and who is afraid of the Slovenian police? Due to such blockage of the Slovenian police and the Slovenian army, all normal Slovenia is now on its feet. Thirty years after the first free elections, there is in itself a logical correlation between political forces, which today during a terrible epidemic make it impossible for the Slovenian army and the police to help people, and between political forces, which were never an intimate option for the Slovenian independence. I continue to thank the consultative group of our local experts from the academic and business world, which was appointed by the Government and led by Dr. Matej Lahovnik. The 14th Slovenian government, which we are proud of and active in Christian Democrats for the benefit of our people, practically prepared within 100 hours of the oath five intervention measures that we took last week and had already announced that we would prepare the next package of measures. And today we are predicting that we are already preparing a new package of measures to help people and the economy to preserve jobs, measures to mitigate the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic. Yes, even any error in the law that is being addressed today by the National Assembly will be rectified within a possible framework. We are aware that it cannot be accepted for all business operators and citizens of the ideal law, especially when it comes to €3 billion and €100 million of aid. No one in the marriage who provides help has failed on purpose. Nobody's forgotten. In the new package of measures to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic, we will try to reach out to those groups that are really needed and are unintentionally falling out of the existing solution. It's about saving people, it's about saving the Slovenian economy that we all live on. This is the key purpose of this law. In the spirit of this law, which has also been repeatedly stressed by our ministers, the awareness “Whoever first does, twice does” and the important principle “Give first and then check”. Ladies and gentlemen! If I do not respect the measures proposed by the medical profession and, of course, the policy, the Government and the National Assembly, we will throw these 3 billion and 100 million euros out the window. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if we have any fear these days, we may fear ourselves. If in these bad times we can't get the best out of ourselves, the woes that await us in the good times. It's not about who's going to be first in the political game, it's about what's first. Health for sure. And that's the key human rights of everyone, the key. Those, ladies and gentlemen who are on the ventilator today have only one wish: to breathe alone again and to heal completely. No one in human society ever has enough time. SARS-COV-2 virus or coronary virus has it at its best. It is up to us, the National Assembly, Members and Members, to be generous with this time towards this invisible, horrifying enemy, who collects not only the lives of so-called risk groups of people, but also among young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek. My friend Mark Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u28	Dear President! Dear Members and Members! Today we will decide on the so-called anti-kron of mega-law, the main purpose of which was the epidemic for citizens and the economy. Probably none of us imagined that the spread of the new coronavirus in Slovenia would also lead to a crisis of unfathomable dimensions. In an effort to curb the spread of infection, public life gradually began to run out, the wheel of the economy stopped spinning, and the word “stay at home” became a new guide for a model and responsible citizen. The consequences that the epidemic will bring to our country are, at this point, impossible to fully predict, to measure. The fact is, in an effective and solidarity-based way, the Government wants to mitigate these consequences. In the SAB Party, we support these efforts of the Government, as only one captain must lead the ship, which we must also trust. On this occasion, let me remind you all of the other times of crisis which Slovenia has successfully endured. In 2013, we recovered banks with a large financial contribution and increased the country's debt. At that time you strongly opposed this measure in the SDS Party and today you will propose the same. Unlike you in the SAB, we will not be critical of debt, as we are aware that this is the price for helping people. We are a constructive opposition partner, and we are confident that we must act quickly and unitedly in these times. In order for government measures to be aligned with the opposition and the intervention laws to quickly land the parliamentary seat, we have proposed an anti-crisis partnership in our party. This would be the same as in the 2004-2008 mandate, when there was a partnership for development, led by the President of the Government. Otherwise, in the SAB, we support the proposal of the marriage package in the majority, but allow me to point out key substantive points and complements for us. Firstly, in terms of fair division, the most important parliamentary supervision for the SAB is because, by virtue of the law, the state will distribute a huge amount of public money within three months, amounting to EUR 3 billion. We therefore propose special parliamentary supervision, under which the Commission, with most members of the opposition, would watch over the allocation and use of funds under this law. What we must all strive for is a clear definition of the criteria, who gets what and under what conditions, so that there will be no arbitration and abuse. Secondly, in one of the additions to the SAB, we proposed that wages be reduced by 30% also for senior staff of the majority state-owned service. In fact, the law highlights the principle of solidarity and social responsibility, and it makes it clear that these people are, too, in respect for the example of the population. Thirdly, we welcome the withdrawal of controversial Article 104, which would allow the police the possibility of location control of individuals in quarantine past the courts. We are also convinced that we should also delete the disputed Article 103, which, despite minor corrections, is still extending the powers of the police to the extent that they cover the potential entire population. In order to delete both articles in the SAB, we, together with three opposition partners, tabled a supplement, which was unfortunately not adopted. Fourthly, in the SAB, we tried to reach out to as many vulnerable groups as possible. We welcome the payment of the solidarity allowance for pensioners, and we must not forget the students and the socially weak families whose children received two free meals a day before the epidemic in schools. The social pressures of these families are now even greater, so in the SAB we have also proposed payment of a solidarity allowance of 150 euros. Finally, let me pay special tribute to all health professionals and members of the Civil Protection Service, who are working through their capacities and for the benefit of all of us these days. I wish that we could overcome this crisis as soon as possible and that the sense of solidarity that has prevailed does not leave us even after it. In the SAB Group, we will support the bill, but we regret that the coalition did not accept a single addition to the opposition. Thank you for your attention and stay healthy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u29	Thank you. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, colleague Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! In the epidemic we are faced with, success is the victory of the community over the disease, depending on mutual trust. The state cannot do everything on its own, just as its inhabitants cannot protect themselves. It is misleading to believe that the balance between maintaining the economy on the one hand and safeguarding health on the other. There's more to the game than just money. Citizens decide whether to trust institutions or not. We must face the truth ruthlessly. The modern world of freedoms and abundance is fragile and fragile. Our world is not just a world at risk in the economy, but it is a world of risk. But a democratic state is the glue of modern society. The call for rationality and unity, which some have interpreted as political tactics, has now become part of the psychology of the masses, who do not want to live in anxiety and uncertainty. There are no clear signs of how long the pandemic will last. It is clear, however, that the consequences will be great. The consequences of coronaryism will not only be health, but many are very concerned about the economic effects. People aren't working right now. There won't be many who won't be able to get back to work. Others worry about the social consequences of how this will affect demographic trends, migration, intergenerational relations. It is clear that the economic consequences will be difficult, that the economy is not only supply and demand, but that the economy also assumes social stability, organised authority of the institution and social values. Health and death are not about printing money. Members of the Desus Group are convinced that there are issues where party interests need to be overcome. Such goals cannot be achieved by relying on ideology, but on experience and knowledge. They cannot be achieved by considering the division of prey, the party's interest or personal prejudices. Practical logic and common sense require that society be linked to achievable objectives, but not divided by specific interests. The draft law on intervention measures to combat the covid-19 epidemic and to mitigate its consequences for citizens and the economy will provide intervention measures of €3 billion and €100 million, which is slightly more than 6% of gross domestic product. The revenue reduction measures amount to EUR 213 million. The State must take control in order to respond adequately to the crisis. The crisis caused by the virus has stopped life in a completely new way with which we have no experience. The fundamental focus of the legislative proposal is twofold: maintaining the jobs and operations of businesses and maintaining the long-term social position of citizens and citizens. Most financial resources will be obtained from Europe from the European Central Bank from primary emissions. The Republic of Slovenia has already committed €1 billion and €100 million under relatively favourable conditions. The effects do not take into account measures to increase the capacity of the economy, which, in our view, are of exceptional importance. With these, the State will reduce the payment deadlines for private entities from 30 days to 8 days while extending the payment deadlines, where the creditor is a public authority, to 60 days. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that an impressive series of measures to address pandemic-induced disorders is evidence that gives other good intentions a necessary shade of conviction. Solidarity, unity and well-intention are displayed in signs of patience and acceptability. We despise all attempts to earn money in disaster and gain glory. We're not going to solve this crisis with a miracle. It could take a while. The society needs leadership in times of crisis, not preparation for calculation and calculation. Leadership is to do the first thing, and management is good to do. Members of the Desus Group estimate that the proposed law is a macroeconomicly efficient and fiscally coordinated response to the strong recessionary pressure of the viral pandemic, so we will unanimously support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u31	Thank you. The Member Group of the Slovenian National Party shall have the floor, Comrade Zmago Jelinčič Noblemeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u32	Thank you very much. The proposed measures will have a heavy financial burden; all four public cash financing will be hit by €3.1 billion. One wonders where this money comes from and how we're going to share it. Before it was said, no one is forgotten, but I think it's too taken into account. We are for solidarity, but we are not for stupidity, so the question is whether it is wise for the Government to say, in law, that employers pay every employee a monthly crisis allowance of 200 euros. In the record year 2019, some 70 000 workers were left without a regression. Do you think employers will really give these 200 euros to their employees? How will we control them and how will we sanction them if they do not and who should they turn to? We are also interested in why the monthly basic income assistance is provided by religious officials, registered churches, or other religious communities. I think it's enough to pay them social security contributions already. Then a single solidarity allowance for recipients of monetary social assistance, €150 net. Why? Because they don't work because they don't want to work because they get social support, they're now going to get another 150 euros in gratitude. But those who work and are exposed to the virus may receive 200 euros of gross from the employer. This means that the worker will probably get less money for this than the one who is lazy and does not work. This is a matter that will have to be rectified. Even for students, a one-time solidarity allowance of 150 euros just doesn't make sense, without consideration. After all, what about those students who live with their parents and actually don't have any expenses, they get the money directly in their pocket. True, this should get students who also survive in this way to work through student services. But why, then, do those who are not burdened with anything get just as much? This is said to be solidarity, something very strange here in this case. There can't be solidarity here. This is bullshit. Many things could have been saved in this way. Since the law also allows for the temporary transfer of public servants, I am interested in which public services will move here. Where are teachers, teachers, teachers and so on? You can't move them into the health system. They can't. And these people who, let's say, not just them, a lot of people who don't work, but they get paid. And now he's getting an extra, and he's actually at home. The government will take 30% of the salaries from its officials. Okay. But why does it not take 30% away from the whole public sector, from which it is a large part of this public sector at home and does not work, but it will even get a salary. In particular, if we look at the fact that, say, prosecutors and judges will not give up 30%, they have now declared themselves not to work, except in the most urgent cases, when it comes to those procedural matters that they must carry out in a quick time and for a short time. Corrections to this bill must be, are necessary and are expected in another marriage package. Otherwise, in the Slovenian National Party, we are aware that this law is absolutely necessary, that we have to adopt it and that we will absolutely accept it, there is no doubt about it. However, it makes sense to correct some nonsense, to complete some financial rewards I am and there, so some 100 million could be saved in these 3 billion, for once we will have to pay that money back.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u33	Thank you. The word is given by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, a colleague of Ferenc Horváth.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u34	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Tisztet Hölgyim es Uraim, mindenka šep nat kivánok! Un cordiale saluto and tutti. In the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, we support the proposal for a law on intervention measures to combat the covid-19 epidemic and to mitigate its consequences for citizens and the economy, as we believe it brings good solutions. In the times of crisis, as we are experiencing these days, we can jump to help the citizens, especially those in the most difficult situation. The Coronavirus epidemic is the biggest test for the inhabitants and inhabitants of Slovenia after the war of independence. Many superhuman efforts to help the sick and needy, others to do their job, and they should be especially grateful that our lives do not survive. But many of them lost their jobs overnight or are in severe distress. Everyone needs to be helped, and this proposal for a law for each brings certain solutions. Its aim is to preserve people, jobs, potentials in the economy, crafts, agriculture, education, culture, science and other areas of life, both in the current difficult situations and when life is normalised and back to the old ways, that is, when we successfully overcome the dangers posed by the epidemic. Therefore, these measures must be life-threatening, especially in border areas where the flow of goods, services and labour is almost inevitable. It is also important to have a dialogue with neighbouring countries that the measures are harmonised and that, in addition, they also allow for closer family members to be contacted. During the harmonisation of the text of this law, we have faced many issues, hardships and special problems of people. In our parliamentary group, we have submitted proposals to the Government for possible further steps, which are partly covered by this law, which concerns both pensioners and farmers, marine fishermen, parents of children with special needs and others. We certainly feel that it is necessary to help those students and students who attend school or college outside their permanent home. Many of them work at work to help their parents cover their living expenses. Their costs were left behind and their chances of earning almost entirely lost, so this is where the aid is particularly needed and we are of the opinion that it could be more than 150 euros. Especially those who can prove costs and income losses should be helped. As I have already mentioned, our comments have already been partially taken into account in this law and some of the proposals should be covered in the third package. We believe that this law must be adopted so that people's activities and assistance can be implemented as soon as possible and that any shortcomings can be addressed as soon as possible with a new, third set of laws. I want all citizens and citizens of Slovenia to remain healthy, stay at home, take care of ourselves and others and follow the instructions of the competent services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u35	Thank you. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, colleague Marko Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u36	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! We already have a second package of measures prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to mitigate the consequences of the Coronavirus epidemic. It should be noted that the National Assembly had already adopted the first package, which included measures in the area of public finances and in the area of credit payments. The second package to mitigate the effects of the Coronavirus epidemic improves the social situation of people in particular, as we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party, that it is the right path. The consequences of the Coronavirus epidemic foreseen by this law include mainly self-employed persons, students, pensioners and employers. In lieu of employers, the State will take over the payment of employees' contributions, will take over the hospital leave, will grant compensation to independent entrepreneurs of EUR 700 and will pay all contributions. The envisaged package foresees assistance to students amounting to 150 euros. The envisaged law provides for assistance to pensioners at various levels, particularly those with the lowest pensions, ranging from € 130 to €300, this is a matter of individual packages. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that there is no country in the world that in this grave crisis could only solve with one law all the consequences of the Coronavirus epidemic. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the Government is already preparing the next package, which will also include all the comments made by the opposition and that it will also include a package submitted by various organisations from the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, all these comments are in place, but it should be stressed that they cannot be folded into only one law. The opposition's attacks, too, that the coalition has disregarded their proposals, are justified on our part. We said that we had come to the realization that if we had taken all the proposals, all the amendments, this law would eventually become bad and it would probably be very likely that this law would not have gone through in some way. We are therefore convinced that all these proposals need to be included in the new package. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the solutions proposed by the Government go in the right direction, that the Government works effectively and that all these measures, which are taken, are taken primarily for the benefit of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, for the benefit of all employees in the Republic of Slovenia, for the benefit of businesses. We are convinced that, at the moment, it is not such an important balanced budget, that health of people, businesses, jobs is more important. The measures proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this law will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party in the Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u37	Thank you. The text is given by the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc, a colleague of Robert Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u38	Honourable Minister, President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished Slovenia! The bulk of the intervention law brings social and economic measures. Lately, these are people and businesses. The main concern is to ease the grip, which is right. This is what all countries do, and also any Slovenian government would prepare measures in a similar spirit. Indeed, differences, perhaps not insignificant, would be measured in shades or, if you would like, in sensitivity to individual population groups. But unlike this time, no doubt, another opposition would have acted. He's obviously holding what they say. In the face of the crisis, we all become socialists, including the different loud advocates of the slogan, that public services need competition from privacy. During the night, the country became the expected savior of everything and everyone, even the advocates of the invisible hand of the market. If we are in the last financial crisis when the capital broke, we can give banks $5 billion, it is only right that today, when the labour market breaks down, we spend 3 billion on people and their jobs in the city. At least we hope that this is a major part of them, because we cannot be sure of the process of adopting this law. With no heed to the opposition's proposals and the social partners, we are now rushing to heal the wounds left by the epidemic. But I'm not hiding that I'm much more concerned about rehabilitation in the post-Korona months. I am interested in the measures the Government is preparing for the recovery period. There is no doubt that war - which is your expression and sometimes the way you act - will leave the victims only to be measured in the number of failed companies, in the number of closed espies, in the number of lost jobs. I don't want a new worse crisis, especially not social one. But only you, respected members of the government, can prevent it. It's your responsibility. If we know the shock of demand from a bad decade ago, this time we can be afraid of the shock of supply and distribution. How are you going to stop him? How will you start production? How can we maintain or create new jobs? Do you have plans? Start exposing them so they don't rush off like they're in a hurry this time. Take it as well-meaning. Collect suggestions, consult, listen, do not give a constant impression of self-sufficiency and conspirability. Why am I reminding you of all this? Simply because of some discomfort in the experience, first from 2004-2008, when it was spent disproportionately with income and debt, leaving the country completely unprepared for the crisis, then due to the time of the famous Zuyf, when it was also cut in public investment, which proved the recession only deepened. I don't want to make any mistakes. That's why I want to know how much money you're leaving behind after the outbreak for the fall. Where did we get those three billion? There is no agreement on the issue of coronal bonds in the Union, and you are also hiding general orientations. Dear Government, this is to be done, not by strengthening police powers in the intervention law. In addition to the opposition, perhaps you would like to force a coalition partner to support the outbreak of repression or the police state that you have been warned of? Slowly and patiently, you introduce selective prohibitions and restrictive measures, gradually tighten them, and extend control. It's like cooking a frog in cold water. But the explanation is always the same as it is for our own good. You're trying to legitimize a walk on the edge, you want a blessing for a slip from democracy. I won't say where. With a few paragraphs, hit three articles of the Constitution, so much worse for the constitution. The National Assembly would like only as an pendant — yes, it already sounds familiar. By this law you will temporarily overrun some others and give the decision to the government or ministers. I call on you, be proportionate, do not play trust, especially not people, because you will need it. And above all, don't create emergency situations, we're not our northeast neighbor. Focus on new measures for people and the economy. It's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u39	Thank you. The text is delivered by the Group of Social Democrats, a colleague of Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Allow me also, on behalf of the Group of Members, to begin by thanking all the sacrificing people who in these difficult times save the lives that make the country work, and only one simple word – my gift. We have a second anti-Korona package to help people and the economy. That the objectives of the law are clear, economic experts have already stated when they presented their guidelines and have said something like this: job conservation, self-employed assistance, improved company liquidity, assistance to people who will be reduced in income. That was very clear back then. Today, we see that the goals remain the same, but unfortunately not the way to those goals. This has proved to be the case with the first criticism that businesses and individuals will find it difficult to help because of complicated procedures and that something will have to be changed in this legislation. Unfortunately, we have not been successful in making fundamental changes, with our amendments. If I just tell you, Article 22, which is crucial for people to receive this self-help or help from businesses, is very vaguely written, even because of the specifics of entrepreneurs themselves. Moreover, the more concerned I am about the future, the more motivated it is that entrepreneurs can operate better after this crisis. There was too little to listen to the union's well-intentioned warnings. The deliberate warnings of craftsmen, economic associations, and individuals pointing to the traps and shortcomings of this important law were not heeded. What else is there? Let's talk about three billion worth of help. That's an abnormal amount of money. However, the value of three billion can quickly be divorced if we do not target the right goals. Moreover, in this case much more money will be needed if these wrong decisions are taken in these days. The adoption of the three billion-dollar package is essentially no longer a fiscal rule, which does not mean that there should be no control over the allocation of this money. And that is why we believe that all the mechanisms must be put in place, so that we can also know in the opposition where the big money is. A three billion-dollar package bypassed the set that followed this logic: all in small, not helping everyone. This means that certain groups are receiving assistance, but not certain, such as students, holiday workers, part of the pensioners, part of the people who are in social distress, and so on and so on, could be listed here for quite some time. But something that bothered me personally that we need to pay attention to — the greater role of banks in helping. We invested billions in banks a short time ago. Today is the time, at least I think the banks would actively approach the help of people who have come into trouble. I hope the government is aware of that, too. But the government did the opposite. When, in the previous law, the first law, in some way, it pointed out that banks should also be included in this resolution, it, interestingly, in this second package overrun all those articles backwards and in fact allowed banks to still account for their interest in these times of crisis when they freeze credits. As far as I'm concerned, it's insane. She forgot the local communities that are in the first line of battle, besides health care, of course, with this severe disease. But they are left alone with their expenses, alone in their organization and themselves in their necessary activities. It will not be enough to remember them only when we accept ZIPRS and when we talk about averages, but now that they are in bloody need of the means to overcome this crisis, which they have not actually created. Therefore, the congregations do not need our thanks, but they need the means to help citizens. Then we insist that health care should be paid. I agree. In fact, we don't tell you how to pour fresh money into health care. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 22 and the amendment of the SAB Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Left and LMŠ groups. Desire for a debate? Yes, it is. I'm going through the list. The application shall be made. The first one has the word of his colleague Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, distinguished representatives of the Government, distinguished Minister! We are in a very difficult situation. Even a bad month ago, we probably would not have imagined such a serious health crisis. In any case, it is normal and proper for the Government to react to this situation. I believe that any other government would have done exactly the same. In this situation, it has also shown how important it is that we have a quality health system, and that is why I would stress the importance of public health. After all, it really drops down to all health care professionals who care that this crisis is somehow resolved and taken care of by as many patients as it is once again within the limits of normal. We have before us the so-called Second Antikron Act. As I said before, the very purpose of the law is entirely in place. However, it is quite a few problems that I would like to raise, the first problem being that the law was adopted very quickly, too quickly, despite a number of calls by the opposition and other groups to take a little more time to do so. Another key problem is that in fact the Government has not listened to the professional public or to the opposition at any point. If you have not listened to the opposition, it may be understandable that you have not listened to the comments of the Chamber of Commerce, you have not listened to the comments of trade unions, NGOs and so on, and this is certainly worrying. The opposition was extremely well-intentioned. If you followed the debates yesterday and the day before to the Committee on Finance, we have taken a well-intentioned approach. He wants us to actually help. We tabled a number of amendments, but unfortunately no amendments were adopted at the end. The consequence of this is, of course, that the law is weak so as not to protect the fittest. In many cases, it seems that it protects capital and businesses themselves more than those who actually need help. In particular, a number of the most vulnerable groups are exempted from these measures, perhaps not intentionally. I will only give an example of students who will be eligible under this law for up to 150 euros in compensation or payment, according to the existing bill, only regular students will receive this money, although exceptional students are those who do not work and have a certificate of that are completely equal to regular students and should also obtain this supplement in some way. After all, exceptional students work through the student service and are disabled to work because of the current situation, and must also pay any rent for the apartment or student home. But you didn't listen to these well-meaning warnings from the opposition, and you didn't accept the amendment. Also mothers singles who are not entitled, agency workers, fees, renters' apartments Where are the homeless? [[…]] With its voting machine, the government has rejected all amendments. I will give another example, we have tabled an amendment to the Social Democrats, which would clearly define by the end of May's first holidays or by the beginning of May the Ministry responsible for education will define or make clear what will happen to the graduation. This amendment, which has no financial implications, has also been rejected. It is true that the Minister has responded to this subject, but I think there would be absolutely nothing wrong if such a thing were to be registered in the law. After all, you are aware that graduation is a very important thing and that it would be very important for both parents and future graduates to know by some date how and what will happen to the prom this year. So we regret, indeed, that we wanted a different role for the opposition, as explained recently by the current Minister of Finance, the former Member, when he said that the object of the opposition is only to get in power as soon as possible and to oppose existing authorities. We sincerely wanted to approach in another way, but apparently we ran into a closed door. As has already been said several times, this package of measures will cost around €3 billion. I'd like a clear guarantee, or you'd like to tell me where that money's going to come from. Now it says in the papers that these are budget funds. Of course, there are no such funds in the budget. As the President of the Government has already said, and I also believe that a large part of this will be ensured through European funds, repayments or grants and loans. However, some part will certainly also be redistributed from other items at the expense of the existing budget. I want to know where it came from. From the past we have experience with the ZUJF, which was also introduced by Janša's government. ZUJF, which meant a reduction in salaries for public servants, a reduction in remuneration, social transfers and so on. Can you ensure that you do not go this way? The representatives of the current coalition, especially the most powerful parties, talk a lot about the overpayment of NGOs. I wonder if we can count on you to keep financing these? Will the first victims of the so-called budget cleansing as expressed or threatened by one of the SDS members? I would like clear answers to these questions. Second, so-called repressive articles, paragraphs 103 and 104 of the Act. We've been warning you all along that these things don't belong in this law. In the end, it was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service and a number of other institutions that these articles are even unconstitutional. I'm glad the 104th article has been deleted. However, Article 103 remains, despite numerous warnings by both the profession and the opposition. In a way, I am really sorry that this has not been excluded from the law, because it is still an additional shadow of doubt and an additional aggravating element when we decide on the support of this law. Somehow, all the time, when I look at a wider picture, this concrete law that we are dealing with, as well as other government measures, that the Government in some way wants even more, more than it is necessary to create some extraordinary measures that may make it easier to rule in a long time, allowing the use of extraordinary means, repressive, even unconstitutional. I'm really afraid that the government here is not completely well-intentioned, but that in a number of parts it wants to use this crisis also to strengthen absolute, complete authority. After all, it was yesterday that the Defence Committee decided to increase the powers of the Slovenian Armed Forces at the border, saying that this is necessary because of this humanitarian or health crisis. Of course not. I think that citizens and citizens know well that the migrant crisis has nothing to do with the current health situation in Slovenia. In addition, there has been no recent raid of refugees along the Balkan route. I am very glad that yesterday these two-thirds of this law or this article of the Defense Act, which increases powers, did not receive it. But there are intensities, tendencies, which are the direction the government is going. After all, we have experience from the past and experience from neighbouring countries, what friends of the Prime Minister and the largest customers in neighbouring countries are doing. After all, Hungary has also been declared a state of emergency where the defendants have been sentenced for several years. And I hope and believe that the Slovenian government will not go in this direction. I am also concerned about the relationship between the National Institute for Public Health and the Government. Despite the fact that there is now another already replaced director of this institution, the head of this institution, we have seen in the media that the government has obviously not consulted this institution in important measures. What's the result? As a result, this new director is likely to lose his mandate due to disobedience. So there's a lot of confusion, a lot of concern. I'm sure we have to defeat the virus first and then defeat the autocratic power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u43	Thank you very much. A colleague of Bandelli's has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u44	President, thank you. I'll be very brief. I will only deal with an amendment in one specific point, in another paragraph, where we would virtually only change this vocabulary, is said, "and in the second half of 2020 we will no longer reach 20%" and would change by not being "more than 50%", just in that. I'll explain to you why. As you know, in certain activities, in particular service activities, which also work on a certain scale at the time of the epidemic, it can happen that their turnover will increase during the second half of the year, and this can be significant, as we all hope will happen. In this way we give them the opportunity to grow themselves, to grow again. If they feel that their danger is to exceed those 20% of the limit, I fear they will choose a different path, by forgiving workers or even by ousting the company as such. I think that this amendment of ours is even more justified than you know, in the case of incorrect revenue assumptions, employers' statements are also criminal, so that the subject of criminal liability material is also present here. I think it is very good here to give businesses the opportunity to grow again and also, in my opinion, to re-employment. So much for me, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u45	Thank you. Let me mention that there is also an amendment to Article 22 of the SD Group. Mr. Minister Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! I would certainly like to make an explanation for some of the allegations, here I am referring to the statements made by Mr Koprivac concerning the intentions of the Government. Here I would like to make it very clear that the intention of the Government and all measures are going in the direction of preventing the spread of the epidemic in order to protect people's lives and health. All these measures, whatever you look at, are going this way. There's no need for fear here, no need to worry here to take these measures in any other direction. These measures, mentioned above, shall be taken for two or three months by this special law. Even if you wish, Article 103 in this connection is exclusively accepted, and this is indicated in order to prevent the spread of the epidemic. The number of infected people is approaching a thousand. The number of dead is increasing. And the government is worried about that. And certain measures must be taken to ensure that this virus does not spread as it did in some countries. And all the measures the Government has been taking in the last 20 days, as long as it's in government, are going in this direction. So any fear of anything happening here is completely unnecessary. The experience of the past that you're talking about - I apologize, I don't have experience, and I don't think that there's anyone else who doesn't like how to prevent the spread of viruses, how to prevent the spread of epidemics. And these measures that are before you today, and the measures that are coming, are going in this direction alone. There are, of course, insinuations that this is about anything else. I reject them here. However, we simply need to ensure that the spread stops, to stop the growth of more and more sick people, more and more fatalities, more and more people in intensive care. In the last 20 days, this government has been doing this exclusively, and all the measures are going in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Because of some technical problems, I'm not launching a new list, but I've got a few applications. I will read you: colleague Kordish, then the moon, Kovach, Zabret, Knezak, Möderndorfer. [[advertising from the hall]] That's because the haunted leaves don't work. [[advertising from the hall]] They didn't know. They checked in. My friend Kordish has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, chairman. Since the launch of the new government, we have been able to monitor a whole series of measures that are presented as measures to control the coronary virus. But as soon as we look at the law in front of us, we see very clearly what two real government priorities are. The first is the establishment of power. If necessary, by authoritarian means as well. The second, the largest part of the finance from the Coronation Package, is to transform billions and billions of public money into an additional income for capital owners. If the assistance provided by this law is granted to members of individual vulnerable groups, from poor pensioners to self-employed persons, it will be covered by fines. In doing so, many workers, self-employed in culture and other categories remain outside the law. By rejecting virtually everything we have brought to the table in the opposition from the amendment yesterday on the coalition voting machine committee, it is particularly confirmed that the government rhetoric on openness and assistance for everyone is really empty. They want to help themselves to endless power, possibly also with a fellow democracy and their capitalist friends, not to suffer their profits. If you listened to today's opening address by the Prime Minister, you could also find that the whole country is in an epidemic, only Janez Janša is in war and trapped in 1991 and the persecution of communists. We are in the middle of an epidemic, over a thousand patients, homes for the elderly are kneeling, the number of deaths is increasing, and the President of the Government is the second package of measures against the crown, with stories from 30 years ago. This is exactly the kind of Freudian moment that highlights what is really going on in government guidelines and efforts over the last three weeks. To power, under the cover of an epidemic. If it were different in this crown of law, you could read provisions that help the working class, but not mostly business. Of course, because all the money goes to business, then the money is running out for the poor pensioners, he's running out for the self-employed, he's running out for the tenants, and we even have a provision that allows banks to continue paying frozen loans. These are not measures in good faith. Of all the amendments that we have put forward in Levica for today's consideration of the law, I will present some of them, we have shared among ourselves Members in Levica, without any strong hope that the coalition voting machine will actually support these measures for working people, but I think it makes sense to discuss alternatives to what the Government is doing, if not another, to build a strong enough public pressure and maybe in the third aid package, in the next step to come up with a solution for the working class. I would like to begin with an amendment to Article 26 covering agency workers. Agency workers are a group of penitential workers who are not afforded any protection by this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u49	Comrade Kordish, I am merely kindly warning you to stick to the topic of Article 22 and limit the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u50	Yes, yes, only normally, when the debate begins and the first amendments, this debate is also more general.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u51	No, the debate is more general when the amendment to Article 1 is tabled, not to the first one in a row. So I ask you here to limit yourselves to this amendment in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u52	The President, for the first time, my minute runs by your intervention, and for the second time, we have always discussed comprehensively and generally also in the first amendment to a certain law, within two mandates since we have been here. So if you'll excuse me, I'll proceed. But if you can add one minute to time, because we've made time for my fellow Members of the Left to explain the amendment. In short, agency workers, a group of exposed criminal workers who do not receive any protection under this coronation are many. Even so, employers move them from company to company, put them on one machine, another machine, or waiting, never know what fates they can hope for. And we say that these workers need to pay a minimum wage and that the employer has to provide for this compensation. The next amendment to touch it is the amendment to Article 60. The whole group of poor beneficiaries of social transfers fell out of this law. We know that it is not only those beneficiaries who are already at the moment, but that the number of socially disadvantaged people who are going to apply for financial social assistance will, for example, increase dramatically in the coming weeks because they are losing their income. Their other activities have not been covered by the Government, they have been denied assistance and the only way they will be left is to knock even on the digital door of social work centres and apply for rights from public funds. In the set of measures on this subject, we first propose that savings be deleted as a condition of eligibility for monetary social assistance. These savings will continue to be strongly needed by people after the epidemic has ended in order to get back on their feet. Student workers, self - employed parents, drug workers, and so on — it is unjustifiable to view their savings, usually these savings are not very large to be denied financial social assistance. People need to come across and help everyone, where and how they can be helped. The second is a measure from the social pool, raising the amount to 442 euros, i.e. to the minimum cost of living. The fact that some people do not need to prove that they are actively seeking employment if they are to be eligible for social transfers is, of course, completely pointless when the economy is shutting down. Moreover, the exceptional income provided for under this Act does not consider any other entitlement to benefit from monetary social assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Before we proceed with the debate, I inform you that the application system is now in place. Now I'm going to read the entire list of applicants, and then after we've exhausted this list, I'm going to start a new application interval. Mr. Jursha, would you like to? [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u54	I would like to know how a group of Members can apply from one of the members, but if the rest of us didn't know that the system was not working and we actually couldn't apply. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u55	Mr. Jurša, let me explain to you that I have been here for exactly 10 minutes now. Before me was the President of the National Assembly, Mr Igor Zorčič, who made a list of the applicants, so I do not know why only some Members and others have been reported. I'm working on the list that's right in front of me. Mrs. Eva Irgle has a procedural procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Look, I am aware that you are only now the President, but here I have to agree with my colleague Jurša, who has rightly warned us that we have been present all the time in the Chamber, we did not know that the system is not working and that we need to apply for the debate. Now, of course, it is not fair for a group of Members to have a large number of debaters reported, but we are all in this order given to an end. I propose to avoid that anything would be wrong, that you now open the list and make a new order of debaters. That's all I'd ask, given that we're all in there, everyone we want to discuss, but I think it's fair and even fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u57	Thank you very much. All right, I'm going to take your proposal and cross out this list that Mr President has made. Now I'm releasing the application. Please sign in. We have 12 interviewees reported. As the first to receive the word, Mr Luka Mesec, Mr Sonibo Knezak is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u58	Yes, thank you for your word. I'll explain our amendment to Article 22 and try to be brief. The dilemma that we are constantly exposing is that it is necessary to pay attention to who the money will come to, to whom the funds are intended. Are they companies or people, are they business owners or their employees? Here we have a concrete case, namely, that the law provides for the subsidy from State resources to be granted on-waiting, but there is no obligation that these workers should then not be dismissed. So, the state gives money to someone for not firing the worker, but at the same time, it does not commit to anything that the worker does not, after all, forgive him. Which makes no sense and needs to be fixed. So our amendment is quite simple, saying that it is necessary to introduce a provision that states that they conclude a contract with a employer and an employee who goes through state resources on a waiting period with which the employer undertakes not to forgive the worker for at least 6 months after the beginning of the temporary waiting period. I think it's something the state demands with all legitimacy. After all, this company also subsidises this job for concrete purposes. And we all want, especially the workers who are going to wait, not to wake up after the crisis in a world where they will land at the employment facility, but to be able to return to their jobs in a circle of coworkers where they were before the crisis.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Sonibo Knezak, and the Mag is being prepared. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u60	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Minister! I would like to draw attention to only one part of our amendment that speaks of the period of decline of this 20%. This is not just our thinking, even a lot of comments you have received that February 2020 is not the right period. Now it's just because we all know what's going on. I'd like something purely operational. That's what worries me the most about this marriage, how operational it is. And I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, in your marriage, I told you last Tuesday in the debate, eight days to apply, and the office decides in eight days. I now have an open website of the Employment Office, where this law or instructions for employers is already in place, and it says because we have warned that 8 days will be extremely short of time for the agency to answer, and the Institute writes that it will decide on the application in accordance with the ZUP in 30 days. Please either arrange this or communicate with the office, because the matter does not drink. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik has the following word, prepare Mrs Eva Irgl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u62	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues! There are some amendments, I'm sure the path chosen by the government is going in the right direction. I am convinced that all the measures taken are measures taken to stop the virus and, above all, to mitigate the crisis. I am convinced that there is no country in the world that could only, with one law or with one amendment, which is expected here from certain parliamentary groups, deal with all the consequences of this pandemic around the world. Both Europe and North America, South America, not talking about Asia, face a similar crisis. Some countries take such measures, others take different measures. I certainly cannot agree with the discussion by Koprivac's colleague, who said that it is the Government's exclusive interest to take some repressive measures. The case of Serbia, which is thinking about a 24-hour curfew and all the other countries, is what's going on around the world. Once again, all measures are taken exclusively to curb the spread of this virus. However, these packages, which are now on the table that we are discussing, are primarily about mitigating the crisis and improving the social problems and, above all, those of the weakest groups. Help students, help families with multiple children, help pensioners with unique contributions. That's all he's saying. The fact is, once again, we will repeat ourselves without including everything in this law. And I am convinced that all the proposals made by both the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Insurance Association, the individual civil initiatives and not least the unions will be examined by the Government and included in the so-called third package. And also the opposition's proposals, and also the Committee on Finance, were constructive and I am sure that part of the proposals will also be taken into account in the next step. However, we have also given a number of reasons why this cannot be brought into this law. One attempt was also made by the coalition, but we have come to realize that 100 amendments would probably make this bill worse before it improved. The key objective is to adopt laws that will be effective and which will be good and which will primarily protect the health of all Slovenians and Slovenes, who will protect the position of employees in Slovenia and which will protect the situation of Slovenian companies. Last but not least, we must look at a step forward in this direction, when this epidemic is over, that we will still have active companies in Slovenia and that we will have companies where people on hold today can return to these companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Koprivc has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u64	Thank you very much, President. Mr Pogačnik, very briefly, though I believe in your good purpose, but it is not clear to me when you are talking about students – why would regular students be entitled to this supplement, exceptionally not, although we have clearly stated that regular students and extraordinary students who do not work are equal in status? Why should large families be justified and single mothers not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Eva Irgl, Mr Vojko Starović is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again, dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Although we are now in the amendment to the 22nd Article of the Party's Group of Alenka Bratušek, I think that even with the amendment of the Levica, I would like to introduce myself, as everyone else has done, to say something more general about the law that we have before us. We therefore have before us a so-called mega-crisis package, which was designed solely to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic on the economy and on citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. If we look at the OECD data, we can see that we should lose about EUR 33 million every week, these are large numbers, and of course it is right to do everything we can to make sure that these consequences are done, which are going to be washed as much as possible, but in the first place we need to take care of the health of citizens and citizens. We are therefore in an extremely difficult and difficult situation. More than once, it has been said that we have probably never faced such a great deal of hardship since the war on Slovenia. But today it is here before us, and we are all together to ease it as much as possible and to be accountable to others and to ourselves. We must therefore work first in the direction of the epidemic. If we look, everyone, today practically in Slovenia is not a citizen who probably would not monitor most of the time what is happening in the area of the epidemic, and it shows that things will increase in the coming days, weeks, and that it is necessary to be prepared for more and more people to be in need of intensive care and respirators. It is therefore important that we all act together very quickly and also responsiblely. This is what citizens and citizens expect from us. It has also been said several times that, of course, there will be a need for such situations if they occur, in some way to redistribute health workers, that it will also be necessary, for example, to call medical students, which other countries do, but the fact is that the Government is indeed with great effort, together with all those who are actively involved in this control of the Coronavirus epidemic, is very hard to do, wants and works everything in this direction so that no consequences or events that we see are seen first in Italy and then in Spain. If we look at the situation, I think we should say something about it. So the virus spreads most rapidly in Ljubljana, then in Šmarjah near Jelšah, Metlika, Rogaška Slatina, Maribor. I, for example, come from Vipava, thank God, and here I have to knock, there's not one infected one more time, nor in Idovščina. I must also say that, if I say so, the mayors are doing very well and doing their job. I'm in particular with them, especially the Vipav mayor, and I know they're trying to make things go as well as they can. But I would say the following, given that we know where the infections are most common and which are the most vulnerable groups, at this point they are the elderly, and how important it is that the infection or virus is not further spread in the homes for the elderly. I have also warned as President of the Human Rights Commission that we are very short of specific staff in nursing homes before this crisis. Of course, today it also appears, even more so, because it is a really big crisis that has affected us. At the moment, we have about 20,000 caregivers in our homes for the elderly and, of course, everything needs to be done to reduce this enlargement. Of course, individuals write me a lot, as do you. I also accompanied yesterday's meeting held by the Committee on Finance, but I must say that in some parts you have repeatedly deceived the opposition, especially when we are talking about the government not taking care of the most vulnerable groups. It just doesn't hold. It has been made clear several times that all those who were or were not covered in this first anti-crisis package that we are dealing with today will be dealt with in the second package. Here I can say that I spoke to the Minister of Labour yesterday and he assured me that they did not and will not forget anyone. And they are aware that there are many families, in particular I am talking about families with special needs with children, because they have also turned to me several times, who are still in more trouble today, that they need to be helped and that this will be addressed through measures in package 2. This is where the hardships of these families will be resolved. And it is right to say it out loud and it is right to know that no one will be forgotten, as the President of the Government said in his address. However, I would like to say that by in some way constantly challenging the actions of the Government, in particular we like to hear it by the Left Group, see, this is very harmful at this point. It's very damaging because you're spreading a false impression among people that the measures are exaggerated, that they're not meant to infect the coronavirus, but to establish a police state and so on, which absolutely does not. This, of course, also contributes to people’s not taking any action seriously. It was therefore necessary to limit movement in some parts, including through such contributions. We are all responsible that when we say things, we know what we say, and we are obliged to speak the words responsibly. But it's not that sometimes, I'll say, we're political and that's when it's the least appropriate. And today we are in a situation where this is certainly the least appropriate. If we look at the law itself, colleague Pogačnik is in charge of this package with us in the parliamentary group, he has already explained what measures it brings. I believe that citizens and citizens themselves know very well what measures it brings, but I would like to mention here that the economy is aware that it supports these measures, that they are satisfied that it has taken care of micro and small enterprises, that it has taken care of the self-employed, that it has taken care of the self-employed in culture, when it is often said that it is not taken care of. But, colleagues and colleagues, today we are in a situation where we need to be aware of three things. First of all, the need to protect people's health is said to do everything possible to keep as many populations healthy as possible, which of course means that less when we are in contact with others is less likely to transfer. And that's what's most important. Then ensure the social security of the people at a time when this crisis is the greatest and the consequences of this crisis need to be mitigated and social and economic measures must be taken to mitigate the consequences and to protect citizens and citizens and the economy. We must all somehow survive this crisis together, and I think at this point the Government and its ministers are actually making every effort to do so. Above all, these are measures that have been prepared in a spirit of righteousness and have been so formed. All those not currently covered in this package will be covered in another package. It will also highlight solutions for them, including some measures related to vulnerable groups. At this point, I can only say that I strongly support the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is really fighting in difficult situations and is doing everything to get us out of this crisis so that we will feel the least consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Member Vatovac shall have procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Vice President. In this implementation, colleague Irgle, I believe that there have been some irregularities, even unrelated to the content of the debate itself, or specifically to the law, if it was correctly understood. The Levica Group has been told that we are creating some negative atmosphere with regard to the Government's actions regarding measures against the Coronavirus in view of the spread of the epidemic, which is simply not true or true. We have all the time, in all our debates and also in our public communication, stressed the need to take into account the limitations of movement and all other self-defense measures. However, when we speak in the parliamentary group about the police state, we are talking specifically about this law, where the Government has tried, under the pretext of saving the economy of individuals and others, to put in disputed, constitutionally contentious provisions regarding the additional powers of the military, as pointed out by constitutional lawyers, the Legislative and Legal Service of this National Assembly, as well as by someone else. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u69	Dr. Vatovec, I have to interrupt you, this is more of a replica than a procedural proposal, and please, if you'll limit yourself to a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u70	I'll finally come up with a procedural proposal. You've all probably gotten a box full of messages from people, residents and residents of this country not to accept such articles, we've heard the opinion of the information officer and so on. In short, I'm asking you not to deceive and put Levice here in some position of someone who's trying to guess. Once again, we're trying to be constructive and help. As a procedural proposal, however, I would ask the Vice-President to make sure, of course, that the debate does not interfere with the autonomy of the opinion of certain parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u71	Dr. Tašner Vatovec, I believe that you know the rules of procedure and you know that the Rules of Procedure do not allow me to comment on any Members' substantive debate if it is still so controversial for you or for anyone else, so that your procedural proposal is not in place and is not even a procedural proposal. Therefore, all in the future please, if you have procedural proposals, let these really be procedural proposals, not substantive ones. This implementation of yours has now been more like a replica than a procedural proposal, so I ask you to wait for the discussion in the future, and you will say all that you have said now, and it will be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Before continuing the debate, the President has already said that we are also discussing the amendment of the SD Group to this article. We proceed, Mr Vojko Starović has the floor, and Mr Jože Lenart is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Hello, everyone! After having experienced a consistent rejection of any opposition contribution on the Committee on Finance yesterday, I feel the need to speak out on the protection of democracy and to draw attention to the danger of a single mind, which I have also written a book that is contrary to democracy. The house in which we are currently sitting and working is called the temple of democracy. This city is supposed to be designed precisely for different aspects of the truth to come. Among all the rights that define life in democracy, it seems to me that perhaps the most important right to more truths is the right. But the truth is as many observers as Albert Einstein, one of the greatest minds of all time, has said. These different truths and conflicting views in democracy, as we see, are meeting and aligning democratically with democratic dialogue, so it should be, not forcefully. Despite the conflicts that we are witnessing to today and all the problems that arise in this regard, democratic dialogue is still the best way to reach more balanced decisions and policies in society that bring about orderliness, stability and greater justice in society. So the essence of democracy is to admit that there are more truths. If we are gathered here truly committed to democracy, including the main government party that bears the name of democracy also in its own name, we must seriously realize that no one has this truth, everyone is right, and that is its truth, and everyone has the wrong and they are the enemy of a people who speak otherwise. But we share that truth. And since the truth is shared, only dialogue can lead to it. With appropriate negotiation and research, Parliament is also a place where we can create some form of the future in this crisis as well, and even after the crisis, which is likely and attractive to keep us going. But I have to say something else about the causes of the division of people into more liberal and more conservative or to the left and right, somewhere in a half-to-half ratio, which is present in the vast majority of countries around the world, science has also explained the deeper causes of this. In fact, we were able to read, using new technologies to measure brain activity, we have detected this division in infants and young children, so by nature we are born with a more liberal or more cautious, conservative brain. And this is undoubtedly a choice of evolution that is basically blind, but it preserves what works. The conclusion is offered on its own. The distribution of half contributes to a better and more creative relationship between individual and collective, during the conquest of the new and the holding of the tested. So this search for some balance between different aspects is already an old and established principle, as the old Slovenian proverb says: More heads know more. For example, if I mention from the business world where I come from, for many years we have been using the knowledge that evolution has also made sure that we are naturally different people, that we are divided into a number of so-called archetypes. There are so conventional types of people among us, so nature prospers because they are focused on orderliness and responsibility, and social types that are focused on caring for others, thank God, there are many and many others in health care, and realistic types that focus on work and result, then research, art and entrepreneurship. These different archetypes are complemented and strengthened in each group, each working environment. This division, this understanding of these different archetypes, is used not only in the business world, but everywhere else, also in the recruitment and career orientation of schools in our country. I repeat: More heads know. Let us also consider this in the temple of democracy. Let us not allow the minds of one and his willing followers to prevail. We don't have enough knowledge to build a tower or build an airplane. People are not successful because of their individual reasonableness, but because of their insurmountable ability to think in large groups. We do not agree with the cynical words of our great writer Vitomil Zupan, who said that political tropics are created to make the weak feel safe, to have a small sense of greatness, and that even the incompetent get a part of the prey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Jože Lenart. Get ready, Mrs. Andre Zabrett. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u74	Thank you very much, President, for your word. In this article 22 of the law, which speaks of who will be entitled as a employer for a measure to compensate workers on temporary waiting time for work and, of course, for this reason, the situation which has arisen, as well as the exemption from payment of contributions. This is certainly a key measure to preserve jobs as well as the survival of companies to relaunch after the crisis has ended. In this article, however, I see the problem under the given conditions, in this second point of Article, which speaks only of this 20% reduction in realisation over the past period or for these new enterprises 25% and 50% in the previous month. In practice, I say that there will be a lot of problems here that will not give the individual employer an opportunity to apply, and that is unjustifiable. Here are the reasons, such as business growth, seasonal impacts, project work during this period. Here are the builders, here are the flower growers, the vegetable growers, which are a particular problem today. Let me take advantage of this here and mention that they coincide at this very time of crisis, and for them there will be up to 100% of the revenue shortfall. After all, you go to Lidl today, you go to Hofer, and you can buy imported flowers and vegetables. There's some illogicality here and I'm calling on the government to do something here because it's something impossible that's happening here. People are turning to us, and they can't believe it's even possible. It doesn't work here with practice. And in the end, let's eat this at home, this gesture that the Ministry of Agriculture wants to implement, will have virtually the opposite effect this year. There are also service activities here and, of course, there are many things that entrepreneurs are warning us about today. We're gonna have a headache here, believe me, and I don't really see how that's gonna work out here. Before that, I would like to draw attention to another broad group — these are reprimands, self-employed ones, who, because of the negative practice of economists over the past few years, have had to make a virtually forced decision about this type of work and employment. All those who are few are in a substantially poorer position today and do not have the same rights as they would if they were normally employed. This is the rakra that we're already warning over several governments, and somehow it's always getting worse instead of getting better. The next area to which I must draw attention is also the broad range of young and vulnerable groups, which have virtually fallen out because all our amendments to these groups were rejected yesterday. I know, you said you'd save them in another package. But I see no reason why we have not already given them this option, or we have not included it. Whether we can imagine, honourable Members and Members, how groups of reptiles and young people feel today, these are the first job seekers to apply for employment after school and have already been unreimbursable and overlooked in this law. We have crustaceans for this group that we have eliminated a special term – iberznik. Here is also the song that our cantator Milan Kamnik sings, and it has very deep meaning as well as Koroški in Slovenia itself. In all of this today, the thought also led me to Cankar’s work on the clan, the work Running Behind the Car. Here I see in this image of France these young nicknames, which have been running behind a car in the hope of happiness for years, but also the goals of catching up to this wagon, and they are getting more and more distant. In the end, France gave that lucky man. Who will give greater hope and conditions to young people? Without young people, however, we know that it is not possible to make progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Ms Andreja Zabret is next, and Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik is preparing. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Madam President. We have tabled an amendment to this Article in the LMŠ together with Levica, where we define that the employer must submit a written statement that will commit to retaining jobs for workers at least six months after the beginning of temporary waiting for work. The implementation of this law, if no funding is provided, will only be a letter on paper, so I would stress the public financial aspect of the law that we are adopting today, which is difficult to estimate by the Government 3 billion. In the past two days, I have also asked the Finance Committee about this and I have also asked it for the financial design of the implementation of the law, which I have not received. My questions or concerns are in particular: What are the sources for financing these measures, so that we do not do much damage to the country and overindebt it? Is the estimated financial implications of the Government real? How are we gonna spend the money? Above all, it depends on how we recover after the epidemic is over. And what measures await us in the second crown of the law announced by the President of the Government, which should enable liquidity and the start of the economy? The Minister of Finance's response was that financial measures were designed so that economic life and people's lives would not die, businesses and people would receive financial incentives, funding resources existed, are real and reliable, and the system was also stressed that the system was sustainable. In a speech given today by the Prime Minister of the Government, he said that the law would be financed outside the familiar framework, as we have been accustomed to so far, some of the ECB's funds, the EU, that the system is not yet fully built, but is under way. This worries me a little, since I have a lot of unknown things coming to me in unknown times and in unknown conditions. Otherwise, I hope for the wisdom of the government and the finance minister that this will be true. As the opposition, we will oversee it. I would like to see the concern in the law more focused on people and the economy than on the profits of banks. In this proposal for a law, a sentence was stolen to account for interest on the deferred portion of the principals on a regular interest rate basis. In addition, banks will charge costs for the principal’s decree. With our amendment, we wanted to achieve that the payment decree for the borrower was free, but unfortunately the coalition did not support it. That's too bad. Today, however, the President of the Government has offered his hand, and I hope that this time he really thinks that they will be more cooperative in the second corona law and will take our proposals into account. So I'm still hoping we can make it right in another Coroner's law. Hope dies last. This would mean a great deal to people, and it would be right now that people need help to get banks to help them in the way that citizens helped banks in 2013, when they did not, of their own free will, rehabilitate banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Šircelj, Minister, made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I will try to answer these questions again, I have already answered the Committee on Finance twice. What's the source? Resources are existing resources, which are taxes in the budget, contributions to budgets and so on. Another issue is the resources from the ECB, the European Central Bank, but these resources are intended for business banks. The European Central Bank operates through business banks or business banks with the European Central Bank and, of course, the European Central Bank cares about liquidity on this basis. Here I think that in these times the economy, the population, the banks and the state must work together. Working together because we all have exactly the same goal, that is to limit and banish the virus or epidemic. The following resources are also individual sources from international sources or I will say transatlantic institutions, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and so on. I must say that here too is the Eurogroup's recommendation that those provisions relating to finding out when a loan becomes a bad loan or a bad claim that banks can be a little more flexible here. While this has been announced by the management of these institutions, we now, of course, expect it to come into practice or even into the rules of these institutions as they actually see it. And, of course, here it is, whatever we take, given that I expect financial resources from taxes to fall in view of the decline in the economy, given that we have negative growth or probably know the latest forecast of UMAR, which is minus 8.1% on gross social product growth, in fact, it is not about growth, but about decline, of course, the resources from this title will also be reduced, and debt. Debt under the Government's Budget Implementation Act is a framework under which the Government can be entrusted, and if there is a need for this framework to be changed, we will come to the National Assembly and ask Members and Members to vote on a greater level of indebtedness. This depends on how strong the virus is or will be, what the impact of the epidemic will be. This is also an answer to Member Koprivec, who also said that this information is not there. You probably know all the information that Slovenia was in debt about ten days ago. You probably also know at what interest rate, for how much, this is public information: a billion 100 at a relatively favourable interest rate. I expect interest rates to be relatively high on the European market in order to make it clear that interest rates will be stable and low in the second quarter of this year. Over the next six months, I expect interest rates to rise moderately. You also asked what were the measures that would come in the second or third package. This is a so-called liquidity package of measures, short-term assistance to the economy. These are measures relating to safe flexibility. And the third measure is the investment aspect of the exit from the crisis, it is said, how to actually come out of the crisis. So if you're asking me now whether or not it's actually a strategy here, you can say it's a strategy or it's not a strategy, because these are plans, if you want, also a strategy. Of course, from this point of view, cooperation between all of us is extremely important. As I said on the economy, financial cooperation between the economy, the population, banks, countries is, of course, important cooperation here, so that these measures will be as good as possible. You're worried about surveillance. I have no difficulty in using these funds or in controlling the use of these funds. I think that there is already one control mechanism under which the Ministry of Finance or the Government will submit to the National Assembly every month all information on the measures taken in this connection, which have also been carried out, you voted a week ago. After all, there is a Commission for the supervision of public finances here, and I have no problem with any other commission or any other kind of commission being set up. I want to act transparent, transparent and, of course, efficient so that this money is also spent as efficiently as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Ms Lidija Divac Mirnik is next and prepare for Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Maybe just for a start. Why is there only a finance minister sitting here? We are considering the law, the worst, in the notes, of course, the most important law at the time of the coronavirus, but there is no economic minister here, neither the Minister of Labour nor the public administration. I don't understand. I just hope everyone doesn't take pictures of some new boxes that have arrived, and they don't publish doing anything else. I would like to begin by quoting the Prime Minister Janez Janša, who said: “The proposal is not perfect, it is impossible to prepare flawless legislation in such a short time.” End of story. I absolutely agree with Prime Minister Janez Janša. That's why we wanted to help the opposition, so we worked 24 days a day for a few days, but, look at the fraction, you didn't confirm any opposition proposal. Then Mr President of the Government said, I quote again: "The government is preparing another package. Liquidity in the economy will be resolved so that we will have work meat." And with that quote, I absolutely agree. And I'll tell you where we can save jobs. For example, in our amendment to Article 22, where we are actually giving you another opportunity today, there is a second attempt to save jobs, specifically for tomorrow. It's only possible for an introduction. And now, what I think is important to me to draw attention to here today. Unfortunately, this proposal does not provide compensation for unemployment for those workers who lost their jobs during the epidemic. You know why not? Because this amendment was also rejected by the coalition. Then let's move on. You have also released companies, including public institutions, including youth centres, which implement public programmes financed from public funds but provide salaries for employees also from market funds. Nor did you want to include these in this law, which actually saddens me very much, indicating that the expert commission that drafted the law did not even deepen into the public institutions from which the vast majority of them came. Now understand who can, this expertise. Thirdly, the powers you have entered into this Act are also disputed, namely to regulate the unilateral redeployment of public servants to other jobs and to another employer. I sincerely hope that this will not happen, in the notes of course, the punishments of those nets and that those who do not think like the Chief of Staff will not be penalized where you are moving. I sincerely hope that's not the point. Because if that's what this is about, then I'm afraid public servants are getting very badly written. I would also point out that the law states that payments of deadlines for direct and indirect users of the budget for payments to private entities are reduced to 8 days and that the payment deadlines are 60 days when the creditor is a public authority. I am afraid that this proposal of the law also addresses public institutions in any field, culture, education, and elsewhere, very badly. I really hope so. Therefore, I suggest that all that you do not want to hear today really fix in this so-called new package that you are preparing, where you are supposed to save the economy again. But I'm politely asking you to think a little bit more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the following word to prepare Mr Franz Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Vice President. The fact is, we've been talking about this marriage for a few days now and we've actually just been working on and asking a lot of questions. It was a lot of suggestions. Unfortunately, today, of course, I find that, in fact, some very sincere serious intention to accept any proposals that we are reasonable, clear, in fact, already pre-emphasize, of course, that they will also have certain consequences, if that does not happen, in fact, it has not been from any beginning, nor is it intended to do so. I must say, and I must admit, that I am a little disappointed at President of the Government's speech at its outset, because he spent a lot more time dealing with the National Assembly, what he would do if he didn't, and what I know about everything else, than I have to say for the first time in history that the President of the Government is dealing with the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which is extremely unusual for me. [[…]] Even a very frank and clear statement, if there is no such thing, there will be no such thing, something that we have not yet proposed, because we want the National Assembly to work, but that the powers of the National Assembly will be transferred to elsewhere. It's a horror for me. I'm sorry, but I'm not going to allow myself to do that, but no matter what position I'm in in the National Assembly, I'm going to listen to this from the government, which is the second branch of power, to speak to the other branch of power, how it should do something. This seems unacceptable to me, and it takes advantage only to burn with a finger, how to be obedient to the adoption of this law. That there will be no misunderstanding, I will support this law because I think and I am sure it is right to accept it. But of course it won't stick my mouth to say what is right to say and warn. I wanted to be very constructive, and I'll try to keep trying. Of course, I asked certain questions on the committee, not one, but not one of them was answered by the minister. He spoke exactly three minutes to tell me something and talk about Article 22, and that's all. But he did not answer the following question, and so today I will ask the following questions again, because I expect to see and not least to get a commitment or a clear message that this will not, with arguments, I will accept it if I get it, why certain things do not change. In fact, I have made it very clear in my presentation to the committee that we can save someone for two or three months, but if the measures are not meaningful and consequently linked to the fact that these companies or independent entrepreneurs will close their business by the end of the year, then we have done nothing. I am very sorry, but we must be aware of one thing: the economy is working to finance, not least, the budget with which the country implements policies in this country and realizes all that is constitutionally bound. It's a basic prerequisite. I hope we're all aware of that. But obviously some people just don't hear it well. I must say that I am terribly disappointed because nothing has yet been fixed at that point that independent entrepreneurs, businesses can have a significantly longer period of proof of how their traffic has actually fallen much earlier than what, of course, the law rules, from when and under what conditions, of course, they will enforce or prove it. The fact is that the crisis around the crown started in a number of countries a long time ago and, unfortunately, companies operate not only in the domestic local yard, but also in a cross-border way, and these are facts. The other thing that seems very important to me is to see that the bank is being protected to the point of being unconscious. We have recapitalised these banks with a lot of money, and now we are protecting them in such a way that we will reward them further for the prize, because we will introduce a moratorium on credits, so that we will, of course, finance them and at that time, all those who have rented credits will, of course, pay even more interest than they would otherwise. If that's help? Excuse me, this is anti-help. This is no help. But it's helping banks again. Because I don't think any bank wants to have money in their basements or vaults and not spin around with it, it's said that this money is borrowed and that someone is spinning it. The stalemate of the crisis is extended, but at the same time, not because the party wanted it, not because the bank wanted it, but because we simply gave it the opportunity to extend this interest period of repayment beyond the contract. It's a crime, or I can't say it. And that I haven't received an answer in all this time, Minister. And the minister should be the first one to jump into the luft for this. Whether he had to agree to the pressure of the Bank of Slovenia and, of course, the Association of Banks, I did not get this answer. I'd like to hear it. Or we are once again violating some principle of the independence of the ECB and what else do I know? That's what we've been listening to. Finally, the SDS party was one of the first to scream that it should not be so viewed by the banking system, that there was one planet that floats and spins its story. I can't hear these lines anymore. Where are these sentences now? They're gone. Let's move on. In this law, we have mentioned that moratoriums on loans will be introduced. Sorry, the economy takes over-borrowing credits for a short period of time, but the underlying funds, the premises, especially the small economy and the independent entrepreneurs, do not take credits but leases. In one word, the leasings are not mentioned in this law. And what is even more criminal is that we only mention banks and savings banks, while everyone who knows a little bit about the banking system knows that no bank gives leasings directly, but establishes companies, because, of course, these leasings can be risky, so it creates a part of the house leasing this and this and you, on behalf of the bank as the mother owners, of course, operate and lease transactions. And I'm sorry, did we do anything if we didn't introduce this moratorium? When the crisis is over, they will no longer have the basic resources and spaces because we know what leasing means. There's not a lot of sausage there, but it happens overnight because it's not their property. You know the situation, the difference between credit and leasing. Next thing. I did not get an answer as to why this attitude of consent is that we are Members, Ministers, State Secretaries of Criminals in this society, who have to be paid first, and 30%, while the people we send on hold have 80% of the recognised salaries. So let me tell you this, because I know it's annoying to talk about it, because nobody wants to talk about it, because it's not good for the voters, because the voters are going to say it now, so, of course, the Members have to be taken away, immediately, from the minimum, but I don't know what else they're saying. Yeah, I'll say it out loud. Let us be clear in this country whether we want to have a policy, whether we want to have a parliamentary system or not. If not, let us change the constitution, since this is legal, let us introduce some other form of organisation or action of this country where Members will not be known. But maybe we'll have a kingdom, but maybe it suits people better, I don't know. Indeed, this is one common story of the extreme pathological nature of these salaries, as far as politicians are concerned. That it has to be taken from them first because I don't know what's going to happen. Now just look at the information that the Minister has provided us, for 2 months 30% to ministers, Members and Secretary of State and a million half to pay. And we give 3 billion in this package. Look at this relationship, come on. What have we done with it? Nothing. We can't close a serious lease on one serious company if we're just talking about this story. But no, that's how it's done. While we do not stress that they will be the same politicians — the greatest paradox and stupidity — we can raise our salaries because we will actively work in the time of the crown, the law says. What are we doing?Oh, my God! What are we doing making a fool out of ourselves or making a fool out of someone?Oh, my God! Next thing, student aid criteria, 150 euros. I didn't hear them today. Minister, I haven't heard them yet today, and I'd like to hear them say that I will at least understand because I don't understand it, I admit. If the others understand, fine, but I don't understand it and I want to hear it. Why poor 150, why rich 150? Why didn't we make at least one criterion? The Centre for Social Work, or all decision-makers, who can be assisted by such and different conditions, because of the rent, student rooms, is known precisely because these records exist. Why don't we do it? And who suggested it? That I won't talk about pensions. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Jursha, my friend Jurša, I'll tell you. What's the big deal? What is simple is that we have very different categories of pensioners, from those who do not need any assistance and to those who need help. But we've divided it now and we've decided on a scale called up to that much pension, up to that much pension, up to that much pension. But when the crown is over, will those who have so many pensions now no longer need it? That can't be criteria. Let's say at least one normal criterion that will hold if you understand what I'm trying to say. I'm not stalling people who need it, but that can't just be the reason, let's split it up a little bit so we can say that we took care of them, too, because we didn't. One thing that has disturbed me greatly is, of course, that the President of the Government says that we must adopt this law because of the psychological impact. I'm sorry, I hope we're not really sitting in the National Assembly for psychological effects. Because if that's why we're sitting here, then why don't we just go home and stop going to politics? Because I have psychological effects up here, over my head. But I am sitting here to adopt legislation that will fit and respond, of course, to the problems and situations we have in society or to psychologically appease people. People aren't crazy. People know exactly what we're doing. They want results. We don't have answers to people's universities, we don't have answers to individual me, people ask, and now what are these 200 euros, what is this help, who is paying for it, who is going to cover it? [[…]] No one has a clear answer. We'll take care of it, says the Prime Minister of the Government. We will accept the suggestions of all of us, because we must play the story together, because this is a war against an external enemy, he would call it that because he loves military expressions. But, you know, on the other hand, on the board, I was really hoping for the clues that we had inside the coalition to support the relevant amendments, including the opposition, and I'm not going to see that. At the same time, it tells us all that we must be united. But no, we will not be united, because only what the Government accepts will apply because it talks to different experts, meets with everyone, accepts, listens, but always votes only what it wants. That's why I'm wondering what this is all about. I won't forget the sentence I liked from the Prime Minister at the beginning: money is enough. On the contrary, he said more precisely: “The money will be as much as we need.” But now I'm going to add... to what we're going to decide. Or something else? Did I understand anything else? This and this law and all the following packages, I hope they will indeed be the answer to some unity and cooperation, but not to the uniform and projection of only one mind. Because it can't be. Not in the economy, not in society, not in social life, not in health, not in any field. We may have some of our own policies, but I'm afraid this start isn't the best answer to what we're expecting. In the end, I'm tired of someone explaining that we can't share, but at the same time, he wants to split it all up. And that's exactly what I heard today. Don't talk to me about war and crown because these are two different things. I hope we can only talk about 1991 at celebrations. Because of me, this is a time where we need to remember and remember what happened and what we achieved. And that's right. But when we talk about the crown?Oh, my God! Don't call me a fool. And don't drag me here and blow on people's souls how we have to be united. We were united, and we voted that we went this way, more than 80%, but that was not Janez Janša's policy, that was the policy of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, do not reunite this nation on the basis of the crown. Now is not the time to politicize.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša is next, and Mr Dušan Šiško is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u84	President, thank you for your word. Greetings to the minister, as of course to everyone else in the hall! Since I'm one of those guys I like to remember in 1991. I have to say that at the time we Slovenians really got together. We also did so in the financial crisis and, of course, many times when Slovenia was struck by natural disasters. Yes, now I must say that for the first time in our short history of our country, we had to break up. For us, shops, workshops, shops, schools have closed down, traffic has stopped, and so on. We actually came on the days when Slovenia literally stood. But not only Slovenia, other parts of Europe and the world. The Coronavirus epidemic poses the greatest threat to the oldest population, which is at the same time the population that brought us together. The democratic party of pensioners has always advocated the interests of pensioners and weak groups. If we together raised our voice against further cutting of pensions during the crisis, then we advocated the necessary re-coordination of pensions, of course also extraordinary coordination and correction of injustices. Now is the time to say it out loud again, remember the pensioners who are one of the most vulnerable groups. Of course, I listened to my colleague Jani, who just said his views on this issue. Yes, this matter could be handled in another way, but perhaps at this time what has been proposed is still a good and very good solution, so at least we are assessing in our parliamentary group. The largest group of citizens and citizens who are the most vulnerable to the pandemics of the virus and who are also, at the same time, the most economically vulnerable groups of the population are pensioners. The last two years have actually been more favourable financially, exceptionally and regularly coordinated pensions, this has not been the case in the past due to the economic crisis, but there are still 5.6% of pensions that have not been paid and that was not easily possible during the economic crisis. But the current crisis with the Coronavirus has put us all on solid ground, so in Desus we are extremely pleased that we have found obedience and understanding in the coalition for pensioners with lower pensions. As one of the most risky groups, pensioners must take special care of quality food, medicines, vitamins and, on the other hand, adequate protection with disinfectants, masks and so on. It's all worth it. If you have a small pension, every euro is very important. Even lower pensions are even more burdensome. For this reason, of course, we have proposed that pensioners also deserve a special allowance that will make it financially easier for them to survive this crisis period. You can see that the epidemic is most affecting the older population, and, of course, it is also the most unfortunately dead. Of course, this solidarity allowance will not replace the annual pension allowance for beneficiaries of disability benefits, as provided for in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. It is also irrelevant that all of those benefits, which are of a unique nature, will not fall under any of the executions, are not taxed and do not affect the other exercise of public funds rights. In addition to pensioners, other beneficiaries of cash social assistance from the April 2020 security allowance will benefit from a single solidarity allowance. We also listed students among them. We've received countless calls and questions from outside. What about us, or are you aware of our distress? Yes, we can hear you and we will do everything in our power to save it in the second step. We need to be aware that the country is not a bottomless bag. All the hardships are understood, but we need to think about the time after this crisis. At this point, it is given as much as it can through all national, European and wider financial instruments, so it is believed that the state will be able to bear this enormous financial burden. At the same time, however, the patience of all of us and the capacity for mutual solidarity is crucial. Therefore, a key has also been created to pay for the single solidarity allowances. In these times we must all step together in some way, we must stand at least 2 meters apart, regardless of political discoloration, if we are to overcome this epidemic crisis and successfully launch the Slovenian economy. If we do not do so, then this may mean that we are writing very dark or difficult times. Thus, measures must be swift, effective and targeted in every aspect of our lives. This is what the Government is trying to achieve not only through the measures provided for in this Act, but another act is being prepared to remedy the shortcomings of this Act and to cover all those groups which are not covered by these measures. However, we will have to take into account in some way, as I said before, that the country is not a bottomless bag and that we will have to think carefully about how we will distribute the funds, so that we will, of course, also be concrete and fair to distribution. The exact consequences of the present crisis, which, while primarily of a health nature, has an inexorable impact on all segments of our personal and social life, are difficult to predict in advance. Financial needs assessments to ensure the development of effective tools for controlling and mitigating the consequences of the epidemic can only be predicted approximately. There is probably no expert or hero who can tell us today what the consequences will be and what the consequences will be. The old Slovenian greeting is: “Stay healthy and young!” Some of us can stay healthy if we're lucky, but we won't be young anymore. Today, such a greeting has become a symbol, for there is almost nothing more than a desire to remain healthy. Dear colleagues and everyone in the hall, I want us all to stay healthy together!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Dušan Šiško has the following word, and Mr Aljaž Kovacič is the last to be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u86	Dearest, thank you so much for your word! Most citizens welcome the proposed measures taken by this government and, with the exception of a few exceptions that are not yet seen in the proposed law, expect the country to help them overcome these times of crisis. In the SNS and I, too, personally support these measures. At the same time, I am a little afraid that some people are already relying too much on the state to save them, and they are not even thinking about doing anything for themselves when this epidemic is over. Some talk as if, after the adoption of this law, Santa Claus or Santa Claus will come to Slovenia if you want to have a gift with three billion in a bag. They do not realize whether they want to realize that this money will have to be returned or earned in one way or another. But it is true that at least once we have filled a billion holes that were even bigger than the one that we will somehow make with this megalaw. The most elegant and fair thing would be to bring those billions that have disappeared after tax havens back to the country, because it is the money of our citizens, which is now urgently needed. But I am so realistic that I know that this Slovenian policy will not really be able to do so. I expect at least one step in this direction from this government, whose leaders have warned so much about the theft of human property. That's what it was all about. Now there are some specific matters. Article 25 provides for the State to reimburse entrepreneurs for the costs of workers who are or are on hold. Everything's fine and fine. I know that many companies are having a hard time waiting for this option, or they've already started sending workers on hold. But I'm very interested in how and who's going to control that money going to what it's meant to be. I have no doubt that Minister Restoration has good intentions and wants to take care of entrepreneurs, especially for hospitality and tourism. But it's from this industry that I hear that some people are formally on hold, and they're still working. The owners agreed to cook food for the Civil Protection, for the homes of the elderly, and so on, and promised the workers a black or hand payment. I really want to know how you're going to take care of order in this area if you can't take care of it under normal circumstances. Otherwise, I would like to ask or point out why the proposal for an intervention measure law does not provide that families with one or two children, I repeat, with one or two children, would receive assistance. I don't know if you're aware that the Slovenian family counts and has one or two children. It follows from this proposal that the Slovenian family is not one who has one or two children. Thus, the Slovenian state will again generously give money to those who have a whole set of children and make the most of it. I don't think you need to talk about who it's flying on. Then you forgot about the disabled who are employed at disability rates and do not have a full salary. You didn't take them into account either. These days, we are grateful to doctors, medical personnel, who are trying to contain the epidemic and deal with this unknown and invisible enemy. More than that, they deserve praise, and they also deserve additional payments. Yeah, the extra payments are due by these doctors. However, I must draw attention to the problems that citizens have at this time if they get sick or their existing disease gets worse. And indeed, I hear from others, even from health personnel, why things are failing other than the E.R. Even taking pictures below is not fast enough, nor is it possible for individuals to do so. It is not hard to imagine what kind of waiting will be like after many doctors have really had to rest. But I also know that luckily for the epidemic, it's not like everyone's helping the teams. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we will make the following proposals for the next draft law on intervention measures: for the first time, the proposal to devote €50 to each Slovenian family child, not only to those with three or more. Secondly, in the next intervention law, funds should also be allocated to disabled persons who are retired for half-time, says they work for four or six hours, while the rest have a disability pension. Thirdly, you have also forgotten those who perform this afternoon's espa in order to enable and settle at least contributions. I think it would be fair for these citizens. Even though they perform the afternoon espas, not least, these afternoon espas also filled the state treasury. And the fourth time. However, I am interested in why they did not take into account and deal with winemakers, which is what Slovenian wine producers and, finally, wine cellars are associated with. They're not mentioned anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Aljaž Kovacič is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today we had a presentation of the law by the President of the Government, which, however, I think was more of a speech than the presentation itself, and although I am not going back to 1991 now, I would point out one thing that has been mentioned several times today, that this law is as difficult as Zujf after the difficulty. And if you'll excuse me, I'd like to briefly tell you what Zuif did to us young people. For the young, Zuyf stole the future, in a way that brought back all the groups over the years, and for the young, the years they lost did not come back. Generations today between 30 and 40 have actually taken the future to get jobs so that they can get a secure future so that they can create families and there is no law that can bring these things back to young people. And when we started preparing this mega-marriage, I warned you on the committee that we had, for the social, that first marriage of yours, that this time we should not forget the young. And the young have, unfortunately, been forgotten again. I'll tell you why. First of all, because you put them in the same group, for example, retired students. Pensioners will continue to have a pension, young people working through student work to survive, now they will not be able to work, and this one-time help will actually help them to survive. I understand that you could not have included everything in this law, so I will not point out in my debate what you have forgotten, although I am surprised that this very singing super group may have forgotten some things or things that I myself will warn about, that I am not an economist or an economist, but I have noticed them, I am surprised that people with such references as you have spoken about them have not noticed, some in fact completely illogical matters. It has already been mentioned with regard to young people. Young people need about 500 euros a month in Slovenia to survive. And again, young people were the biggest victim of this crisis. At the same time, we threw them out of college homes, although some also have permanent residence there. Now, while you said with the measure that they can continue to live there, but we cannot mix student and student homes, because when a student comes to live in a dormitory, he also has a contract that is similar to that of living in his rental apartment. Then they lost their student diet, because when they closed up locals, they couldn't use student subsidised diet. Then they lost their student transportation. So, young people actually lost everything again. On student food and student transport alone, the country will save more than €100 a month according to my quick calculation. So you will now give the student 150 euros and at the same time save at least 100 euros in it. This doctrine of yours, which is written in law, is completely illogical to me, and I don't understand how all these experts could have overlooked it. You wrote down that you will give 150 euros of assistance to a regular student. In this group there were people who had studied most likely a few years ago and did not know that the status of a regular and extraordinary student today meant something completely different than what it meant ten, fifteen years ago. After this exercise, 150 euros will also be given to a student who can earn 10 000 euros today and is regularly employed, as a regular student can also be employed regularly. So you didn't separate what student rights come from student status and what a regular and extraordinary student means. It is said that a regular student can be employed today as an exceptional student, but can be unemployed, and if he is not unemployed or not in an employment institution, he is entitled to student rights, such as student vouchers, student transports or subsidised residences in student homes. And it is completely illogical for me to be someone, as a Member of Parliament, to say that I am regularly employed, but at the same time I am a regular student, and therefore I will get 150 euros from the country. Unfortunately, this is completely illogical to me, and I understand that you didn't want to put some new groups in here, but you could actually fix something so illogical with the amendment. Youth organisations have also announced that there will be major problems in advance with young people's housing, says how they will repay loans, how they will also repay these rental apartments, which many students have. We need to know that especially in Ljubljana there is a problem that many young students do not get to stay in student homes and live in private apartments, which we know is the same price as in the market. Then you completely forgot about young people in the countryside and also about young families. And when the student work system is actually broken down, which also pays for scholarships and is also about to build student homes, it can happen that even when this crisis is over – according to the Prime Minister of the Government, there is no telling when it will be, it can be as many years as he has spoken – it can happen that even when young students return to normal life, they will not be able to work anywhere at all. Not only could we study, but not that we could survive.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u90	Thank you very much. A few questions have been asked, and I'll try to answer them. Zuif was mentioned and what he did to Zuif. That's not Zuif. That's Antisuf. Zyf took it. Antisuf gave it to me. Here I think the comparison of these two laws, or these measures, I will say that the measures are divergent in both laws and I think they are not comparable. [[…]] This is actually not comparable. Once again, Zuif took, reduced his income, and increased his income. Now we can talk about how to make them the most righteous. There will probably be very different opinions here, because I think that each person has a different assessment of what is right. Some common estimates are probably not available in the world and are different between peoples and different cultures and different peoples and so on. But there's no comparison. On the one hand, we give pensioners this law on a scale that shows some social status of pensioners according to income. We can, of course, do the matter by taking into account the entire property in someone, and we will tell them what all the property is and we can go very far, from real estates, movables, art paintings and so on. We're going to complicate this so that we'll probably never be able to untangle it, so it'll be complicated. Of course, from this point of view, the priority here is simplicity. These measures are intervention measures. These measures are expected to end within two months or are expected to last another month, at the most. Let's hope so. Let's hope it lasts only two months. I wish I didn't have to introduce them at all. Because it's an epidemic. These are not measures to correct system laws strategically or now. We can't fix system laws with this. They may be unjust in some area, but then system laws need to be changed. On the one hand, some debaters say that the pensioner scale is unfair, on the other hand, some say that the single allowance of 150 euros is unfair again. So on the one hand, we have a progressive or degressive scale, on the other hand, we have a uniform amount. But once again, one principle that will be adopted here is that the whole thing needs to be done quickly and in an easy way. This is certainly one of the principles. We're talking here about a marriage that I hope will last for a maximum of two months. What happens after these two or three months? I don't know, honourable Members and honourable Members. Like today, no one knows when this epidemic will end. I'd be very happy to know that. There was also a question of financial impact and credit. To some extent, I fully agree on the position of the banks. On the other hand, it amounts to a suspension of the payment of interest on additional weaknesses in banks’ balance sheets, which affects liquidity, which ultimately affects the capital adequacy of banks. As a finance minister, I want to have as stable and robust a system as possible in this country so that interest rates can be as low as possible, so that what has happened in the past at different events when interest has been extremely high. Here I want a partnership between the economy, the country, the banks and the population. And that's where we work. However, I agree that from different angles of view, moral and so on, of course, this can be controversial. Do we want to have a stable financial system in this country? Of course, this is a question. From a moral point of view we can talk from a moral gamble and so on, but sometimes we need to take priorities or solutions where there may be less damage and are more reliable, long-term and short-term. Here is one option, I said, before what dilemmas the Government was, there was an expert group, and here is this decision and once again, for two months these are not systemic measures, and with these measures we cannot solve what is not resolved in systemic measures. We just want to be able to help those who are most affected and help the economy not to fail at this first moment or, I hope, at the last moment in this crisis, to make it easier not to forgive workers, that they will survive, with the desire that when this crisis is over, when the epidemic is over, they will be able to start working immediately. That this crisis in the form of the letter V, which means, once it reaches the bottom, the economy can rise immediately, it will start producing immediately, economic growth will start, consumption will start and so on. It would be much worse if this crisis were in the form of the letter U, which means that this economy would be collected for a very long time. This would probably be in those moments, when or if the economy did not help and businesses would fail, workers and workers would be given employment, there would also be benefits from the state budget, but then, before companies were re-established and so on, employment would take a long time. And here we have this letter U. And, God forbid we get to the letter L where this crisis or this epidemic will last. Before that, decisions had to be made here and here. These decisions, honourable Members and honourable Members, are before you at a given time in order to minimise the impact of the economy, people will be least affected by the epidemic and we will get out of this as soon as possible. And here, of course, I would also draw attention to those articles that speak of the need to prevent the spread of the virus. This is essential for us to get into the V and get out of this crisis. The question was also raised with regard to public institutions. I think at least some of them are included in Article 22. So, of course, this is not true that we would not be fully involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovacic has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u92	Thank you. I certainly agreed that Zuif was taking it, and that's the law he's giving. I wanted to say that Zuif stole the future from the young. And if we do not properly include young people in this law, a new generation of young people will also take up the future. But I wonder if you can answer this case that I gave you. If it makes sense that someone, say, also an MP, if a regular student is now going to get 150 euros in extras as a student? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u94	It doesn't make sense if that happened. Because we can't get individuals out of the law. I expect such a Member to donate these 150 euros and give it to solidarity, because we also need and need solidarity at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u95	Thank you very much. As I see that interest in the debate is still, I am opening a new round of applications. Please sign in. We've got eight interviewees reported. As the first to receive the word of Matthew the Widow, Mr Matjaž the German is to be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Today we are considering the so-called mega anti-korona law, which will help contain the covid-19 epidemic and will primarily mitigate its consequences for citizens and the economy. Yes, we could say another historic moment in which this composition of the National Assembly will be recorded in history in the adoption of public finances legislation. A while ago, not long ago, we were adopting a record budget, almost in all respects and happily sharing money, and today we are adopting a law that will have a thorough impact on it and on public finances. Only for this reason will the government devote up to €3 billion to this law, according to current projections and estimates. Three billion. I would like to stress this at the outset, particularly because we need to be aware of the seriousness, importance and, if not the fate of this time. The nature of intervention legislation is that it responds immediately or as soon as possible to the actual situation, assessments and forecasts applicable to a given area. Now is not the time for fruitless political and political debates. Now it's time for action. Let us prove that we are worthy of voter confidence and are able to meet such challenges in the National Assembly. With constructive debates and cooperation, we need to take intervention measures to curb the expansion of the covid-19 pandemic and, above all, to mitigate the consequences of these measures on the economy and individuals. We don't have time anymore. The retroactivity of the current law will not help us if the proposed measures to combat proliferation are no longer effective. We will lose valuable time, which is extremely important in this situation and we will build up additional health and economic problems. The fact is that the situation in this area is changing from hour to hour, unfortunately only to worse. This shows us all the experiences and forecasts we have so far. According to experts, the summit of the crisis is still waiting for us in the coming weeks. The end of the crisis and the consequences are very uncertain in all areas, not just economic ones. It is now most important to take all necessary measures to combat the pandemic, while at the same time we need to prepare thoroughly for the post-pandemic period. Competents predict a deep recession that could be up to minus 16% of BDB. Minus 16 percent! Therefore, our actions must focus primarily on the functioning of the economy, the preservation of jobs and the care of all affected individuals, especially vulnerable groups. Nothing will help us if we don't have jobs the day after. There is also a lot of bad will, disapproval and mistrust in the implementation of measures to control the spread of covid-19 disease. This is mainly because it is very difficult to agree to any restriction of movement, quarantine, control, the extension of police powers and so on. However, we also need to be aware from the experience of foreign countries that without this we cannot. We will all have to sacrifice part of our rights and freedoms, here I am thinking mainly of the limitation of movement, so that we can defeat the pandemic as soon as possible and return to normal life. I said that yesterday, today, and I'll probably do it again tomorrow. On the other hand, we must congratulate the Government that it has been able to prepare such a wide, complex, systemically far-reaching law in such a short time. In short, in all of us there are many eyes of sick, desperate, exhausted and concerned citizens. I would therefore like to stress once again the importance of the immediate adoption of the law and its application in practice. In conclusion, I would like to thank all those who, in these difficult times, stand out and try to ensure that we are provided, for all, for all necessary medical equipment, services, safety, vital needs, up-to-date and correct public information by journalists and journalists, and for other urgent public services, as well as for all those who go to work, and also those who stay at home. Citizens and citizens, we are all a country and a country of work for you, so thank you and stay healthy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Germany has the following word, and Mr Jani Prednik is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members! Economist Jože P. Damjan warns that failure to act is the most expensive thing and who would disagree with it. Of course, measures to strengthen the economy and maintain jobs and the effectiveness of the measures taken are crucial to restart this cycle not only of life but of the economies in general. We seek solidarity and, above all, consistency in working in politics, we seek unity as the President of the Government initially mentioned, as we knew or used in 1991. “We never claimed to know everything”, said Prime Minister Janez Janša, “we will be as cooperative as possible in the second package”, he continued. Of course, I would not want the first measure to be so bad as to be followed by the second, third and fourth, for I would understand if there were no better measures on the table. Economic associations, Chamber of Commerce and Economics, trade unions, NGOs, self-organised and social groups, opposition - none of us has been good enough to propose or to be able to adopt the proposed conclusions by the Government and the conclusions of all of us and to accept them for themselves. Moreover, even the urgent warnings of the Legislative-Legal Service are disregarded by the Government. The 3 billion that are crucial to preventing, for example, market loss, loss of knowledge to prevent bankruptcy, unemployment or the social distress of citizens and citizens. The European Central Bank offers 753 billion to the European market. Unlike the last economic crisis, the banks are not being saved, I hope this will be the case. It ensures that these 753 billion will be designed to awaken the economy and social security of the people and people of the European Union. The question that we all refer to the minister is how to get this money. Not only up to 753 billion, but also a huge 3 billion for our situation, which we promise the Slovenian economy and citizens. The opposition points to a lack of control within these mechanisms. The opposition points out that these targeted measures are under-targeted, under-strategic. Where are the local communities, where is the strengthening of health care, where are the single mothers, where are the extraordinary students, the penitential workers, the homeless, the disabled? We did not want such a debate, but the aim of the measures opens a wide range of those to whom we should help. Temporary measures can also become permanent and we must avoid this as politicians, especially in view of the latest experience of the last crisis, in the long run. What is a key message from my implementation to the Government is that it is necessary and urgent to draw up guidelines and recommendations for the safe and progressive return of the service sector to service as soon as possible, if possible. Dear Government, my recommendation is to put an end to the restrictions on movement within or between the municipalities, because this measure does not benefit anyone, not health safety, nor the possible acceleration of the functioning of the economy. Dear Government, please follow the medical advice. Do not prevent the representatives of the profession from expressing their views. Prevent an unreasonable decision to disinfect multi-family blocks. Dear Government, for all of us avoid condemning public health. If we ever understand how important this is, we will understand now and do everything we can to ensure that public health is in such a condition that it can help people not only during the crisis but also after it. I would like more solidarity, more pragmatism and, above all, more cooperation and solidarity. It is incomprehensible that in times of such great challenges and crises, the Government did not take any amendments by the opposition into account. I'm sure the two cooperations aren't good. The opposition has actively cooperated in the drafting of these draft laws. We would also like you to take our proposals into account. Ours, economic associations, trade unions, NGOs and, of course, legal and legal services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik has the word to prepare Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u100	Vice President, thank you very much. Dear Government, Members and Members of Parliament! Given that I had the opportunity to sit on the Committee on Finance as a member of the Committee for the entire Tuesday and even Wednesday, I will be brief. I didn't want to answer, but still, my soul won't let me say those five, six sentences. When you took power, you kept telling yourself how to cooperate, cooperate, cooperate. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last two days of this cooperation, I was not even s. On Tuesday on the Finance Committee, I commended the Government for writing this law very quickly. I told you when you write something fast, you probably make a bunch of mistakes. And I had a feeling that then during the procedure in the National Assembly you would listen not necessarily to the opposition, but perhaps, I don't know, the Chamber of Commerce, the Ombudsman, the Information Commissioner, the Chamber of Commerce. Yes, dear coalition, not one, not one amendment itself. And that's what you think of as a collaboration. And we were actually well-intentioned. All the amendments that we have proposed have been proposed to improve the articles in which you have left out certain vulnerable groups or segments of the economy. Nor did the opposition from Tuesday forward aim to mine this law because we are aware that this is actually the most difficult law and is probably urgently needed. And it'll probably take a third, a fourth, a fifth, a sixth. But the signal you're giving with this package, in a way that you're not cooperating, I don't think it's a good signal. In fact, we were extremely constructive in the opposition. We haven't broken anything, and no one has broken this law in one sentence. I would also understand that you are not listening to the opposition, because you are supposed to be some political opponents, but you are not listening to the professional services, nor to the legal and legal services, nor to the Ombudsman, who warns of certain human rights violations, nor to the Chamber of Commerce, who probably knows what the economy itself needs, nor to the Chamber of Commerce. A bunch of amendments have been sent, of course, and then the Members or the Group of Members put them into the procedure because they cannot. After all, if you have so much pride that you did not want to accept the opposition amendments, you would have submitted them yourself, because you did it in fact very unhygienically for the 104th article that we proposed to delete on Tuesday. But no, you have so much pride that you could file it yourself yesterday and confirm your amendment. No problem. It's important that the article is deleted. But we could do that with all the articles, all of them. Once again, we wouldn't need to confirm our amendments, we could file them ourselves and confirm our own. And we, in the opposition, would probably confirm all the articles or any amendments. Look, we've been sitting on the board for 48 hours, we've convinced you, let's do this, please do this, equalize regular and extraordinary students, not miss out on single mothers, single parent families, don't forget families with special needs. Yeah, well, if these are weak-minded suggestions, then I live in some parallel world. This law will be under the roof today, logically, and absolutely it is. And I do lay down on your soul and heart, not on the third package that you will write or that will be written by the Government and will be confirmed here again, not to rule out all these associations, not to rule out the opposition, because at present the times are such that we must not even politically dictate anything else. I'm putting that on your heart. And we'll see very soon whether you've taken this into account or not. This law will be under the roof. In writing all the following packages, I wish the Government as little as possible to shake hands as possible and to write as much happiness as possible, and at least when you write this law on the Government, make as few mistakes as possible, because then we see that in the National Assembly you will not even correct it, except for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word is Nik Prebil, and Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister! In the context of Article 22, the second paragraph here states that those employers who, after their assessment of income in the first half of 2020, will fall by more than 20% are entitled to the aid. And you know who else is down more than 20%? Employees as well as some also have more than 20%, even up to 100. And in these exceptional circumstances that we are facing today in the context of the global pandemic, it is all the more important for the State to take proper care of those who are behind the government's measures, of course, because of the disruption of the spread of the infection, without work or without income. This includes a number of social groups, including young people. Since we have warned you that the proposed law does not leave many, we have taken the position of these and have prepared appropriate amendments and, as we say, you have rejected them. And as said by Comrade Jani, you do not need to follow the opposition's amendments, but at least consider the expertise, taking into account the people who are sending you proposals and alerting you about what is happening in real life. As a representative of this younger generation, I also have to touch one of these groups, and these are young or students. In many of them, this student work is the only source of income, and some, because of the poor conditions at home, even help the family financially and are left without income by closing most of the establishments where the students are working overnight. And now these famous 150 euros, this is allocated only to regular students, and here we are colliding with the principle of equality. By the law of higher education, and you know that, the Minister, they're extraordinary students with regular uniforms. And secondly, to give everyone 150 euros is also completely inadequate, because we know that certain students live alone and pay for both rent, transportation and food and that this number is simply, however we want to help, too low. On the other hand, a lot of students earn a lot of money, perhaps even significantly more than someone who is regularly employed, will also receive this measure. But what is even more controversial, and we have also warned and ignored this, is that a regular student who is regularly employed can receive the same supplement, says he will in fact receive twice the aid, which is, of course, unacceptable, because we must not compare neither students nor students, as we must not equal those who work and those who do not. In this context, I could only draw attention to one more matter that seems extremely important to me and gives some strong message and is not taken into account in this law. See, I have been approached by colleagues from the Chamber of Grandmothers and Health of some Slovenia, there are students there who have been called to work or asked to help in these extraordinary situations both by our institutions such as UKC or, say, the Red Cross of Slovenia. Some work in highly critical areas and are in first contact with the sick or infected, and I personally believe that these students working in these crisis areas in health care should also be helped with a kind of reward that employees who are regularly employed in the healthcare system can receive. Since they do not have a basic salary, such a reward could be shown, I do not know, given the average wage in the public sector, i.e. they work on the same scale and exactly the same conditions, respected, for 5.45 euros per hour. Just to compare, I got this information from my colleagues, in front of some stores, students are now infecting wheelchairs for 12 euros an hour. That's it. I hope that this is a well-intentioned proposal that you will take into account in any other law that is coming. I hope the Government is listening, but above all it hears our proposals, and above all the proposals coming from the ground. I might end up at this point because I'll check in with some other articles. Not everything is bad, but far from this, I would like to say that the shortcomings that could have been addressed, the opposition has tabled the appropriate amendments, which have been completely rejected, from the first to the last. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky, get Yuri Pretty ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. As a science-mathematic technique, I'm going to say that we live in a time of perplexity inequality. We don't even know a variety of variables, we don't know the numbers. Now, as far as the same law is concerned, we have a problem because it essentially changed during the birth. If I understand correctly, the team of professors where she was preparing at the start was first thought of this law as the first liquidity measure for the economy, after, in the meantime, because of political likeness, it changed into some quasi-Socio-Transfer law, where many were forgotten, and then we got some interference from many forgotten economies, economic misunderstandings, and many forgotten about this social transferability and, of course, some crazy involuntary. Then we have a story, if I'm listening today, the referee says correctly, it's not a system law, it can't be, let's say, a crisis action, not to say, a fireman. SMC's Member of the party, this is a system-wide law, Mr President of the Government says, this is chapter one. Wait, can we at least make a deal here? Do you know, at least in Maribor there are goals, goals and illegal positions of three different aggregate states. Can we talk about what's going on here? Then it's said, give up the opposition, stop trying, because there's already another package coming in, if I listen to Jansa yesterday or the day before, and the economists who are supposed to be 3 billion problems again. Wait, 3 billion plus 3 billion, the budget will go down a little bit, that's 60% of the budget. I mean, I don't know, in our household, we're talking about 30 euros more seriously. As this law is being carried out, I fear it will not achieve the effect it should have. If we ask ourselves where these pennies will go, these pennies will go into some transfers, especially to those who do not currently have liquidity problems. They're going to go to the store, they're going to go to what we pay for the bills, they're going to go to the pharmacy where we have, say, the margins at some Lecadol and about 120, 140%. Then one would expect, let's say that we would give a measure to put food prices on hold, for example, March 1st, that the prices of medicines, what we wanted the Social Democrats to propose in one of the amendments that these margins are somehow limited. This will partly come back, of course, through VAT, excise duty and so on. But it seems to me that this is a little too irresponsible, reckless doing, with three billion going too little into, as I say, day after, how to start an economy. And of course, here we have caused some noise when many are upset because they are not understood because they are not allowed to do so, if I say so, and we don't even think about what I should think a lot more about, the state-run and investment and consumption and what Professor Dark and a group of some colleagues in the Saturday Annex have mentioned as the "restructuring" of the economy in crisis situations. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for sending me this script from the Ministry, which may even be overly optimistic. We know very well what Umar writes. Four-fifths of the cash inflow to us are VAT, excise duties, taxes, income, social contributions, some slight taxation of profits. It's all gonna go down. And we talk too little about this state and how we will encourage the economy. In fact, we have transformed into something, in some quasi social, which I agree with Janie Möderndorfer, that this is too levelling, and I am a leftist myself. Prime Minister Klemenčič said: "When you put a child in kindergarten, they take you down to your underwear." There, too, we should look at who really needs these pennies, who, from some of their savings, can overtake these three, four months. Colleagues have already mentioned a lot. I worked in the back office, actually read all the amendments. It's hard now to tell the opposition that we've been stalling. Yesterday, SMC filed a few amendments, and he pulled them up and down. Come on, frankly, three quarters of the opposition amendments were not populist, they were actually amendments that drink water in the direction of this social transfer. You've rejected all of this. And it seems to me that for these three billion you are so little we can now answer why, what we are aiming at them, what will be the results, what will be the gains, how this will affect the economy. At the same time, he promises that we will have to give another three billion. It is likely that some more medium-term social transfers will also come. Minister, let's stop fooling around about V, we're talking about U now, and the responsible policy has to talk about this font not being too stretchy. And of course, yes, unity, but not unity in the way of bipolar interference, that once the government will speak, yes, let's all listen, on the same day the secretaries of the state will beat us up by the press. Unity to me means being able to listen to the diversity of opinion and more politics, not less politics, politics is the public use of the mind and how this law is adopted is for the school textbook, how it is not done. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I just need to say something here. I have already said today what three measures will follow: for liquidity, then for security flexibility and for a way out of the crisis. However, I have not yet heard or had any assessment of any financial situation of these measures. I think some people are without this classic financial effect because they are such a nature. So what the honourable Member Dr. Duck said about the next three billion, I don't have this information and I hear it for the first time. So I can't even say, I don't think they're real and I don't know them.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word Yuri Leprechaun, prepare Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The intervention law is prepared because of the crisis situations in the world and, of course, in Slovenia in Europe. By adopting the law, the government and the coalition wanted to save, at least as much as they wanted, jobs with economic power, self-employed and micro-enterprises, to save the social situation of our people, especially those most vulnerable. In doing so we save the agricultural economy, people with low pensions, then education, education, research, development, culture, the right package, the law very widely addresses all our problems. Personally, it seems important that we help a very wide range of activities, from large employers to single-person companies and self-employed people. We also have a big, strong social component. It has already been said that this law, so this mega-law will descend into the social field, because I think it is also important, because this also solves the problems we have in Slovenia. While individual relationships within them could be different, they are done in the best possible way and are consistent with many actors, not all of them. This is said to be a possible compromise proposal ahead of us and, of course, this proposal is not ideal, but given the urgency and the time component, it is good. I personally strongly support the measure that all benefits that are or will be paid under this law are exempt from possible enforcement and will not be taxed. And social transfers that already exist will not be further accounted for on the basis of these contributions or these benefits, it is said that they are not linked to the already existing situation. Now, for example, it is true that all revenues, regardless of where they came from, go into bankruptcy or into a personal account that can be blocked later. And that's not allowed right now. Given the scope of the law, in my debate, I will limit myself only to the economy and to the social sector, because there will be no time. First of all, I would limit myself mainly to this, to companies that have put their workers on hold. First of all, this law will solve this matter. The State will cover all contributions both for the pension and for health care and the salary paid by the worker, at 80%. Option two. Workers who work and the country will also cover all contributions to pensions and health care, and the net salary will be paid by the employer, and an additional 200 euros will have to be paid by the so-called crisis allowance. Here I would just like to point out that this crisis allowance may need to be tied to the presence of an employee in the workplace. Because it can happen that someone works for two days and someone works for a month and then they both get 200 euros. That's why I think we should tie this to the presence in the workplace. The next thing I will also specify is self-employed, independent entrepreneurs, farmers and similar groups. All contributions will also be paid by the State, and an individual will receive exceptional assistance in March 350 euros and in April and May 700 euros. So we're definitely going across here. As far as this is concerned, I would only point out that the situation is being resolved by the end of May. How it's gonna go after that is hard to say. We all find that after the month of May, we don't know. Some companies, some economic operators solve things by leaving some work behind at this point, so that then the start-up moment can be bigger, that there will not actually be an U-variant as there was a speech, but that there will really be a V-variant, it is said that we will start with zero and they will be able to start working immediately. It's not that simple, but you can if you're thinking this way right now. Finally, given that I am also a member of Desus, I would say that we are extremely pleased that we have found obedience and understanding in the coalition for low-retirement pensioners as well. The law provides for a unique solidarity allowance for pensioners, and this includes all kinds of pensions — old, premature, widowed and family. In particular, I'm going to point out that there will be no qualms. Pensioners who have up to €500 will receive €300; pensioners who have a pension of €501 to €600 will receive €230; pensioners and pensioners who have more than €600 to €700 will receive €130 of this supplement. The measures proposed must be swift, efficient and targeted at all parts of society. The coalition and the government want to do just that. There are also other or even third legislative measures that will partially remedy the shortcomings of this law. I believe that the next law will take much more into account the opposition's proposals, which are or will be constructive. Some have already been and are constructive. So I want us all to have a lot of health and all the good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word is Robert Polnar. Get Jure Ferjan ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Slovenian state organises defence for the period of pandemic shock. The creators of these measures understand the nature of the current crisis, which is somewhat compared to the euro crisis ten years ago. Today, as at that time, it is not the problem of businesses and households that lacks liquidity, but rather the solvency crisis. Therefore, in order to halt the crisis, governments must go to the end of the past unprecedented fiscal expansion measures. But the question is, where to? As far as economic solutions are concerned, the word "do whatever is necessary" prevails at this time. But we have to ask ourselves if we have the ability to do so. The most developed countries promise to use Friedman's method of throwing money out of a helicopter, in other words, huge sums from the primary emissions that should revive the economy. Of the 120 approved, the European Central Bank has announced an additional €750 billion to buy out Member States' debts. In reality, this means that it will not prevent headless new public debt. Nobody knows how the pandemic will move in the future. Just as it is completely uncertain, how and how this mountain will affect the strengthening of economic processes, or may lead to financial chaos in the world. We don't want to invent anything new. It's also one of the axioms that's up to date. We need to use existing mechanisms and act immediately. That's exactly what the biggest problem can be. The existing mechanisms may not produce results because what we are facing today is by no means a normal crisis. The resounding messages and impressive numbers cover the traps behind which this potential irrelevance and lack of agreed or coordinated policies can be concealed. The financial bomb, which weighs so much and so many billions of euros, can also be turned around in a closer examination of the programmes. And then finally we find out that it's not actually a bomb, but it's more of a water gun. If we take all possible risks into account, then we must always bear in mind that the measures may not be sufficient at all. That's why we need heavy weapons. How and how difficult we will begin to understand only when we acknowledge that the rules we have played so far are no longer in force. Ladies and gentlemen, for example, at the announcement of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development this year and next year, we can peacefully forget about the part where they talk about forecasts of gross domestic product growth. Estimates of the level of public debt in the share of gross domestic product have become pointless. We are approaching or will face the reality of the budgetary deficits, which will increase and the gross domestic product will decrease. In a physical struggle to stop the spread of the virus, and in an economic fight to prevent a financial disaster, what has been systematically rejected and neglected for many years is necessary, and this is planning. In the era of the free market and the belief that market mechanisms and minimum government interventions are a cure for any problem, this function of the state administration is virtually dead, so we need to activate all the functions of the state. When necessary, orders should be issued, not just recommendations for changing behaviour. Whether anyone likes it or not, we will end up with an economy that will need important support from the state and with a government that will have control over the private sector and will make sure that everyone gets at least a living. Once all this is over, capitalism, as we know it today, will no longer be known, as today will not be able to return to its previous normal. The value of the measures of the law that we are considering today is €3 billion and €100 million. The measures, their authors and those who advocate these measures, we have earned the righteous wrath of those sensitive souls who feel the pain of the affected as their own or perhaps even stronger. An uncompromising request was put in place. Everyone and everyone in the country is demanding anything. However, such uncompromising requirements must also have a fig leaf. One of such fig leaves, which is most easily accessible, is an insight into the deposits of Slovenian business banks. At the end of 2019, households were worth 20 billion and 365 million. The role of companies is 6 billion and 758 million. In 2019, according to 2018, household deposits increased by a billion and 632 million. The role of companies is €970 million. It's only in one year. It is true that it is not possible to obtain a structure for this data. And it is also true that the structure of the general image can also substantially change or corrupt. But it is certain that three months ago in Slovenian business banks there were more than €27 billion in deposits from households and businesses, for example, last year's GDP in Slovenia was €48 billion, which means more than half of GDP. Today we face an apocalypse where everyone says they can't survive. Ladies and gentlemen, I just don't believe an apocalyptic with fat bellies. An epidemic of the crown of the virus also caused an eruption of fear. In making decisions, however, fear plays a dominant role. Employees in companies fear that extraordinary measures caused by the pandemic will become a rule and will result in a further loss of job reliability in the face of constant post-return pressures. Almost everyone who is forced to work from home today is afraid that this will become a practice that means reducing income at very late hours. Citizens fear that the pandemic will have a lasting negative impact on their lifestyle. Every reasonable person has to wonder how we got in this position, why we're here where we are. Every reasonable person also knows the answer to this question. But now is probably not the time to elaborate on this answer. However, it is important to highlight the profitable co-existence of the economy and the neo-liberal concept of economic success, which is based on capable exploitation of emotional factors, fear and greed. Fear is directed to the labour force and greed to the capital owners. About the consequences of this policy, which has prevailed in the world, we live almost all of us, regardless of the size of the country and regardless of its social arrangements. This also works for us in Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, anything we face in the coming months is unknown to us once again. The fact is that we will have to act in a crisis manner quickly and decisively. In doing so, I personally propose that we deal with all future problems with reason and understanding. In itself, provocations and infertile arguments will not solve any of the pressing problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The word is "Jura Ferrian." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, the rest of you are present and all those who accompany us at the 33rd extraordinary session. We have before us a complex law, a law that we have been discussing for four hours today, and a law that we have heard a lot about on the Finance Committee in the past two days, and a lot of constructive things about what this law does not yet bring, what this law should contain, what this law has missed out on. But it is good to hear and stress and tell people what this law brings. This law provides assistance to the Slovenian economy, assistance to citizens and citizens amounting to €3 billion. Your Honor! You know we're passing the law on an emergency basis, and you know it's an intervention law. You also know what has happened in our country over the past few weeks, and you know that the new government has taken over the exercise on March 13th, and today we are April 2nd. You know all that. And citizens and citizens know that. Today there has also been a talk about the signal of the government and, last but not least, we Members and Members of the National Assembly are giving ourselves to these laws. We give a signal, or first it has been given by the government, that it is able, capable and ready to respond quickly and to prepare concrete measures. Today we are discussing the second package of measures or antikronapack number 1. It is right that opinions are shared, it is right for each person to express his or her views, to express his or her concerns and proposals after all, and of course we are also aware that, as has been said today in the introduction by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, further measures will be followed. This month will be followed by the next antikronapack number 2 and it will almost certainly not be the last in the sequence of this sequel. Why is it important that we act quickly? Because the Coronavirus itself, the epidemic itself, has time to take measures and help people with time is not or is every day, every hour, every moment is precious. The government responded quickly to current developments. Today we have, and even in the past, had before us a complex material, a complex law that touches on many groups most in need of assistance, from pensioners, self-employed, students and those who, due to the consequences of the epidemic, have to stay at home for such and other reasons, and allows the reward of those who work in their daily profession to infuse this epidemic so that those who get sick or get sick will receive adequate and adequate and immediate care. So allow me to thank, on my behalf, all those who do anything daily to ensure that the Corona virus epidemic in Slovenia is infested as soon as possible. Thank you to the doctors, thank you to the nurses, thank the police, the military, civil protection, thank you to the municipalities or mayors and to the many volunteers who are active at various levels, contribute their share and help. Thank you to the humanitarian organizations. Thank you, of course, also to all journalists and journalists who report on the measures correctly on the situation. Thank you to the government. Thank you, after all, to all of you, Members and Members of Parliament, who have read the law that you have proposed. Thank you to all citizens and citizens who respect the decisions, instructions, laws and conduct themselves responsibly and accountable to others. Let me also say that it is right that certain opinions have been expressed that call for the amendment of the law. But marriage needs to be seen as a whole. The law also has a certain analysis, a certain system that has been drawn up by the Government. Further measures, as stated by the Government, offer a deadline not only to the opposition, but also offers a deadline for all citizens and citizens who have their proposals to submit them, both to the economy and to all others. This is an important signal, this is an important message. Each such step ahead of us is crucial whether the epidemic will be stopped as soon as possible or whether the situation will last and continue, for no one knows, regrettably, no one knows how long this epidemic will last and what we are all waiting for after the end of the epidemic. However, we can be sure that the less the consequences will continue as soon as the epidemic is overtaken. It can wait for us, even the nature of the economic cycle is such that after the conjuncture we will also fall and crisis, and this will certainly happen in some period ahead of us, so it is important that we also manage to fight only the situation as quickly as possible and then return to those old runaway rails that will help the Slovenian economy and thus to all citizens and citizens. We've heard that a lot in the last few days, but I don't think it's enough. The measures they take in themselves are not enough if we do not stick to them consistently. It's up to each of us to help make a contribution to that piece of mosaic to defeat this crisis. This crisis has affected not only Slovenia, not only Europe, but the whole world. And it is important, we see what is happening at European level, we see that much needs to be done. And I believe in this government, and I also believe in this national council, that it will have wisdom and support the laws that are before us. As we are told, there will be a lot of decisions ahead of us that will need thought, wisdom, and that each of us will contribute our share and thus help people. Your Honor! Allow me to conclude my first speech as a member of the House of Slovenian Democracy with the thought or more with a desire for cooperation, as demonstrated by the Government, which consists of four different coalition parties, which take into account the proposals made by the public, the proposals of those who are not later directly involved in this law, that we will also be able to cooperate here in this National Assembly among all parliamentary groups in order to enable the coalition and the opposition to participate. Now I see that first there, on the other hand, they're nodding a little bit, now they're clapping, I think it's right that we can talk, we know how to listen and we know how to cooperate. Of course, circumstances must be taken into account and it is absolutely right to give a clear signal that laws are adopted quickly. I believe and am confident, as has been said, that all matters, all the groups that are urgently involved in these government measures, including for all that is possible, will be included in the next actions. Your Honor! In the coming days, weeks, months, there will be decisions before us. Let all of you also be accompanied by this idea of cooperation, because this is the only way to instill the epidemic, help the Slovenian economy and, above all, help citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I see it's an interest and I'm asking you to report it. It's nine. The first has the word Predrag Baković, to prepare the mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I'm so glad I'm first in line. I'll say so, the law is extraordinary, and it was written in relatively unusual and abnormal circumstances and conditions. Certain shortcomings are expected to arise in this law, which should, in fact, be remedied, supplemented, withdrawn, whatever we call them. However, this has not actually happened, and here I find it very difficult to understand the words of cooperation, the time offered and these things, because to all the amendments the opposition has written that neither one of them was the one who would be acceptable to the coalition is also unusual to me. There's a lot of confusion left. There's been a lot about this speech. In fact, I cannot go by again without exposing certain things, including the second part of the follow-up that the President of the Government has been talking about. I don't believe this famous interest on credit will be settled. And once again, I'm reminding you of things, that is, someone who's been credited for 10 years, and if we take the situation that this will take about six months, that is, six months, and at that time, he won't pay off these monthly annuity, and the interest will run. Finally, this loan, which should last 10 years, will be repaid to the last balance and, of course, will pay interest for 10 years and 6 months. In fact, here again are the banks that get back. And I don't think that's acceptable. Furthermore, we discussed espies a lot. We have problems because, for example, someone is 80% espa and 20% is regularly employed and will not be assisted. The same is true of independent entrepreneurs who carry out their afternoon activities as a foreign profession and so on. The law is also unclear as to the allowance for work in so-called dangerous situations. I think that we should not allow the chairpersons themselves in some arbitrary way without a legal basis to decide who will receive an allowance for working in dangerous situations and who will not. I find it unfair and absurd that some health workers would not get an allowance because they simply have to go to work and are at every turn at risk. That is why I would also appeal here to those who will define or share these supplements in some way, if you want them to do so in a way that they will not allow further injustices and divisions or differences. I will also touch a little on the downsizing of salaries for officials by 30%. Let me just say that I have no problem getting my pay cut, and I accept that. However, it would be much better to accept this in some normal circumstances. If we look at the following events as to how this happened, we can see that this happened after the ministers and state secretaries assigned higher grades of payment. And, clearly, because of the criticism that has taken place and the pressure of the media, there has been a situation where the salaries of the officials will fall by 30%. In this case, I can understand this more than some disciplinary measure or punishment than some attempt of solidarity. I will take this as an attempt of solidarity to reduce when ministers and state secretaries drop these payment classes to the previous level and then bring them all down by 30%. And I really don't have a problem with that. However, I would also like to touch the famous 103rd and former 104th articles, which give the police certain powers. I should be honest with you that I myself did not have major problems with these two articles, and I have also said this frankly in my Group of Members. I understand their purpose and the context of why they were proposed. But no matter how anyone thinks about these articles, just think when those institutions that need to be heard and respected because of their professional competences or, to say the least, some democratic authority come forward. And these are the Ombudsman, the Information Officer and, last but not least, the Legal and Legal Service and certain lawyers. These have confirmed that these provisions are controversial. And it is because of them, regardless of how I think about these articles myself, that these two articles should withdraw from the proposal of this law. As we know, GPS monitoring has withdrawn via mobile devices and certain powers remain. As I have already said, I have no problem with them myself, but it is necessary to take into account here those who are concerned that there is no violation of the right, that the situation is dying in some normal way despite the extraordinary circumstances. Actually, there's still a lot to talk about. All I care about is that the second series of this sequel, which has been said, will not take care of those who have fallen out of this first package. But if he does, you'll give me a pleasant surprise, and I'll be happy, and I'll make that clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Reich, prepare the mag. Battle Murschich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Today, we are adopting legislation that mitigates the consequences of the loss of economic activity, which is due to the unforeseeable spread of the coronary virus. We have, of course, shown in the Sab party that we are a constructive opposition and we also have our own proposals. However, we are, as you know, very great advocates of public quality and accessible public education. That is why we are very pleased in this light. Informal information that the Constitutional Court has made it clear that there must be no equal funding for public and private education. In this light, I would especially like to highlight our weakest in the school system — students, students with subsidized diets. Even those students and students who are now studying remotely and who do not have a computer or an internet connection. These are also things the government needs to think about. These are the things the government must ensure. In this light, it must be made clear that these are the main advantages of public education – that education is accessible to all children under equal conditions, irrespective of their social status. That is why we especially appeal to the government to keep this vulnerable group in mind. The second group, which is very important to us, are, of course, pensioners. We are very concerned about the presence of Desus in this government coalition. Remember, only in parliamentary history did more than 25 thousand pensioners fall when Desus was in this government coalition. The Constitutional Court has decided that this is unconstitutional. The government of Alenka Bratusek has corrected this injustice, so we make it clear on this occasion that we will be vigilant not to let such a thing happen again. We are pleased, however, that the government, on the basis of the reaction of the SAB and the other opposition, has given the pensioners a solidarity allowance of three levels. Let me stress that the pensioners will certainly share this solidarity allowance unselfishly with their children and grandchildren who will wait at home for work or, unfortunately, lose their jobs. It is therefore very important that we have independent parliamentary supervision over these measures, over which we are adopting this law today. Remember, it's about spending 3 billion euros in a very short time. The Minister of Finance made it clear yesterday that due to the urgency of the measures and the necessary update in the implementation of the first control, the control will walk slightly and that it will go to a large extent to be trusted and that only then will there be controls on the use of funds. Therefore, we believe that the provision of independent control over the use of these funds, additional controls due to quantity and volume, is very urgent. I would also like to say that at the SAB party we will also look forward to ensuring that the rights of the most vulnerable in our society are not violated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The Replica has Franz Jursha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. I have to replicate my fellow Reich primarily because I want to remind him. It is true that we were in the government of John Janša at the time. It's true that Zuif was one of them. True, some pensions have also fallen. But it's also true that if you weren't in the government with Alenka Bratušek, Cuffer would cut our pensions by 10%. That was the key problem. But it didn't happen because of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Let's get the mags ready. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u120	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Crown Epidemic has done a great deal of damage, and we've got a bigger one waiting for it. First, this crown occurred in health care, where there will be immense damage, then in the economy. Citizens and citizens will also suffer enormous harm. Therefore, intervention measures in this area are, of course, necessary and, as the Minister has said, should be swift and simple. This mega-legislature is referred to in 111 articles. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was on 33 pages. It summed up as many as 84 articles. The coalition has only drafted amendments to 20 articles, which means that almost half of these amendments have been overtaken by the Legislative and Legal Service, which many times the current coalition has also stressed in its previous reference and read us as a coalition. That's why it pisses me off, because a lot of things that the Law-Legal Service had warned about were following in the right direction, but we weren't heard. The opposition has also been preparing amendments to improve this bill because we want to include as many people as possible, citizens and citizens in this bill. But we haven't been heard from here either. After two days, after two sessions of the Finance Committee, all the opposition's amendments were transported. This makes me extremely sad, which means that citizens and citizens will be deprived because they can no longer wait for certain things. Of course, I would like once again to thank the Legal and Legislative Service, which in record time, has prepared a very large opinion within 24 hours. I believe that if we had more time, we would write it in more detail and be even more concerned. But let's move on. Members of Parliament have received very many comments on all our e-mails, phones, everything has burned out in recent times, and so there was also a group in the Group of Social Democrats. We also included Members of Parliament and worked in the background to prepare these amendments, with which we tried to convince the coalition that we have heard and that our proposals are in the right place. But it wasn't like that. Nevertheless, thanks go to the government that has drawn up this extensive law. I believe that a great deal of work has been involved in this, but we would really expect the opposition to be heard as well. Most of the smaller espies had to close down their shops, most of them listed as innkeepers, hairdressers, cosmetics, and masseuse owners are now out of work. On the other hand, we also have large economic operators after more than 50 employees working smoothly behind the belt in three shifts. Workers had to stay in the work process and were not provided with protective equipment in the first part. Only after a good 14 days of government action has the process begun to adapt to the new requirements. I therefore wonder whether these people in companies where production, I stress, will not be necessary for life and will be entitled to an allowance in emergency situations. Because they were exposed to this virus, as a result, when they were exposed to it, family members were also exposed to this virus, and in a number of companies it happened that then certain people had to go into quarantine and are now at a disadvantage because they had to be at home. The measures addressed by this law are a step in the right direction, but we should be really careful to capture all vulnerable groups by means of a crisis supplement. In the law, the crisis allowance is given to pensioners, students, recipients of financial social assistance, but I have found that 606 foster parents in the Republic of Slovenia who do noble work are forgotten, care for children who are not theirs, which required housing. There are 840 children in foster care. They are getting some kind of supplement, but this supplement is extremely, extremely small, less than one cash social assistance, and I believe that these parents really deserve this crisis allowance too. Other vulnerable groups were also excluded: exceptional students, part of disabled pensioners, nicknames, single mother. Today, many of them are also asking themselves, for their relatives have also lost their jobs, where we will get money, where we will provide funds for our children’s education. When we speak today stay at home, the gesture Stay at home brings a lot of problems and a lot of mental problems. Of course, thanks go to this place for all the measures that we take to stick to this and most people stick to this gesture Stay at home. But there are individuals who bypass it and somehow expose themselves. If you'll excuse me, because I mentioned that the minister stressed that procedures must be quick and simple. Entrepreneurs wonder how they will meet the conditions for aid under this law, fear of returning aid, how they will prove lower revenues after the dead months, when the cross-border tax law will be to pay taxes, non-life criteria are to wait for work, whether the state will provide payment within eight days, or whether we have so much resources. Also in public health institutions, the question is where will they get liquidity to settle personal incomes for their workers. Here's a million questions and one question. When the crisis is over, I believe we will have more problems than we have today. Finally, I believe that it will happen that the richer will be even richer after this crisis. But I certainly don't want to. Therefore, Minister, this second set that is being prepared, which you are talking about, which is supposed to cover liquidity in companies, the flexibility that you have mentioned, look at all the amendments that we have put in place in the opposition, check and include them in this third megacoronapack, or what we will already call it, that those people who urgently need that money now, so that they can live, too, will be taken care of. Once again, stay home and stay healthy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I would like to answer some of the questions that have been asked here. You mentioned the shorter payment period that public institutions have, the state is supposed to pay within eight days. Yeah, hospitals will be paying in eight days, too. This will provide the budget. That's the priority of that government. The priority of this government is also to ensure health for all people, to ensure adequate care and to ensure that such payments are made in this connection. If the state is actually going to pay everyone within eight days, we must also be aware that patients are getting certain equipment, such as masks, like everyone else, and if they get them within eight days, then the patients will also be competitive with payment deadlines. This means that they will actually be able to get the equipment directly and they will not have to look for some intermediate companies. With this, I hope that they will be more competitive and that they will be able to get quality equipment quickly when they are paid. We still need to separate the private sector a little here. The state cannot interfere with the private sector in the sense that it is now determining what it is paying for. But the state will actually give that employer 200 euros for the employee. This is also an incentive in this direction to work. Of course, anyone can say if you do, and then my employer won't pay for it. I think that most employers who are competitive today are on the global market, which also has this business culture to give these 200 euros to workers. I think so. Of course it may not be. We'll probably read where it isn't, but it's only right to read about it, because there's nothing wrong with it. That's one thing. However, the State cannot simply order private individuals in this direction. They're security guards. For companies, there are also guardians in the law, Article 99 of the Law provides that all those undertakings which will receive contributions from the State have to repay these refunds if they pay profits or dividends if they are shareholders, if they increase the remuneration of the management if they pay the prizes. They'll have to return that later. We cannot make the system at this time, which will be fast and simple on one hand, and very much so to say, legal on the basis of some administrative procedure where the beneficiary has to make an application, then he will be given a decision and will be able to appeal on the basis of a decision. In short, this whole bike. That's too long. Here, the beneficiaries – natural persons will submit their application. There are conditions within which, for example, all taxes are paid, which is one of the conditions. See, if he can't pay the tax, he can demand a tax deferment and he will have paid taxes, that's considered, and on the basis of the application, the beneficiary will get the money. However, it will then be checked if there has been a false statement here, if it has not been justified and so on. Not to say now that it will come to mind, something will also look at who it is, that no one will now think that someone who gives a false name will just get it. I'm talking about this direct rapid control. You cannot create a system where you give the possibility to write a decision within 30 days and the appeal for 30 days and the whole administrative procedure, then this aid will be recognized or perhaps not at all. The system is built on this. The system will be complemented, as has already been said today, and in this way I think it is the most efficient and simple system for people.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Meira Hot, get Violet Tomic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting on my behalf as well! I would like to refer a little bit to my colleague Muršič and to the implementation of my colleague Ferjan a little earlier with regard to the cooperation itself. I think we as the opposition have really proved ourselves in the context of being willing to cooperate. We have prepared amendments that were not just some populist but amendments that had content, scope and that were really targeted as targeted measures to help individual groups. We drew attention to the vulnerable groups that had been released from the draft law and added their proposals. Why? So that really in these extremely difficult moments, in this historic time, the whole world is facing for the first time in its life, that we know how to deal with it, that we know how to help, that we know how to overcome it. The government has promised that the law it will draw up, this first anti-Korona package, will actually target those who need the most help. We have now heard from you, Madam Minister, that you absolutely do not support the procedures in which decisions and complaints would be issued and so on, and I also agree that now are not the moments in which we could complicate the additional administrative procedure. But the point is, it's different. The point is that this draft law is already so complicated, in certain parts of itself comes to mind that today you have a lot of forums where various self-employed people ask themselves what right they have, whether the employees will actually be entitled to help or not, who will have to return aid tomorrow, what does this 20% income mean in the second half, that I do not tell them what direction they are given about the rise in the second half of the year. On the other hand, we know that in Germany, for example, it is enough to fill out the form online and to read that within five days, they have the financial resources directly in the account. I have personally expected of you, because you, as a client, have always stressed that we are out of order, I agree, we have plenty of laws, we lose ourselves in all these laws, from you, if I expected anything, I expected you to set up a clear, logical law that everyone can read and know what rights follow from it. As lawyers, unfortunately, I have to say that this marriage doesn't make sense, let alone to someone who isn't in the profession. I don't think that's right right at this point because there's some mistrust in the public eye again. Why do I say "untrust"? You know how many espouses have been shut down because they didn't trust the country to come to their aid. They were concerned about how they would pay for their contributions because two weeks ago we were talking about not letting our contributions go at all, but that it was possible to postpone more. It's great that we've moved on here and it's going to be forgiven, but there are so many conditions that they're once again wondering whether or not we're actually going to forgive everyone. Our logic in writing the amendments to the proposals has always been to face the health crisis and we need a strong state intervention. Indeed, the country must actively, proactively enter the market and actively assist those directly affected by the crisis. Why? So that even after the epidemic, we can still count on some reboot to go on. Because something's gonna have to happen after the epidemic. If today does not actively help those key most affected, the situation will worsen a hundred times after the epidemic. And if we are really going to help today as it should be, then we can count on the possible consequences to be slightly lower after the epidemic itself. The logic should be, the one who had to stop working overnight because of the government decree should be entitled to help. If this legal person or independent entrepreneur has not been entitled to this, it may be possible to compare the balance sheets for 2020 in 2021 and, after a compensatory scheme we have also proposed, a higher amount of aid is coming back in 2020 or it may even be too low. So the point is that today should be the help, the papers later. As I read this law more and more, I feel that in the end, the vast majority of those who should be justified will unfortunately not receive help. I think we should really strive to put in place an extremely simple procedure to help those who really need help today. To ensure that independent entrepreneurs who, due to the interruption of all types of orders and services, had to stop hosting, various service activities, hairdressing and so on, who may no longer have orders for creative ones, as had been paid by suppliers, are not excluded on the basis that they have not paid all the contributions. For we know that independent entrepreneurs are the nicknames of those who are most victims of payment indiscipline. So why impose additional conditions and thus exclude those who should be justified? In my opinion, it must indeed be the one who, directly due to the government's decision, stopped operating overnight. It should be a very simple logic here. And we've rediscovered the law. It seems to me that this law was not written by you, of course, not you, but again by some officials, who then added their additional terms, which is why tomorrow, when an individual will give his role, would be a hundred reasons why he will not be granted it. And I don't think that's what you want, not us. I think we all have a common desire, which is: to actively help today, to solve what to do, to help really as much as possible a group of individuals, businesses, not to determine whether they are societies, institutions, etc., to really help all those affected by the epidemic. I am sorry that you did not listen to our proposals that you did not accept them, and this is a problem in cooperation. Cooperation is a two-way trip. It means we're proposing something, and you're taking something. It is not that we propose and propose and propose, but that all the priorities are rejected because it comes from the opposition. Then this is no longer a cooperation. I'm so sorry. I was hoping it would be different, but for once, there is no such ambiguity in this national council. I'm very sorry you didn't accept that you didn't simplify these procedures. People expected that. I hope that the third package will indeed come to fruition and that we will all be heard, especially those groups that have written to you and have legitimate demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić has the word to prepare for Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief. Let me express myself as a long-standing cultural worker and for over 30 years I have been a member of the Association of Dramatic Artists, currently leading the Committee on Culture, and I have here to express my resentment on behalf of all cultures, because this law has completely forgotten them, erased them, and, as the President of the Government has said, this law is not perfect. Therefore, the moment we got him in our hands, in the opposition and in our country in Levica, we took our work very seriously and responsibly to correct what the government might not have been able to see or recognize as important. We immediately listened to various associations, societies, NGOs, also the opinions of the Legal and Legal Service, espams, individuals who are extremely concerned about how they will pay rents, bills, how they will feed children. What happened? It happened that the coalition did not accept any of the amendments we had drafted in the opposition. That's why it sounds like a cynicism debate between a young colleague, a new member of the SDS, who is talking about cooperation. We were willing to cooperate. We are aware that the situation is critical and that we should step together. That's what we're supposed to do. That is why I also reject all the insinuations that we are guilty of anything in the opposition, if we did not just nod, but we wanted to participate. This also encourages various threats to members of the opposition, which I think is totally unacceptable. Culture suffered in the crisis in 2008, when the financial crisis was the largest incision. And this injustice has never been rectified. Culturers have lived and today we have addressed the problem of self-employed people in culture who do not have any labour rights, the protection of children, hospitals for culturers, then people with shared status who are partly at home for the protection of children. We also referred to Article 61, compensation for large families. What about other families, small ones, or single - parent families? This article is totally discriminatory. We also referred to the conditions of emergency assistance for self-employed persons in order to take a longer period, not just one month and so on, not to mention again and again. Nothing. Many people fear how they will survive and how they will survive their family. Let me remind you that during quarantine, you all use the highest level of cultural services. While we're at home, you're watching the work of players, directors, musicians, writers, translators and videos, and you could still list. But that seems to you to be self-evident. These people work, they get paid, they pay taxes and, of course, they have to be addressed as all the other workers and others. I'll keep reminding myself of that. My disappointment is extraordinary, because here we listen as if we're in a state of war. We have a health crisis, we have no war, please! The Prime Minister of the Government, in this seat where you now sit, the distinguished minister, spoke of a hybrid war, a cyber threat. You said earlier that the government is concerned – citizens are still concerned. You're saying you want to stop the spread of the epidemic. Yeah, but then why are you offering more repression instead of testing and protective equipment? On the one hand, people should not walk through the fresh air, which is, of course, healthy for the respiratory and mental systems. We all know how domestic violence has increased at a time when people are socially at risk, without work, and then there is violence against children and women. And we talk like we're in 1990. I would remind you that it is the task of the opposition to worry about the use of public funds, because public funds must by no means go into a private pocket. You are the custodian of the largest budget in the history of Slovenia and it is the task of the opposition to ensure that this goes in the public good. Therefore, take all our comments in good faith. Now you are funding employers, of course, and you think the market will fix everything. This is this neoliberal mantra, but the market no longer exists. And after this Coronavirus crisis, it will never be the way it was. Therefore, it is necessary to reprogram your brain and start thinking differently. You swore an oath to the Constitution, so I urge you to respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Jure Ferjan has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u128	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll be very brief. I absolutely agree that cooperation is based on two or more sides. However, something about this also showed yesterday's vote on the Committee on Finance – 11 of us were in favour of the law, 2 against and the others did not vote. However, I am sure, as has been said several times before, that I myself have said in my previous implementation that the proposals you have made in both the opposition and other stakeholders will be taken into account in the next or subsequent measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u129	Thank you very much. There's a minister's word, mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I will explain once again about simplicity and how the law works when you say it is complicated and complicated and so on. Article 34 – The self-employed are entitled to an income of €350 per month in March and €700 per month in April and €700 per month in May 2020. To do this, they must write a statement stating that they are affected by the coronary virus. Those who have closed their activities because of the municipal or state decree that they are unable to do business are clearly clear in advance, so that there are no problems here at all. Here they then have the criteria for the reduction of revenues, which occurred in relation to February and compared to April and May. It is an invoiced realization, two numbers compare and find out and n give a statement. If that is not true, then they will actually return if they have not been justified, so if these revenues have not fallen. And these self-employed people include everything. They include all espies, if you want, regardless of whether they work on the basis of culture, sport, coaching, hairdressing, any activity. Here you have mentioned, Mrs Meira Hot, that when he gives the part, he will not be granted. He's not gonna play the part, he's gonna make a statement, and he's gonna get the money. Then it will be proven whether it is right or wrong. And in one year — in 2021. I just wanted to point out that I can't agree with you that something is complicated here and that there will be some kind of approval and so on. She's not here. I've only told you one case. I don't have much time.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The replica has Violet Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u132	Dear Minister, I must answer you that your answer at this moment shows a complete ignorance of the situation. So I ask you to listen – show me the papers as much as you want – February is not merodan. Self-employed people don't get monthly payments. Imagine a painter doing an exhibition once every few years. Then he sells some pictures and no February helps him. Imagine the film makers who've been filming the movie for months. February, please! We have asked in the amendments to take at least one year's average for self-employed people who work in professions that are not fortunate enough to get a transfer to their account every fifth. But maybe once a year. So please listen to the people who live this fate, because they will tell you how things are. I understand that we all don't know everything, but that's why we're sitting in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u133	The replica has a mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u134	Thank you. It will be very similar, as colleague Tomić points out, but perhaps from another point of view. A lot of espei is tourist guides, which are considered to be the dead month in February, so basically they have the lowest income at the annual level. It would then be logical to look at the annual level in a comparative way. Not to mention that Ipes has all the data anyway. And it's complicated for me because a lot of people will not, as you said, make statements because they will say, "They'll compare me to a month in which I can't work anyway." Therefore, in this context, you do not take into account the seasonal character at all. The tourist guides would mostly work in March, April, and therefore we cannot compare with February. Such a person will not be able to make a statement at all or, in the end, will not be entitled to the compensation he should have received. If this is a substitute for some help to survive these basic months, then it should be given to all those who were directly prevented from doing business because of the outbreak, under certain normal conditions, not under conditions which would not be sufficient for them. In this context, this is contradictory and difficult to prove to me. And here I really wish we could get closer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u136	Thank you very much for these suggestions. We'll look into it. But it's definitely not about the payments here. This is about invoices. It's completely different than just the payment. And here I would say to you that I cannot imagine that for a tourist guide there would be traffic in April – this month, when we are in the midst of an epidemic, bigger than any other month. That's hard for me to imagine today.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u137	The word is Marijan Pojbič. Get Elena Zavadlav Ushaj ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First, let's get a few things straight. Look, if we're talking about those who gave hope to people, it's John Janša's government. These are the ministers, these are the parliamentary groups that are colorful, but they work in the interest of the Slovenes and the Slovenians. This seems to me the most important thing at this point in time to understand. At the moment, there are no reds, greens, blues in this country, but there is a government coalition and opposition. I am convinced that in these ten days, or how many days she has been here, this government has done an enormous amount. It's extraordinary. It's extremely big. It's huge. In ten days, bringing such an extensive marriage to the table under such circumstances is indeed one great thing. The vast majority of citizens and citizens support this government and its actions. We have no problem, as I have spoken many times in this national assembly when it comes to cooperation. Now I'm only coming back a few days ago. Where are you, the coalition, the former government? Tell me what the cooperation was like. But now you've been in opposition for ten days and you're attacking this government, which has brought the first law on the agenda in such a short time, and this is such an important law. And what I want to stress most now is: no government has been able to do what this government has done, this coalition, together with the Prime Minister, ministers and also Andre Shirtzle, who is sitting here between us now, to link most of those experts in the country that are most valued, regardless of political affiliation. And this package was designed by these experts. This package, which you have today on the table, has been developed by experts from all parties, all colors, recognized experts in this country. They had no problem helping out for the interests of our citizens and citizens of the government, led by SDS President Janez Janša. They had no problem because they understood that it was the common interest of this country, that it was the interest of every individual living in that country. First to last. That you cannot adopt a law that is far - reaching and that could solve all problems — clearly, such a law simply cannot be adopted. However, if such experts from all parties have prepared this law as they have prepared it, then I am convinced that this is the best solution in the circumstances. And not only is it the best solution, is the solution that people need today. They need it today. No delay can be taken into account, not for hours, not for a minute, not for a day, not for two, not for three. Today I have listened to the discussions of some of the previous coalition, unfortunately I must say, I am talking about SD here to understand the problem. But look, if you understand him, we have a law on the table that is urgently needed, we all know that it is absolutely necessary, then let us give it to us as soon as possible, so that people's problems can be solved. That someone's saying that we didn't try to address everything with this law?Oh, my God! Of course, today's free Prime Minister has made it very clear that there is a second and a third law. Because in one marriage, you can never address everything. Never, I'll point it out again. And it could be any government. But it is essential that Slovenians and Slovenians know exactly who is in the circumstances and at this point is able to get this country out of this crisis. And which coalition is the one who's capable of doing it. This is what most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia know. I get criticism every day, but 95% of the support. This government, this coalition, will insist on this and work for people, in the interest of people, and certainly not in the interest of any particular narrow groups. Today Mr. Baković said among other things, I wrote to myself: “The law is remarkable.” A member of whose group this Mr Baković is, I ask you. Tell me! Well, the gentleman said, "The law is remarkable." Now I've been listening to criticism from the same party all along. Now, inside the customer, you decide whether he's extraordinary or problematic. Let you deal inside your party. But look, I didn't sign up for this debate today to discuss what happened, but to support this project to support this law. Since this marriage is urgently needed, people want it today, at the moment. Not tomorrow, not in 14 days. They need him now. People need solutions now. And the first part of the solution is this law, and then comes the next, as a colleague or Minister Andrej Shircelj said, and then the third part, so I'm sure, but I'm sure we won't let anyone through. No one. We're going to do everything because we care about people, whether they're those colors or they're different colors. All those who like to live in this Slovenia are citizens and citizens of this country, the Republic of Slovenia, we are all obliged to do everything we can to help them. But quick, now. And she can do it, and she did it in a few days by John Janša. All experts from all the parties involved in the drafting of this law also assist them in the preparation of the following laws. I am sure that we will save the country, bring it out of this difficult situation, which is not the fault of any government, is not the fault of any one of us, perhaps in the past it has not been done enough to make the situation as it is now. But now it's over and it's irrelevant to talk about it. At this point, we need to solve the problems of our people – all of them pensioners, entrepreneurs, craftsmen, espouses and so on, so that I do not list all vulnerable groups. They're expecting money in the account tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. That is why we must adopt this law as soon as possible. I am convinced that those experts who have worked with ministers to do the best work possible in such a short period of time and all honour in the circumstances.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The replica has Jani Prednik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u140	Dear colleague Pojbič, I have great respect for you and also for your Group of Members, but you will also have to learn to listen. In our debates, in 48 hours so far, we have praised the government for doing a great deal of work. And he does? But we also said that there was a lot of error in the marriage. When the law has been sent to Parliament, it is the task of us parliamentarians to make the articles that we think are controversial, which seem to need to be corrected to correct. But you didn't do it. And one thing is that colleague Baković, who is not currently present, disagrees with the parliamentary group in one matter, that is democracy, and you will have to learn that in the SDS as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The replica has Matjaž German. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u142	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Pojibich, I would only share one opinion with you. When the new government came, we lived in conviction, in fact, the government of Janez Janša would be better organized than the government of Marjan Šarc. After what we have seen in the last two, three days, when the government has not followed all the recommendations and guidelines of this group of experts, we find that this is no longer the case. The biggest surprise of all is [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u143	Sorry, time's up. Elena Zavadlav Usaj has the word. Get Robert Pavšič ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u144	Mr Vice-President, Minister-in-Office and all other fellow Members and Members of Parliament and all those accompanying today's meeting. I am proud that the government has in such a short time prepared a comprehensive package of first measures. As has been said several times in these days during the Committee on Finance's debate, this is the first package of measures to help our citizens and citizens and the economy overcome this period when they suddenly lost their jobs and income. It's true, we have different groups. On the one hand, parents, elderly people, students, socially weak and others, and on the other hand entrepreneurs, businesses, businesses, self-employed persons, natural persons with an activity and other legal forms of organisation. This time, everyone is in trouble because of a single problem we call the Coronavirus, which today is being fought by the whole world. That is how our government and the entire coalition, with all their efforts, strive to get as close as possible to the problems of all groups, to listen and to help them. But we all know that, as in the domestic budget, all decisions must be evaluated in the state. This time we have €3 billion at our disposal, and that is all we can share and nothing else. There is no way we can satisfy all the wishes, but I reiterate that this is the first package of measures. That is why both Prime Minister Janez Janša and Minister of Finance are mags. Andrej Šircelj has repeatedly said that another package of measures will follow, including those that may have fallen into the first package. However, I have examined the bill very carefully myself, and almost everyone can be found in the law – either through social transfers or through the anticipated payment of compensations, including for single mothers. Even in the field of economy, including self-employed persons, the whole sphere is largely covered. However, employees on the basis of copyright contracts will not be compensated, as most are self-employed, since due to high taxation such forms of payment are very little used for regular income. In this law, we cannot pressure those who have income from a regular working relationship and engage in some activity as a side activity, as this does not solve their existential situation. And the law that we have before us is far from comparable to Zujf, for it follows a completely different approach. At the same time, we cannot listen to questions as to how applications will be made, since more or less of these procedures are already being carried out through e-services. At least the procedures followed by this proposal of the law. I would also like to see how many companies will achieve more than 20% revenue growth over the same period in 2019. Let's leave things to the debate later! As we are aware in the Slovenian Democratic Party of the difficulties our citizens and citizens have experienced, I want this bill to be brought to life as soon as possible, so that we can prevent the first problems and move on to another package that will help overcome the liquidity of businesses and put them back into operation as soon as possible. And we will not forget the congregations in it, for during the epidemic they played a key role. Of course, some responded more quickly, while others took a little longer. Maybe it's because they didn't listen to instructions from citizens and citizens. Therefore, it was certainly very easy for mayors and mayors when strict measures were taken at national level for the whole country, as they became the same for all. In local communities, during this period they have faced completely different problems than we are now dealing with here. They had to react quickly and they did not have time for the long debates we are hearing this week on the Committee on Finance and we are still going to have them in today's session. They had people in front of them who needed help. They called for help for various purposes — from infected, self-insulated, elderly calls, people who had just once fallen into mental distress, parents of compulsory children who did not have technical equipment for distance learning, child protection, and the provision of warm meals. And there was no uniform rule here, but they solved the problems. And I assure you, the mayors have solved the problems – what about us? Are we going to know each other here today in this Chamber to unify and to have only desperate citizens and citizens and the economy in front of us in the vote, and to bypass the party's tumults in the vote. It is up to us, dear colleagues and colleagues, as a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party and a party that has started its journey in difficult times, but still puts forth all its efforts to solve the problems that have arisen, to take a key step and to take a constructive approach today to the adoption of the draft law on intervention measures to combat the covid-19 epidemic and to help our Slovenia get rid of the problems that the epidemic has brought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The word has Robert Pavšič, to prepare Monica Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. First of all, one correction, that's another. We discussed one a few weeks ago. In doing so, we correct or break the promise we made in the previous marriage. But it is a moratorium on loans, which will now be completely different, completely useless with the new law. But that's another story. The fact is, emergency situations also bring extraordinary reactions. In these few days, we have heard many things, from being traitors on the opposition side to actually being offered in the process of drafting this law a deadline for cooperation. As far as cooperation is concerned, I can absolutely and decisively claim that this was not the case. You have not taken any comments from the coalition into account. I'm not talking about amendments or comments. Although there have certainly been some of these during the amendments that would facilitate the work of the government, without financial consequences. Okay. We can look at each marriage from at least two levels. Of course, there are a number of excellent measures in this law that we must welcome, and we agree with that and are all praiseworthy. But it's also a whole range of bad or at least questionable. Some, however, are even unconstitutional. And when the two-day Finance Committee has been mentioned several times and today the call for constructiveness and how did this end up in the vote – how did the vote reflect? How many of our amendments did you press at least the quorum key or to at least abstain? No, you totally turned it down. But of course it's your right, nobody's telling you that. But you can't tell us how inoperable we are or how unconstructive we are. We're going through the entire procedure of this law. With these amendments and with this expectation it was as it was with the masks and the two ministers. The masks were in Spain, then they were in Italy, then they were at customs in Fernetics – by the way, at Fernetic Customs for a long time – then they were at tanking in Postojna and then they even disappeared. The real frenetic events, the masks, the masks are not, of course they are, they are not, they have defrauded us. Well, how'd it go with this marriage? Very similar. It was filed on Sunday afternoon. On Monday morning he was called so morning by the College, and let's leave it to the College. So the first part of the committee, we've been waiting all day for your amendments, not ours. Ours have already been invested. On Wednesday we had a second part of the committee, and by 1:00 and 30 minutes we waited again for your amendments. For two days, according to the Legal and Legal Service and our comments, we were expecting your amendments so that we could move forward and see what we're up to. And today's findings can be obvious. Not a single comment, not a single amendment, is in another reading. Of the 111 articles, ZPS had comments on 84, some even unconstitutional. This must be repeated several times. And now with the 20 amendments, which, at least as the Minister has stated, are of a nomotechnical nature, we will remove these comments on 30 plus pages and even potential unconstitutionalities. Then we hear how the coalition blames the opposition that health workers will not receive an allowance for their work this month because we have been stalling. No, it was the other way around. You yourself have not been able to put together all the necessary, and now even I hear that we will soon be without Parliament, “for if only one Member is positive for the Coronavirus, you will all go into quarantine”. Well, at the previous meeting, we have lost control of the implementation of the budget, we have received at least that, you have accepted that, I must commend that to report to the National Enforcement Assembly, and now the coronavirus is threatening democracy directly. If we include the procedures and purposes set out in 103., 104. and 111. Article 37.a yesterday, I think our scepticism and concern are fully justified. And the following measures follow. We don't even know if they'll be effective or not, but it's right to approach quickly and solve acute problems. If we look at purely simple mathematics. EUR 3 billion would be allocated to all people in Slovenia and each would receive a good thousand 400 euros. I know it's pointless to explain things like that, but that people can imagine. If you only got a work-active one, you'd get every work-active four thousand Euros plus a supplement. Again, it's not fair to banalize the problem, but let's see what kind of frameworks we're talking about. Finally, the key question remains whether people can be at peace this week because of this law and all that is happening today. I can't give them a yes to that question.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Minister, mag. Andrei Shircelj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I've already talked about Article 103. Now I just want to talk about this statement by Mr Pavšić, who said that the coronavirus is threatening democracy. Coronavirus is not a threat to democracy. Coronavirus is life-threatening.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Monica Gregorčič has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Today is the third day of a full-day debate on this marriage package, the so-called crown of the law. I think this is more than obvious proof that in this House we have taken more than enough time to deal with this complex law. In this context, I also do not understand all the opposition's previous manoeuvres to postpone the treatment, leave it to us to take more time, because people need this law and also expect us to finally make a deal, agree and do something good, I repeat, for people and for the economy. For the economy in this context, to allow people to survive this crisis, this halt to social and business life has somehow been calm in these few months, so that they will not have severe existential concerns and that, because they are calm, they will be able to hold back all the other restrictions of movement that are urgently needed and the other measures that have been introduced to curb the spread of this virus and this disease, so that in a few months, I hope, we can continue with normal life and restart the economy. The most common findings were also the concern for public financial stability at the opposition's two-day meeting. Here, both the Minister of Finance and today, the President of the Government explained very explicitly what the situation is at the European level and where these resources will come from. Another concern, or obvious, was a little more incorrect, but the opposition did not have to rush because this law did not directly save lives due to the threats of the coronavirus. Of course, it doesn't save them directly because it's not a health law. In particular, it is a law with exceptional financial effects, an intervention of around €3 billion into the economy and in certain groups of people, employees and other categories, as it is said that this first shock will be overcome and that it can then continue. This 3 billion-dollar intervention will be the country's largest intervention in Slovenia alone or in general. The fact is that the market no longer works. This is what a colleague from the Left said before, and here, although I come from a liberal party alone, I am deeply aware of this fact. The Minister also said today that the invisible hand of the market has been replaced by the visible deadline of the country. I can only agree with that. The circumstances are such that we must all attach ourselves to this. Another very important observation was made by the opposition that this proposal does not cover all social groups. It really doesn't cover them, we'll never be able to capture everyone if you want, maybe an inappropriate term, border groups. But the positions of the people employed are very different and, except for some so-called universal basic income, we cannot share the money among the citizens, as mentioned earlier by our colleague Pavšič, but we cannot cover all. Even if such a proposal were to contain this law, I am convinced that the government would be even more at risk than some of these targeted measures. Why am I so sure? Because of such a smaller attempt on this crisis supplement, such as for pensioners or a crisis contribution to regular students, it is clear here that some are satisfied with it, but some are not. Always, however you turn, something is wrong for someone or it is not fair, because the standards we have are different. I was very disturbed by something on the opposition's side today because, otherwise, I do not have the habit of commenting on statements made by individual Members, but by my colleague Kordiš's statement that the President of the Government spoke today about some independent stories, but here I was personally hurt, I will say, or I will be disappointed, because these are words that are not worthy of a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. However we turn, it was 30 years ago for not one of the brightest moments of our history, which also claimed human sacrifice. Finally, I would only point out one more publication on the social network of one of the opposition parties, which exposed the essence of all three-day criticisms of this law. It has been reported that only one party takes the authority to distribute EUR 3 billion among people. Dear colleagues, this money will not be distributed by just one party, nor by this coalition, but will, on a proposal from the Government, divide it into quotations, the National Assembly. In this democratic process, members of the opposition also have the opportunity to press the key for and participate actively and do something good for people to do something together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see there's still interest. I'm asking you to sign up. Three have been reported. The first one gets the word mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! A beautiful man is not surprised, but what Mr Pavšič said earlier really requires a moment of truth. The first thing that bothered him — what kind of government he was. Why is such a government? Because his President, Mr Marjan Sarec, when he finally realized that he was completely incompetent and incompetent, stepped back on his nose and left. That is why there is no longer a government like Mr Pavšić. This was the first moment of truth. The other one. He said, "We're working on fast legislation." Of course, because it's time for that to happen. But why does this time require us to work on fast legislation? Because the government of Marjan Šarc, in which Mr Pavšič played a special role in the coalition, has done absolutely nothing. She even did a lot of damage. What happened to the masks he mentioned earlier? One million masks were exported to China by the government of Marjana Sarca when an epidemic occurred in Europe. To take pictures of how they help, instead of then purchasing respirators and masks for Slovenia. More. When we had a meeting of the Health Committee at the time, where I was not a member, but I went along with it, I warned that the epidemic could no longer be stopped because that time was delayed when air traffic was left unhindered and then return without quarantine during China's new year. Who doesn't know when it is, let me say, there towards the end of January and early February. At that time, air traffic should be stopped or at least put in place those restrictive measures which would be normal. Some countries were so smart that they did it and then had a much easier task. That's not what happened in Europe. In the end, I have already put the issue of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia through Twitter on 26 January, at the time it is already in charge of the government, because Mr Sarec has already packed it and the European Commission, why there are no restrictive measures, why there is no quarantine at all. Of course, the European Commission has never replied to me; I am not a European Member. If you were, maybe everything would be different. But the Slovenian government responded, but go see what the answers were in writing and what the answers were on the committee when we discussed this. In the middle of February it was said that it was a flu, that it was no problem at all, that there was no need to have any equipment to advise against wearing masks. The whole story of the Coronavirus, now portrayed as a monster, is really a story of unconsciousness and irresponsibility. If it wasn't for the world institution on one side: the UN, if you wanted, the World Health Organization worked under obvious pressure of financial interests, either individuals, or countries, probably China, and they would have done their job, but they didn't, what happened wouldn't have happened. And we wouldn't be sitting here today. And if the Slovenian government, led by Marjan Sarca, had done minimally in the field of those most urgent measures, we would not be talking here today. Now we have to. The law before us is the best thing that could be done in agreement with different groups, with economists, with everyone, so quickly. In normal countries, in normal circumstances, the law has been born for six months. Like Germany, somewhere else. That's the rule of law. There's no time here. We need to react quickly. Therefore, it was also said that this was only the first step. He will follow the following, likely within 14 days, and then some things will be corrected. Personally too, I would like to put a lot of ballast out of this law because I think bureaucracy has done a lot of work for the next few years, and it is time to demand that a way of thinking also be changed to make things as simple as possible, speed up and make them effective. But Slovenia is on the right track, because due to the extremely good participation of the population, which is extremely grateful for the right measures, we are very, very far from those countries that have the biggest problems. And let's keep it that way. But if that were the case, it would be good if all the politics, like Nancy Pelosi and Donald Trump in the United States, could come together. I'm afraid you're here today to prove that that's not the case. And yesterday you did, too. Then we come to the point where these urgent measures are refused, to try to discredit them, to make it completely unnecessary and to delay the procedure in these situations. Otherwise, it wouldn't be a problem, but in these circumstances it is because things need to be handled as quickly as possible. On the other hand, see what you're really doing. Yesterday, members of the Left, SD and LMŠ, Liste Marjan Sarca, refused to allow the Slovenian army to protect the Slovenian border. Today, just half an hour ago, the U.S.A. announced how the epidemic and infection between illegal migrants in Greece and the Balkans is spreading as a fire. But the border is not protected. And all measures will not be successful if the border is not adequately protected. If in such circumstances you do not allow the Slovenian army to do what is its mission, it is treason, ladies and gentlemen. This is what we are really facing, and it is also in those words of some who have been spoken here today. You just have to do what you can. You've all been invited. You're still here. But, please, give once a small amount of your political ambitions, which have already proved to be too many boots in the previous government, because that is why Marjan Sarec has resigned, given a little aside and show that someone is also a statesman in this Parliament – the statesman is able to submit his personal and political interests to the common interests. And now it is Slovenia's greatest and sure common interest to take care of security on the one hand and on the other hand to take care of its economy, the economy and, of course, a human life worth living. That is precisely what is being proposed today. That is why I support the amendments that have been tabled by the government and I support the law itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The word is Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Minister of Respect! Much has already been said today and also yesterday, and even in all these days around this first mega package to save citizens and the economy. The government has actually made an effort and has prepared very good measures for both people and the economy as soon as possible. In the first phase, of course, to put out the fire, for these initial problems that have arisen in this epidemic, which touches every single one of us. However, another package is already being prepared, which will work mainly on the liquidity of businesses, economies, small economies, agriculture, espies, in short, everything it does, which earns the money they then invest, is being paid through contributions, through taxes in state and municipal budgets. When I listen to all this debate that we're talking about, where these debates are going, what they're touching, you really can't say anything but that it's literally just stumbling, guessing, and absolutely nothing good to help the government in these difficult efforts. We know that the government, state secretaries, ministers, including the Prime Minister, with all the experts involved, work night and day. I guess you can see that. Look at these people in the evening shows and look at their faces. Of course, it must be immediately said that, in particular, health personnel, including all those workers, workers working in a critical economic infrastructure, that the country is functioning at all, as well as everyone else, can say that bold entrepreneurs, who, of course, by appropriate safeguards, have stopped production, have kept the economy in operation, those who need to thank everyone individually. In fact, I am monitoring all areas and I respect every single one who is still working hard in these difficult situations to make the country work at all. After you hear all these debates, all these writings on social networks, all these mucks, ugly words, hate speech, which, I have to say, mostly flies from the left when you're looking at it, and when you're looking at all these burning people in health, post office, police, civil protection, everyone who works in manufacturing, electricians and ultimately even the government, then you really don't know if it's a normal country or if it's a crazy country. Rather than taking a stand together and helping one another to speak encouragingly, we may actually help one another even by not stumbling around, not by making a move, but by doing the opposite. No one said that you in the opposition should not make amendments, that you should not make proposals. No one's ever said that. You can give them, it's the same thing as making suggestions, but let's be aware of something. First of all, the minister said a hundred times that all these proposals would be welcome in the next package. I think all this is clear enough. All these proposals that are being gathered will also be taken into account. The government also met the economy again yesterday. I think everyone's got it all figured out. You don't have to keep saying that, and that would still be, third would be, and yes, and it's not, and it's not. Yes, but how are you going to completely cover everything in such a marriage, in such a fast-ready one that should have been adopted by now?Oh, my God! We have even heard that in health care there will now be wages, and because of this delay that is taking place here in Parliament, these allowances will not be paid. Isn't that sad? And what they'd do is they'd delay, they'd move the sessions, they'd owe and they'd set fire to. It'll never be right for everything. The government will make a hundred percent of the effort, and all of us Members on both the right and the left are trying in this direction to actually capture all people, from vulnerable to all possible. It is also important to say this: let us be aware that what is now happening is to put out the fire. We are not in normal situations, as some imagine, but here we go with some stalling, amendments and boundless debates. We're not in normal time. Look, we're here in masks, sitting on each other's sides, people getting infected, hospitals are full, problems are with equipment, protective masks, with everything alive. Let's be aware that we're putting out the fire, that the government is trying. And it's like some kind of firefight. When the facility is burned, then one will decide, and this is the leader of the fire, he will listen and try to resolve the matter as best as possible at that time. But how would it feel if then we all lined up and started to reason with each other? It is true and it is true that there are many proposals. I got hundreds of text messages, mails on the Messenger, everywhere, calling me people and probably all of you. We are trying to respond somehow to a human relationship, we know, we know about, we know about, we know how this legislation is going on, we know from what areas all of this is now coming together, and we are actually trying to do it all. And not running away from people, except, literally, 2 million 100 people could find 2 million 100 proposals. Everything will be taken care of. Let us be optimistic, letting people know that the government will do its utmost. And when this crisis is over, I hope that we will infect it with all these government measures, but we will be able to take our time back here in peace for hours and hours to talk and resolve matters further and adopt such legislation as is necessary. I'm having a hard time listening right now. You're talking about poverty on the left there. I don't know what you can't find. Look, we're aware of all this. But you had time to take care of poverty and family helpers and disabled people at the time. We've all been trying, and we've accepted a lot of things along with you. It was time for that back then. Now is not the time to save old things you didn't do before. You've had a hell of a government! And you say, this government is now saving Yes, and you had a government! [[…]] Why don't you save this now, or Left? Why aren't you there? You had your chance. Why did you just before the worst crisis that came along and quit and let people down, jump off the boat? Now I'd like that, and I'd like that, and I would, of course, because I have to. [[…]] The government is also trying and working. And you say that it is not 100%, yes, of course there will be no 100% support, as said by Marijan Pojbič, 95% of citizens, people supporting these government proposals, these efforts, extraordinary efforts to make us all better. Above all, those who are now working very, very hard and working for us. Your government had support, I don't know, 30%. Let's face it, let's be here on the real ground. And once again, as soon as possible, this marriage needs to be supported and not run away from people to waste some nonsense they don't even hold. But to deal with the fact that this government wants to make a dictatorship in the country, it's a coup d'état. Please! Yes, these are your tweets and your scribes, which then make them naive and those you order to share and flee the nation. What kind of coup, people of God?Oh, my God! What are you talking about? So you're afraid of your own Slovenian army. You're afraid of your relatives. You're afraid of the police. What will someone do to you? What measures they take around the world! I don't know, but what do you open your eyes? Police hours. What are they doing? Just to infect the disease, to stop the virus from spreading, to stop it, and to get into normal rails. And you're talking about the police walking around the apartment arresting everyone, and I don't know what. You sell it to people, and some even buy it. And in these crisis, difficult times. I could tell everyone, "You're not ashamed!" Just that, nothing else. All these measures that are ready, I will be happy to support them. And all the suggestions you make, and we have made a lot of suggestions. In short, it is right for all Members to participate in this work in a creative way, to listen to people, voters, everyone has been elected somewhere, everyone has a base of people and everyone sees problems, problems. The money is split, 3 billion euro is not a small sum, and I know that some of you are in pain of going to these 3 billion euros among people, including the majority among the vulnerable group and the economy. Unlike what you once did when you gave $5 billion to banks. But we do know how many holes were in the banks, and who were all these banks allowing money to disappear out of the country and that millions of people have written off. But I'm not going back that far. So let us be reasonable, let us be realistic, and let us work together. All these proposals that you will make, once again, I believe in this government and I believe that they have written down just about every one of these proposals. They are already being taken into account in this package, but of course they will also be in the future. I don't know how many times he's been here and the President of the Government in the morning. This ain't no fun party. I believe that this is also the case for most Members, I have been following the debate, as soon as it is not clear that these proposals will be taken into account for the most part. Let us give people a positive signal in these critical times. That's what I want and nothing else. Let's support health care and not make such stupid proposals that soldiers go to hospitals and nursing homes now, but I don't know what, instead of going to the border. When you read this, I don't know, you prevented the military from helping the police to protect the Slovenian border, so that migrants who, as we have heard, have ever more and more problems with infection would not invade. [[…]] For them, too, for everyone who is particularly sick, for each individual, no matter what kind of person he is or who he is. You prevented the Slovenian Army from helping the Slovenian police. Then you immediately began to deal with all these difficult problems in that poor 103rd and 104th, when you had to do something to keep people quarantined, actually quarantined, without wasting the virus around and some control of it being established. Take a look around. Look in Russia when you praise Putin sometimes, what are the penalties. Seven years of arrest if anyone leaves quarantine. Let's have a look. And in Serbia, when you like to wave with red stars like that, you praise the former South. Look at this little thing! It's a curfew. Take a look at this. We are working with some regular, friendly, polite, democratic measures to contain this epidemic. That what the Prime Minister has pointed out most of the time is that hospitals will be filled with intensive care and that we will have sick medical personnel. Does anyone have any idea what might happen? Can anyone imagine that? Here we stop a little and let the government do its work as it has set out to help, prepare for the next package, when we help the economy in the second phase, so that when this, I hope, thank God, once the end, we will continue as it should. Now, if you'll allow me at the end, I'd like to thank again all those who work in these difficult times who go to work to look out for each other, to be far enough away from each other to get infected so that they don't bring home the disease. Above all, care must be taken of our elders, who know that they are the most sensitive. Since it is always common throughout the world and everywhere, in the end I will express my support mainly to all those who work, and most of all to our healthcare professionals who are unknowingly trying to give them a round of applause. [[Let's hear it.]] There you go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Chairman. Well, that's a big one. First of all, I'm listening here to the tearful stories of Nancy Pelosi and Donald Trump's cooperation. After giving here I do not know how many amendments from the opposition, we are constructively trying, of which nothing is accepted, while we are hearing some promises that things will be corrected in the next step. We have here a mega coronation law that will, in fact, help many companies and also people, will help many, hold. But he also completely ignored many. I hope to say that right now we have a law in front of us that creates a new class or new classes that have been deleted, whatever you want, which is actually geared towards strengthening an authoritarian state. Pika. The 103rd paragraph just confirms that. Now I'm going to make it clear exactly why it confirms that. Article 103 gives the police a number of excessive powers that actually constitute a grave breach of our civil rights [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u157	Madam colleague, under Article 103 you have an amendment, you can do it there. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u158	It has no connection, this is a more general debate that will be of a broader nature [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u159	Yes, of course he has connections. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u160	I now justify why I believe that this law also strengthens the authoritarian state and I have the right to debate. Even though you deleted those two controversial powers, entering a foreign apartment and making photobots, everything else remains fine. So that the police will be able to easily access our most sensitive personal data, including specific types of personal data, to which the existing legislation is still in force, only the NIJZ and no one else has access. What is worse, you did not think it was even worth really explaining these most controversial matters to us Members and Members. And then here we hear about how we are not ready to participate in these difficult times. What is even worse, and I particularly want to underline this, this measure will not be of a temporary nature, it will not only be for the time of this crisis, it will not be linked to the time of the epidemic, I am talking about Article 103, but, as I see, it will be permanently bound to the law on communicable diseases. So we're going to extend these powers smoothly, it's going to become normal. That's what you want, normalizing the expansion of powers both to the police and to the military, as it did yesterday. Something that will make people feel normal for once, something that will last longer because there will always be a crisis or a danger. Okay, here we are talking about the health crisis, and there you will talk about when it comes to the police powers of the military, about the security crisis created by the threatening wave of refugees who are coming, even though there are not many of them for a while. Not to say that there are some blouses here, the legal and legal service, our, the Information Officer, the Ombudsman, civil society, profession and we, too, are constantly warning and warning the opposition these days that Article 103 is completely unconstitutional. It is unconstitutional in terms of the constitutional principle of the rule of law, which is Article 2 of the Constitution, by the principle of the division of power, that is Article 3 of the Constitution and the principle of legality, that is Article 120 of the State. What can this article really mean in practice? It means destroying the principle of the division of power when the actual executive branch of power through the police could constantly oversee the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia. That's what it means. Let's get some fresh wine. Here in all this mega package, where we have to help people as quickly as possible, he found himself touching this 103rd article, which made this whole law really unconstitutional, my dears. Although you are the 104th article, which was even worse to follow us on our phones, otherwise somehow the last moment with difficulty has been withdrawn once, thank you for doing this, at least this. But, as I say, I'm still hearing today about the 37th article on defence, how we are now stateless, how we don't understand how I don't know what. But, excuse me, the combination of these two, and if I add to this that Parliament is suspended in terms of controlling the public financial spending this moment, what have you achieved with some other intervention law days ago – what do we get, what kind of mixture do we get out of this? I can only draw one conclusion that is completely understandable, and not tell me that these are some of our conspiracies. The government, as it sees at this moment, on the basis of Parliament's suspension in the supervision of public finances, as it seems in accordance with Article 103, which is still in here, still has the opportunity to withdraw it, if you are well-intentioned and will finally listen to something constructive that comes from our side, because we are warning you, after all, against unconstitutionality, in view of the 104th article you have so far withdrawn from the table, according to Article 37a - what do we get? The government is using the health crisis to consolidate the authoritarian way of ruling. Don't tell me these aren't elements of authoritarian rule, because I don't know what they are. And I don't care if you make excuses for curfews or worse. What's happening in Hungary can't be an example to me, but unfortunately it's obvious to you and you need to think about it a little bit. But to go further, from repression to the new erasures I mentioned earlier. With all the amendments we've made in the explanations we've been trying to make, even though we've been in extreme weather, as well as you who've been preparing it, no, so far you haven't listened, you're saying you will, I hope you will, but for now we don't have this here, we only have promises. We have children in this marriage from the poorest families who, by closing primary and secondary schools, were deprived of, many of these, the only warm meal a day, we have self-employed mothers and fathers, we have families with less than three children, we have 10,000 people without health insurance, we have tenants of apartments and spaces – all of these are deleted from this law. They're off, they're gone, they're invisible, I don't know what to tell you. This law creates a difference between ours or less, or those who will be helped, and those who are absolutely ignored. And now I've listed you. We also have in this law those who will be adequately protected by the law and those who will be protected in an inadequate manner. You didn't listen to reality here either. Because real situations are different than theory. 120 thousand self-employed people face many problems in which those who have never been self-employed have no idea. And all of them are being misconstrued because you didn't listen to why it wasn't appropriate. Because you're tying up some arbitral stuff, bureaucratic, February this, that. That's not how it works with self-employed people. That's 120 grand. There are pensioners here, and there are differences. Someone who's just under 700 euros, say, 699 euros, is going to get this help, someone who's going to get over, I don't know, 1 cent or 1 euro won't get it. Look, that's not how you do it. We should probably be working in some classes, but not like that, it's unfair. There are private sector workers who are not treated in the same way as in the public sector, as far as these supplements are concerned when they are currently working in dangerous situations and are exposed. Here are agency workers, interns, poor students who will get the same as rich students who live in a safe, well-sustained home, and will be provided with it as just one pocketbook, falling down, and poor students with 150 euros, sorry, what they can do to help themselves in these months of crisis, when they can't wait, they can't do anything to survive at all, and they can study. There are poor families, recipients of social transfers, who are also not properly addressed. Look, we're all actually victims of an epidemic. We're all equally at risk. The fact is that the virus does not actually choose between races and not between classes. But not all of us are equally economically vulnerable. We didn't. And this law does not properly address this moment or see it or do not want to hear it, you do not want to hear it. And then you say we're here to stumble, to speculate that I don't know what we're doing. No, no, no. We don't stumble, we really want cooperation, in this crisis at all, and we all really want to help people, I believe you and we. But to all people. At all, attention should be paid to those who are most vulnerable. And these are not border groups, co-workers, these are socially vulnerable groups, socially excluded, not border groups, as if they were all marginal. Let me finish with the sentence of a desperate mother who belongs to a group of these self-employed mothers. She says, "I try not to be the burden of the country, but then I don't belong anywhere." Those are her words, respected and respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Before I put forward the replica, my colleague would simply point out that the unconstitutionality is determined by the Constitutional Court and is neither determined by Members, nor by the Government, nor by the Legal and Legislative Service. All we have is an opinion on this. That's one thing. The other thing you're talking about is that surveillance is suspended. I would suggest that you appoint presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Commission for the supervision of public finances and also the Commission for the supervision of security intelligence services as soon as possible. The fact that you didn't propose it, you can't report it to the coalition, to anyone, but it's a matter of opposition. You're the one who's actually obstructing control. Now first, the replica of Monica Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u162	Thank you. It's just a response to a colleague's impression in front of me. I'm aware that the term border group wasn't appropriate, so I put it in my nickname. Take another look at the video and I'm not going to listen to your eyes.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Then Minister Andrej Shircelj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Here I would like to respond to some claims because I cannot agree with them. Not because of my personal conviction, but because this proposed law stipulates otherwise than you say. The first thing I want to say is about self-employed people. I've already read which self-employed can actually get an allowance based on the application. So here I think that those who pay taxes, those who have less traffic in April than in February – to simplify the provision a little bit – or in May as in February, there was no coronaryism and coronaryism in February. It is now. I find it hard to imagine that some people have more income at the time of the coronavirus than in another period. Except those who actually serve on this account who serve at the expense of the crisis. That's what they are. You have someone who trades masks, for example, he's probably going to be more profitable than he is now. Nothing wrong, but some can. But these are probably more exceptions than they are. So here I'd say it's actually hard to imagine. Especially since we're talking not about payment, but about realisation. So it's a different matter. All those you have listed — the single mother and so on — will all come, if they are employed, into those provisions that give the possibility of exemption and then an additional EUR 200. They all come in. But it's not like the law can make individual people, I don't know what a single mother is, a culturer, an athlete, an artist and so on, because they'd probably let someone go, and I'm afraid they'd forget someone, and then everything would be wrong. But they all have the same status – they're self-employed. No matter what kind of activity they're doing. So from this point of view, I just can't agree that the ones you're talking about can be -- I don't know, in this law. But just so someone's off, and you want to shut somebody out, look, that's what I don't think is actually true. Secondly, Parliament is suspended and so on. With regard to the provision that the government may be redistributed between ministries, the provision is that the Government or the Ministry of Finance shall communicate each month to Parliament. Every month. Every month. You can do it every week if you want. From this point of view, there is more control, regardless of the fact that there is a Commission for the supervision of public finances, which can convene a meeting on the control of the state budget every day. So the surveillance is ensured. I'm just taking it so it's said it isn't, and it happens a couple of times, and then it's thought there's no control. Surveillance is more than it was under the previous government, because it is now a special commission monitoring budget spending. This was also adopted at the previous meeting of the National Assembly. Article 103 I just want to say, or I want to read, because in fact, people don't even know what we're talking about. But this article would begin by saying: “Police officers may, for the purpose of infecting and controlling the covid-19 epidemic, and in order to ensure respect for the specific measures provided for in the law establishing communicable diseases and laying down measures for their prevention and control, and in the regulations or decisions adopted to contain and control the epidemic, apply the following powers under the law governing the powers of the police.” And then it lists everything the police can do: collect notices and so on. There's 11 in there. Then you have in the second paragraph that police officers may exercise their powers solely to provide decisions and concrete acts on the basis of a law establishing communicable diseases. I want to tell you that this article deals exclusively with the spread of the epidemic and the prevention of the spread of the epidemic. This article only provides for the powers of the police to prevent the spread of the epidemic so that others do not get sick. Because people don't travel, they hang out, and so on. It also applies to those who are quarantined and do not adhere to this quarantine. They're not quarantined here because someone wants to be quarantined. They're quarantined because they don't hurt others not to waste the virus around. It's very simple. Now we have to ask ourselves here whether we want all of us to be threatened by the virus or whether we are already threatened, whether we have to somehow restrict those who are quarantined so that they cannot go to trade, for example. That's what this is about. To limit the virus. And nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u165	Thank you. Replica, Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u166	Dear Minister! In the second paragraph, it permanently binds itself to the law on confusion, what I know, epidemics, infectious diseases or whatever. When the outbreak of measles or flu — will it work? Where does it say in the second paragraph that it is decided if it binds itself to that existing law? It is said that this law, which refers to the spread of communicable diseases in general, is permanently linked not only to this particular coronary virus but also to other communicable diseases. That's one thing. And the other is when you mentioned self-employed people. You say, "those who pay taxes." Did you think that if someone owed something small because they couldn't make it right for the last month, did you think that self-employed people who don't have continuous regular tides every month have very different situations that they didn't maybe do it because they avoid paying taxes, but because they're so poor that they couldn't settle maybe one account? And you're not gonna get the poorest help. And this is this problem that we wanted to warn you in all ways, and somehow you can't hear us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The word is from the Minister of Magic. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u168	Honourable Member Sukič, including those who owe a small amount to the tax administration, will receive this aid because at the previous meeting of this National Assembly, you have adopted a law on the deferral of taxes. They will suspend this tax, if they are due, for 12 months and receive a certificate that they may receive this aid. We took care of you, too. Second. I see this law, which has a limited duration, which is 2 months and 2 plus 1 months, exclusively to prevent the spread of the epidemic and empowering the police to prevent the spread of the epidemic, especially those in quarantine, and some go to trade. That's why.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? There's still interest, so I'm asking you to report it. Two of them have been reported. First he gets the word Gregor Perich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u170	Thank you. Good-bye, everybody! I followed very closely today's debate and also yesterday's and the day before the Committee on Finance, although I was not present because I am not a member. I can narrow it down, I can conclude with one conclusion or with one question of rhetorical nature, if this law is optimal, or if it is comprehensive, or if it is completely coherent. The answer will be that for all clear, no, it is not optimal, it is not comprehensive and it is not completely coherent, because in one good week, as the government has had time to design it, to put it together, to think about harmonising it between different ministries, it is difficult to take a longer step than it has actually been made. If I compare this law as some achievement compared to the dynamics of working in another government, then I can say that this law is monumental. Nevertheless, I think, and we have found this many times today, whether we are part of a coalition or opposition, that there are still a lot of corrections to be made. It was a clear commitment by the coalition and by the Ministry, as well as the Prime Minister, to all of this to be done. Therefore, some excessive intimidation and dramatization and exposure of all those who have not been caught in this law, I understand this purpose, but the question is, if people understand it. Because then this message is extremely bad, and in a way the message from this house comes, if you have left out of this solution to the problems that we are in. This message is wrong and misleading. That is why I would ask, colleagues and colleagues, that when you communicate in these, you can easily say that crisis times are also sensitive enough. When we talk about the amendments themselves, because we also had a lot of ideas in the coalition, I believe that they had all the parties, what is yet to be prepared, and if all those amendments were to come together to the committee and to the ministry and to where else, then this law could have run for not two, three days, but two or three weeks, or even three months, but it would still not have been the result that everyone would have been satisfied with. It is simply impossible to make a law in such a short period of time that we will all be satisfied because we are unhappy as a society because of the situation we are in. This solution will take quite some time, even after this immediate threat to the virus has passed. When I hear about the deleted, it's someone who's been somewhere, and then we put him out, because, I don't know, we don't like him, because he doesn't seem close enough to us or worth any help when I hear about authoritarianism or even unconstitutionality, I think the Vice-President here has said very correctly that it's not the National Assembly, not the Government or anyone else, except the Constitutional Court, who can say that some thing is constitutional or unconstitutional. Let us also take into account this division and the balance between the different branches of government and not take on powers that do not go well with us which do not belong to us. However, I agree that, not the law, but the situation in which we are in is very unfavorable liberal political thoughts. All the measures that are being implemented are going in exactly the opposite direction from what we have been trained in a country, or society, if we are looking at in the European Union or in the Western world, where our achievements are based, historically, on some fundamental freedoms and on human rights, which we can now exercise on a very limited scale, but I believe that many of us, or the vast majority of us, are clearly why. Why do we give up freedom of movement, why do we give up or even ban a free economic initiative? Because we simply put our health ahead of us and human life. If this equation or search for this balance is unclear, then we can leave in the extreme as some countries or as some environments have done that have simply left behind and then see what will happen. Some will go smoothly through, some will probably draw short, but we left or did not touch any liberal or no values, no fundamental freedoms, no human rights. I find it difficult to accept all these evidences of repression, because they are primarily mediated so very flat-rately. There was a great deal of debate around 103rd and about 104th. Here I thank and welcome this understanding, and this consensus that we have reached within the coalition regarding the withdrawal of Article 104, we have retained Article 103, but this does not mean that the purpose of Articles 103 and 104 has now been achieved by this manoeuvre. I have also heard today a few voices of reason from the opposition who have understood the purpose of this law or these two articles in the law, because we simply need to provide ourselves with some tools, so the state must provide itself with some tools to ensure that those who are quarantined and must be quarantined in order to ensure health for all those who are not infected to stay there and do not spread the virus. If we don't have these levers, then we move in the direction of those societies, those environments that simply leave all the hands of the market, one or the other, who gets infected, will get infected, who doesn't, who doesn't survive, who doesn't survive, who doesn't survive, who doesn't, God doesn't survive. I just can't agree with that. But I am, and I believe there are many people here who are also wondering what the consequences of this virus will be. But globally, not only for Slovenia, but also for the European Union, and also for the power relations between individual countries. We may not be aware of this, but at the global level, the power distribution maps at this moment or during this period are very much mixed within this process, and even when these crises, directly linked to the virus, end, the society we were used to, will not be exactly the same as they were a month or two ago. I could now suggest to the 11th of September in the United States, when that event seemed quite far away to us, but it had a profound impact on how we understand security today and how many other rights we are prepared to give up, let's say privacy, so that we have this security guaranteed. At that time, we were looking at it from a military perspective, and today we're looking at it from a medical point of view. I believe that this health component will be very strong and very intensive in the future. All of these, if we look at it this way, vast processes that are going on, or these shocks have actually turned our lives around. If I miss something within the National Assembly, there is more than one debate about human rights and also more debates, debates, opinions, and very different ways to face and deal with all these pressures that we have experienced. After all, I, myself as a Member, am extremely limited in my work because our work is connected to some contacts, to some communication, to some meetings, to some coffee. We just don't have it all anymore, and we have to do it on the phone, and I believe that this is how every member or member of our society is affected. All of this brings us into some kind of crisis, into some uncertainty, and I miss also within the National Assembly more of these debates on human rights, so that, at the end of the day, the public will understand better why some moves are being made, some measures that are unpleasant, which are antilibrary in that political sense, in terms of political philosophy and which stifle our freedom. But I'm absolutely not in favour of going in the direction of some kind of authoritarianism. In any case, I would never personally allow myself, nor would I allow us to turn in any direction that leads to any kind of anarchy. Therefore, despite what I have initially said, this law is not optimal, it is not comprehensive and is not entirely coherent, I support. I will do my utmost to continue, and I believe that all of you, too, with me, will seek out all the corrections that are necessary to ensure that all that we have not been able to achieve in this package are captured in the following. Above all, I would take advantage of this opportunity to call for confidence in institutions. We all need to trust each other in particular at this time and things that can be done in a coordinated manner in the right direction. At the moment of some uncertainty in which we are, every message that goes from this direction is very strong and only distances us from getting rid of all these problems that we are in. That I am not even talking about the implementation and weight of all these effects of the negative virus on our society, on the economy, on all the other subsystems of the country, because then it is only further extended and lost its original purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that. A good marriage takes at least half a year, if not more, to capture all possible aspects, all extremes, all people and all situations. This law came about in a very short time, and we can only express our admiration and appreciation for those who have worked hard in the long hours of work and are concerned that it has come about. He certainly has shortcomings, for he even has a long - standing marriage. However, I certainly cannot allow the idea that the law is unconstitutional. It's unconstitutional what's against life. I have the first right to live and secondly to live in a healthy environment and to be free. But rights are also bound to responsibility. They're not just justice, they're responsibilities. I am responsible for helping or endangering my fellow citizens. Therefore, Article 103 is that article, which in some ways restricts our freedom, yet allows us to do so. If we follow the guidelines that protect our health and our lives in a responsible manner, then we will have no consequences that the police could carry out. If I hear about how some groups are affected, there must always be a limit under which or which does not belong to a supplement. And that's bad. It's really bad. However, he saves most, both self-employed and retired and students. I've been called by a lot of pensioners, and some of them have cryin' lucky to be able to help themselves with this supplement in the current crisis. They're richer and they're poorer students, they're students who have to serve their own bread so they can pay their rent. Those students who don't need it will probably turn the rest of the money into some kind of purchase. And that will be after the crisis is over, perhaps what will also help us all, who will be involved in this, in the new deal, even the advantage. I watch teachers at school work ten hours a day, and the principals are 12 hours in school to enable all children to learn remotely. Here I can’t think that the SDS has already introduced into its programme in 2014 and 2018 that every child should have a free tablet or laptop. Well, there had to be a crisis to finally come to that. That's what kids deserve. The culture of behavior is the one that connects us. The right to a healthy living environment is the one I demand when I step into a store, and I demand that the ones who are with me do not behave irresponsibly to me so that they do not endanger me. Like I can't threaten others. That's why I think article 103 is in place. However, I am pleased to see that in Ljubljana, where I live, there are many more people who follow instructions that respect regulations that respect the boundaries that we must have among ourselves in order to remain healthy. Solidarity is coming into play. I think that this crisis will also bring something good: a sense of responsibility to each other and solidarity. However, I am confident that the law in its superstructure will continue to bring the necessary corrections because of possible errors or possible loopholes in the law that have overlooked those who need the most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Let me remind you, we are still in Article 22 or Article I, which is an amendment. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I see there's still interest. I'm asking you to sign up. Three have been reported. The first one gets the word Andrej Chernigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u174	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In this place I would like to thank all the voters and voters who have given me confidence, you colleagues for a warm welcome to the Slovenian home of democracy. I start my first performance in difficult times, but I believe that Slovenians will know, as we have done many times before, that we will step together and overcome difficult moments. I personally support the Law on Intervention Measures to End the Covid-19 Epidemic and personally think that the basic purpose and priority of this law is first to solve lives and human dignity, and secondly, this law, with all its incentives, achieves the economy and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia as soon as possible. I am aware that in such a short time it is not possible to make a perfect marriage. As my colleagues and colleagues have said before, good laws have been drawn up for more than half a year, and unfortunately we are limited in time here. As I would like to point out, we may have forgotten here to mention regular and extraordinary students, we could help the economy even more, we could help all the employees, but it is my primary priority here that these measures, if they are taken, reach citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia primarily from this Chamber. I am reassured that the ministers and, above all, the Prime Minister of the Government have told us that there will be many more areas to follow in the next package that will help the most vulnerable groups in more detail, so I will also support this law. I would like to say that I come alone from the border congregation with Italy, which is why my fellow citizens are even better acquainted and are in fact suffering an economic crisis. I would like to reiterate my support here and thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. That's a nice hello to all of us! As we have heard many times before, the ready - made marriage is very extensive. It covers a number of areas, a number of stakeholders and the government has only prepared it in a few days. That is why, on my part, we have been very grateful to all those who are involved in this marriage. Of course, because of the scope of the law, it is logical that any small groups of people or businesses or anyone could have fallen out. And since it is so extensive, it is also logical that all of us Members and also citizens have a number of comments, proposals for improvements, including additional proposals for assistance to the needy. It seems very important to me, which is also regulated by the law, that the measures provided for in this law will enter into force 13. 3. 2020. The aim of the law is to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic both for citizens and for the economy. The key objective for me is to really keep as many jobs as possible, because the crisis will, hopefully, be over as quickly as possible, and it is important that our economy, businesses, jobs do not fail at this time. I therefore welcome all the assistance provided for in this law, both for self-employed persons, businesses, workers, students and others. Of course, I support the whole law, and I will vote for it, and I would particularly like to point out perhaps what I have received in recent days a number of questions from our citizens, citizens, employees. I would focus on this part, because it is not possible to say everything anyway, and it does not make sense for us to repeat ourselves too much. This crisis allowance, which will be paid to all workers at 200 euros. Here many ask me what is going on with those who may now be on leave to give leave or hours, i.e. use of hours, collective leave, or whether they will receive it. Maybe here we'd ask for one confirmation that people will hear. Then they're employed with an average load. Here some do not distinguish between this supplement, which everyone will receive, i.e. the 200 euro, while those who are truly over-burdened are over-exposed, will be entitled to an additional 100 % hour base wage. I would also like to thank all those who are working at this time, both in health care, in shops, in logistics, everywhere, that I will not let anyone go — to all those really have one big thank you. Many ask, but those who do not have a job and stay at home because they are not working, are on hold, or those who, I don't know, are staying at home because of the protection of children, some are not able to work across borders, all those who remain at home because of extraordinary circumstances are recognised by this law for 80% of their salary. Since wages are extremely low in our environment, I would also like to stress that this compensation will not be lower than the minimum wage. And that's what many citizens are interested in. For the self-employed, we have now found a really good compromise against the first law that they will be exempt from all contributions, that they will also have a monthly payment of the minimum wage. Of course, there are quite a few comments here, I hope that you will still consider them in the next proposal, and this in relation to this period of comparison is falling short of revenue. Here I really suggest that we all, both Members and probably the government, have received a number of comments on this subject, please consider the possibility of a change in the next package. A single solidarity allowance for low-income pensioners up to €700. Here, however, I would like to point out in particular, which I am pleased to see that this supplement will also be paid by the ZPIZ to the beneficiaries of compensation, the disabled, who usually have these benefits and who are unemployed. Those who have proportional pensions, so they are partially retired, will also be paid an allowance in proportional work. There are a lot of questions here, and I'm glad you're eligible too. A single solidarity allowance is also provided for recipients of monetary social assistance, although I must say that there has been quite a bit of a nagging among citizens here, especially on social networks. There was a lot of dissatisfaction, and somehow they didn't think it was the right comparison – 200 euros for those who work, 150 for those who don't work. But I have to say here that this supplement is unique. Employees who work have a monthly allowance. The Minister responsible for the work, the family here pointed out that it was for those groups when it was suggested that children were now at home, that they did not have free lunches and lunches in schools, that most of these children were from these families, and that, for that purpose, the Ministry and the whole government decided that this allowance would also be paid to recipients of cash social assistance. As we say, of course, we all have, so coalition, opposition and all other initiatives, questions. I am aware that this law already weighs 3 billion, but I ask that all those proposals, which are the right ones, come from the opposition as well as other citizens to be taken into account, be evaluated and included in the next. One of my questions was, for example, that we somehow solved the loans in part, but those with leases did not. I also received a written reply at this time that those with leasings should also be included in the next package. Although it is not clear to me, we have also received quite a few initiatives why companies with insurance activities are excluded. Maybe you can check that out. As a matter of fact, I'm going to support the whole marriage. People, companies are waiting for the green light to come alive as soon as possible. As has been said many times today, those who quickly do, twice do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u178	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues! If in the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats thank some deserving people that we have this law on the table in the first place, we say that I also thank the Minister of Finance, our recent colleague who has spent with us on the Finance Committee all those long hours that I do not even count anymore, as well as our Chairman of the Committee on Finance, who has conducted the procedure perfectly in accordance with the rules of procedure and with all democratic principles. With regard to Article 22, which was signed by the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek, let me say that we have agreed in the coalition and have also received the government's positive agreement – we will support this amendment. I myself have been a quarter of a century in the economy, and I understand that it is very difficult to define a sufficiently broad comparative period, so that you can objectively compare traffic when we say, or invoiced realization that we are talking about here. So you can see that the SAB Group has some successful businessmen in its composition who understand and think business and business. So that's where coalition support is provided. I have quite a good nerve and I understand the whole democratic debate, and I have practically sat down for all hours on the Committee on Finance. My purely objective thinking and even disappointment was, I expected everyone to understand who quickly did, twice, yes, and perhaps even give up a little of the marathon discussions mainly on content that is not recorded in this law. I will not repeat what we have listened to – perhaps even useful, but I do not think most of it. Except for the rare exceptions, I have not seen some innovative additions to this law that really go to people, to our people and to the economy from which we all live. This economy has also experienced quite a bit of embarrassment on the Committee on Finance through a debate — yes, the opposition. I need to make this very clear here. Maybe I'll encourage someone to replicate, but I won't name anyone by name. Everyone has the opportunity to read the magnetogram. But, fellows and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, in an incredibly short time, he put the world on our heads literally overnight. Some people don't understand it, or they don't want to understand it. I guess I can't because a citizen wrote to me that I'm doing something hysterical when I'm talking about war. Because I once compared the 1991 war, the war for Slovenia, when we knew exactly where the enemy is, who the enemy is, and how powerful the enemy is — the Yugoslav People’s Army. Now we have an enemy that is significantly worse to pick up significantly more lives than the war on Slovenia, and it's going to bring us back to the economy, the standard, if you want. We can't see this enemy, we can't see how powerful he is. We don't know how long he'll occupy our lives. Recently, the Coronavirus was the problem of a third world. Something because Europe, and especially Slovenia, which is the world's populace, cannot happen. Yes, it is. Europe has suddenly turned into an epidemic, and the unimaginable closure in its own homes has become our new normality. We are now saying "stay at home". You have to stay home because it's in your, my interest, the interest of your loved ones, so you don't get them infected if you're already infected. And this is in a Europe where freedom of people is one of the key values that is presented, among other things, in the free movement of people. In their well-being, the anchored European countries, which initially reacted with great ease, responded with great determination when it really happened and when they were lost a few weeks ago – even in Slovenia – the last time they responded with great determination. According to available data, at the end of March, 17 of the 27 Member States of the European Union declared a state of emergency. They prohibited movement, closed down educational and other public institutions, restricting the working time of non-essential trades and so on. Thank God! We in Novi Slovenija are pleased that the National Assembly has not or has not yet activated Article 92 of the Constitution and declared a state of emergency. I hope and I wish it wouldn't come to that either. Provided, colleagues and colleagues, that we will all take the recommendations seriously enough, the medical instructions and strictly follow the instructions and orders of the Government, the State Assembly will not have to announce the state of emergency. This must be in our common interest. Thank God, the National Assembly is functioning normally with us, and I hope that it will go as well, so that it can quickly and effectively adopt effective laws that must first go towards combating the spread of diseases, and then towards helping people and the Slovenian economy. I repeat, if we do not do everything, if we do not realize and follow all the instructions and implement all the measures by which the spread of infections would be limited, instigated, then I say that we will throw 3 billion out the window. In some ways, as a citizen, it pains me that there is a lot of debate and criticism, which, of course, are welcome – I have no problem with being criticized – that this was mainly focused on 103rd and 104th articles of this Act, 104th articles are now gone – if we become a police state and so on, we are no longer free. According to our understanding, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, freedom is closely linked as a Siamese twin with responsibility. There is no freedom without responsibility, which means freedom does not mean that we can do anything. If I may, we have adopted a renewed, modernised core programme of the New Slovenia Party, which stands on four pillars. The first — human dignity, the second — freedom, the third — justice and the fourth — security. All these four pillars are extremely broad concepts. As far as the Penal Code or infectious diseases are concerned, we have Article 177 of the Penal Code, which speaks of the transmission of communicable diseases. The first paragraph states, quote: “Who does not comply with the rules or regulations by which the competent authority orders the examination, disinfection, expulsion of patients or any other measures to suppress or prevent communicable diseases in humans, and thus causes the communicable disease to spread, shall be punished with a financial penalty and imprisonment of up to one year.” Now the question is, how does this work? How do we control this now? How can we detect one who does not comply with this first paragraph of Article 170 of the Penal Code? How come when you don't see him, you don't know if he's infected or not? Yeah, for God's sake, we probably won't be coloring these people who are going to test. Then someone is positive — will a senior nurse or someone else color it or what? Please! That wouldn't be freedom. And here someone has to be in charge of this, and we know who it is, and we have to give him the tools to implement this article. This isn't a police state. It's in the interests of most of us. No one's got a headache, and neither am I when I install an app on this box called a smart phone, and she asks me if I'm gonna let it follow me if I let it detect my location. And then I say yes or yes. And follow me. Smart stuff. I'm sitting in the car in the garage, and he knows where I am, and he also knows that from that point in the garage, I usually drive home and he writes to me, to that and that location, to my home, I have 200 kilometers or an hour or 55. I don't have a headache. And this information has nothing to do with my health, not with the health of others. Freedom and responsibility – it goes together. We just don't recognize other freedom. I'll tell myself what Mojca's colleague pointed out. There was a lot of criticism that the law was unconstitutional. True, unconstitutional is what's against life, which is against health. And it will be formal — unconstitutional is what the Constitutional Court declares to be unconstitutional, not the National Assembly. Talk like that, yeah, that's unconstitutional. Okay, let's get this case to the Constitutional Court and let him know. But while I'm at it, we actually see now when we're sick, when we're sick, when we want a government-made law that weighs 3.1 billion euros to start working tomorrow or tonight, it's not going to work in this country. Because we just didn't see it coming. Not only the National Assembly or the Government and state government institutions, including many others, yes, companies and so on. We just don't have these scenarios produced, but what if the virus strikes overnight? And it's hard for me, it pains me that I've heard about it on the Finance Committee, but if it does, we'll invite people to the streets, and there'll be a referendum and so on. We voted ourselves to amend Article 90 of the Constitution in 2013. This amendment lays down four categories of laws on which a referendum is not allowed to be declared. But in seven years, no government, I think, has spoken to the President of the Government today, no government has been able to process these constitutional provisions since 2013, because the Constitution is not an implementing act. There must also be a law, specifically in this case a law on referendum and human initiative, which operationalises the constitutional provision. And now we're gonna do it if there's enough political support. For this law, the referendum law and the human initiative, we need a two-thirds majority. Then this three billion - year - old law can be difficult only after so long and so long. It's kind of sad that we don't have prepared procedures where the country could function normally. Perhaps we are all so objective that we understand that in such a short time it was impossible to write and cannot write an ideal law. First of all, there's probably no perfect marriage at all. Secondly, this is a case that has no comparison in the world. This is the only approach in the world so far to help a prosperous economy, from which we all live, and people. Yes, and it is normal for us to leave someone inadvertently, either the government or before Lahovnik’s task force or the consultative group, so here we are. I can show myself I have over 400 e-mails, messages via vibre, Messenger and so on. It's a madhouse. It is impossible to process so many proposals. That's why I'm on the board yesterday, and I've made a lot of people sick when I asked if anyone has a comprehensive list of all the special groups in our country that need special treatment, let them put it on the table. I know no one has one. Nobody's got it because there's probably a few thousand of these groups. But what we did last week, when we passed five intervention laws, which our government made practically within 100 hours of the oath, not 100 days, 100 hours of the oath, here in this house, we announced that we would prepare concrete measures, financially strong, to help the economy and people. So, too, now the coalition MPs, the minister, we repeat: yes, we are preparing. If my information is correct, the ministerial assembly is already sitting this Saturday, where it is likely that day and night and day will work again on the next package, taking into account the needs of the economy and people in order to keep the economy at, as they say, working temperatures and to take care of people. At this point, I also have a thought that may not even appear in the countryside this time because people have houses, have gardens, growers, and go out. I can't imagine what it's like in some housing blocks where people are locked up, literally closed, maybe there's a balcony. We also had a debate within our New Slovenia Group on how to deal with these mental distresses that occur at this time. I don't think that's possible with the law. I'm not a specialist in this field. Perhaps already by communicating with us Members of Parliament, the government. Although I must not interfere with the editorial policy of the media, television, nor national television, but perhaps some interesting show from there because people are more or less in front of televisions. We must not forget this segment either. Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues, for your attention. Of course, I will support this law, and at the same time we will continue to strive to make the next package even better and to correct in the next package what we may have committed here, unintendedly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 22? I see you're not, so I'm closing the debate. We move on to Article 24. I am putting to the debate Article 24 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 26 and to the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 28 and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 29 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB groups and the amendment of the SD Group of Members and the amendment of this amendment. Anybody want a word? Yeah. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, chairman. Any delay in action may have irreparable consequences, so we propose that this amendment allow employers to enforce aid from measures even for a period when this law will not yet be in force and the epidemic has already been declared. We therefore propose that the employer who sent the workers on temporary leave to work or where the worker was unable to perform his work because of force majeure before the law was put into force shall apply for the period from 13 March 2020. It is said that we are proposing 13 March instead of 1 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just for a little while. This amendment to Article 29, the sixth paragraph, which was tabled by the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB members, makes sense, is logical, as we have generally said that the measures will apply from 13 March 2020 onwards. Therefore, in the coalition, we also agreed that we would fully support it. Not because our government came on March 13th, but because the previous government declared an epidemic on March 12th. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Because he doesn't want to, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 49 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? Natasha Sukich, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u184	Thank you for your word, Your Honor. Look, I've warned you before, students are those who are poor, in a very vulnerable position, and they have to survive by working, let's say, in a restaurant that is currently not working. They're very vulnerable at all because it's one of the most sophisticated forms of work and there's a lot going on. They are now at great risk, purely financial, so we propose that students be treated similarly as waiting workers and compensated at least 80% of their average monthly earnings in the last half of 2019. In doing so, the content of the amended Article 1 shall be retained in the article in question and the right to compensation for lost income for students who have worked for the last six months shall be added. It is true that not all students are in the same position, and we need to know and be aware and take care of them and also take care of our future generation of intellectuals who will give this society enormously in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 60 and the two amendments of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? Violeta Tomic, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u186	Thank you. We propose in Article 60 that the text “savings and” be deleted. In fact, it is stipulated that savings will be taken into account, which will in practice mean that all those to whom the law has forgotten are going to have to use all their savings before they can apply for financial social assistance. That is why we propose that people who are greatly affected by the crisis at the time of the epidemic be helped by the country and can use their savings after the crisis to get on their feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 79 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Natasha Sukic wants the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u188	Thank you very much. It seems particularly important to us to emphasise that we want to achieve this amendment, and therefore we propose that companies should not pay profits and business performance awards to members of the management during the period of deferral of credit and other obligations under Article 77 of this Act. We do not think that this would be solidarity and not right in the crisis we are in. Of course, this law helps the economy, which is right, but it is wrong for these people to pay their profits. These are some reasonable prohibitions or conditions that prevent the management of companies benefiting from State aid from public funds from making use of this aid to pay personal income that would serve solely their own interests and reduce the funds to pay their salaries and to invest. That's what this is about, and I'm asking for your support and understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The word is still wanted by the Minister of Mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Dear Member Natasha Sukić, the content of your article is already included in Article 99. Article 99 states that if undertakings receiving this aid – also listed, which, four indents, five indents from which the titles – pay dividends or profits or rewards to the management or raise wages to the management, they must return everything they received from the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Someone else wants a word. I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 103 and the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ, SAB and SD. Anybody want a word? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to 111th Article and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB groups. Anybody want a word here? Violeta Tomic, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, chairman. Our amendment to Article 111 is linked to Article 29, where you agreed with me by the coalition Members. According to subsection 1/1, up to 1/4 of this law would apply »from 13. 3. or from the date of the outbreak covid-19’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. I'm guessing we've exhausted the list of amendments. We will be deciding on the amendments in half an hour in the framework of the vote, which is 7 p.m. and 20 minutes. This concludes the session, which will be resumed at 7.20 p.m. However, I inform the members and members of the Mandate-Election Commission, and in 5 minutes the meeting of the Mandate-Volution Commission will begin in the large lounge. Thank you. (The sitting was suspended at 18.49 and resumed at 19.20.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u194	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. I inform you that we will vote in the following order: the remaining sub-paragraphs 2 and 1 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda, these are Mandate-optional matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposals for Decisions on the performance of the functions of Members instead of a Member and a Member acting as State secretaries. The decision of the State Election Commission was addressed as the working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which reported in writing to the National Assembly. You were reported on the e-club. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving to a vote on individual proposals for conclusions. We vote on the proposal for a decision contained in the report of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, according to which he is acting as Ambassador Nuša Ferenčič instead of Ambassador Franz Breznik. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are voting on the proposal for a decision in the report of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, according to which he is acting as Ambassador of Ljubo Žnidar, temporarily instead of the Ambassador of Jelka Godec. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 85 votes against none. [[The vote was 85.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I invite my fellow Members to join us and meet with their seats, and I wish them to be able to carry out the work of both the Member and the Member successfully in their seats. [[Applause]] Congratulations. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and for the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that will solve the mag in the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and for the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Andrej Vizjak. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 85 votes against 1. [[The vote was 85.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision establishing the termination of the term of office of a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The National Assembly takes note of the following decision: It is found that Damir Orehovec has resigned from the seat of member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council and therefore ends his term as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council. That concludes this point. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on intervention measures to combat the covid-19 epidemic and to mitigate its consequences for citizens and the economy in the context of the urgent procedure. We continue to decide on the amendments tabled to be made following the review of the amendments tabled on 2 April 2020. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group of Members to Article 22 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SAB Group shall become irrelevant under number 2 and the amendment of the Left Group and the LMŠ Group of Members under number 3. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SAB Group to Article 22 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 83 votes against 2. [[The vote was 83.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the members of the Left Party and the LMŠ to Article 22 under Article 3. Mr Luka Moon, explanation on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Let me briefly explain what this amendment is about. This amendment suggests that employers who will benefit from state subsidies for putting workers on hold should then keep these workers for at least 6 months and not forgive them, in short, prohibit forgiveness. Why are we saying this? It is not a rhetorical question whether the money will reach the workers or remain the owners of the companies. If I make one case. I found out today that he's putting the workers on hold for the NLB. We know that NLB recapitalised with 2.1 billion or almost 2.2 billion euros in the previous crisis, accounting for 193 million profits last year. He's currently buying Serbia's third largest bank. Yesterday you allowed her to pay interest on frozen loans, but today this bank gave a clear sign that she was counting on state subsidies for those workers who are now being sent on hold. If you have already promised such aid completely unconditionally to companies, at least accept that they should not then forgive them if they have received a subsidy from the State in order to maintain their jobs. In short, this is the amendment. We will, of course, support him as a co-proposer in the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Comrade Victory Jelinčič, on behalf of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u197	Thank you very much. We will support this amendment in our parliamentary group. Indeed, what is happening with the Ljubljana Bank is horrendous, especially when we see that their managerial staff have some 60,000 to 110 000 euros a year's salary. That's why I think it makes sense for this amendment to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u198	Anyone else want a word? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 46. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 24. Mr Siter, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The law we have before us is social but only on behalf of us. At several points, it leaves out its so-called social objective of several vulnerable groups, as we have seen through the debate: single parents, students, pensioners and so on. One of these groups not only leaves her out, but also swords, is certainly the workers who are on hold because of the epidemic. This article in the law says that if the worker is on hold, the employer can call him to work, but this work can only be done for seven days. The question is why. If work is needed, why should people not work, why this administrative obstacle? Neither the article nor the explanation answer that question. If a worker can work, if he can receive even a salary for his work, if both health and safety conditions are provided, there is no reason not to work. Why wouldn't you enjoy 100 % of your work on the visa to be 80 % of this supplement? If he goes to work, he'll get 100 percent pay and he'll get some social security, but, hand to heart, in these uncertain times, the more difficult the goods will be. Our amendment deletes this decision, helps the worker to enjoy 100 per cent of the salary, 100 per cent of the evaluation of his work, so we will also, of course, support this amendment as the proponents.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. We decide on the amendment to Article 24. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 46. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the left-wing Group to Article 26. Comrade Kordish, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u201	This law, which we are now voting on, provides compensation for workers on hold at least the minimum wage. Of course, companies are richly compensated by subsidies for such a provision. But many workers do not have the privilege of, as we can say today, regular employment and regular contracts. One of such groups of workers is agency workers. These are eligible for compensation only at 70% of the minimum wage, i.e. EUR 490 net. Imagine how you can survive with €490 net. And of course, agency workers will lose their jobs, of course they'll go on hold. We have therefore tabled an amendment to Article 26 to the effect that agency workers are also compensated when the employer does not find work for them at least the minimum wage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 46. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 28. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 49. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 29 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Left and Sab groups shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 29 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 86 votes against 1. [[The vote was 86.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the left-wing group to Article 49. My fellow moon, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u203	Thank you very much. This amendment speaks of students who work through student travel. According to the government proposal, any student who is regularly enrolled and resident in Slovenia could receive 150 euros in solidarity aid. But this doesn't help a lot of students who have already stood up to their feet during the course of their studies, work, usually living in a rental apartment, that 150 euros doesn't help much, because it's also very likely that this student has lost his job. The students are working in the inn, the inn's closed. Students work in service activities, many service activities are closed. Students work as tour guides, which is also currently a dead industry. In order to help students who work and who cannot cover their rent with 150 euros, we propose that they be treated in the same way as waiting workers, to see how much they earned in the second half of last year on average, and to offer them an 80 % compensation for these two or two and a half crisis months, so that they do not lose their income now even apartments where they are very likely to live as tenants. That's our amendment. Yesterday, we suggested that we try to help the other way too, so that students and other tenants who lost their income could get discounts on rent. Since that has not worked, we see the only possibility that we will help this population to overcome the crisis, to help them on their income side, that is, on income and on student work, which they have lost to a large extent. We will, of course, vote in favour in the Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u204	Thank you very much. We decide on the amendment to Article 49. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left to the 60th Article under number 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the same proposer under number 2 shall become irrelevant. Comrade Kordish, explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u205	In the collapse of capitalism following the coronavirus crisis, many people will lose their income. The only way they can survive is if they go to the social work centre and ask for financial social assistance. It is the recipients of financial social assistance, whether current or future, that another group of vulnerable citizens released from this law is apparently deliberately released. Therefore, the following additions were added to Article 60 in Levica. First time. If a recipient has a certain level of savings, not even high savings, these savings are not taken into account as a refusal to grant or reduce financial social assistance to someone. Another time. All benefits under this Crown Act are not considered to be a different price for obtaining monetary social assistance. Third time. Monetary social assistance rises to the minimum cost of living, i.e. €442. Fourth time. The condition of actively seeking employment for someone receiving financial social assistance is sketchy. No matter how this crisis we are facing, someone is actively looking for employment, they will not find this job because a good part of the economy is standing. And that's it. We will support these amendments in the left hand side.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u206	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 49. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Levica Group to Article 60(2). We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 51. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the left-wing group to Article 79. Comrade Kordish, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u207	Thank you for your word. In this law, at least at formal level, certain safeguards have been put in place to ensure the well-being of companies against the management of these companies. Specifically, companies receiving measures under the Crown Act cannot pay their awards and owners cannot pay their profits. Of course, this condition is very formalistic. The payment of profits and the channelling of public money from the company is easily hidden in the company’s balance sheet items. After all, it is also one of the strategies of how money from the Slovenian economy flows into tax havens. This is also the way insurance companies accumulate millions at the expense of supplementary health insurance insurers. Moreover, this formalist guard, which is incorporated in Article 99, does not extend to all those who will receive different forms of assistance under this law. With our amendment to the 79th Article in Levica, at least this part is being saved. Any company will receive any measure from the anti-korona law for a more favourable treatment, must not pay its management awards or its profit owners. If anything, aid to the economy needs to be sunk in the protection of employees, in the protection of jobs, not in the case of leading economic individuals – from management to owners – being further greased by public funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u208	We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 49. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ, SAB and SD to Article 103. Colleague of Hefferle, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u209	Thank you for your word. In the opposition, we have proposed deleting this article simply because it is controversial and because it interferes with constitutional categories, in the constitutional rights of an individual. By the very nature of the matter, such an article does not belong to such a law. Instilling such a provision, repressive provisions in the law, which is economically and socially oriented in nature, is a kind of act in the first place for citizens who, believe me, are closely monitoring our work these days. This Trojan horse you planted for us in this marriage is so obvious that last week he put the entire professional public on his feet. Members of Parliament have received several hundred e-mails with calls from citizens and citizens not to vote on this article, so as not to allow such harsh interference in their human rights. Last but not least, they also warned the Ombudsman and the Information Commissioners. Such an expansion of the powers of the police under the pretext of preventing the spread of the epidemic, the use of this crisis to create a basis for our country to become more and more police, and citizens increasingly subject to the authorities, has been extremely distorted. When coalition Members were constantly wondering why everyone else is concerned about the content of this article, at the same time today we are hearing the President of the Government that he already indirectly envisages the introduction of emergency situations and the exclusion of the National Assembly, the withdrawal of powers and the transfer of all powers to the Government. That's kind of a horror story, and we heard it today, and I'm adding that she's a horror artist with Hungarian subtitles. This Article is broad and does not suffice with the basic assumptions provided by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia that they must be fulfilled when it comes to interference with individual human rights. Allowing the police unlimited access to the most sensitive personal data without any legal protection is unacceptable. This Article must be deleted; otherwise, in the LMŠ Group we will give careful consideration to the introduction of an initiative to assess the constitutionality and legality of this Article. This amendment to delete this article will be supported today.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Comrade Han, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We were in the middle of a health crisis. The covid-19 epidemic is not just Slovenia, but the whole world has thrown it out of the course. The consequences of the health crisis were the greatest economic and social crisis since 1945. I am therefore aware that all countries in this world need to intervene with legislation, to accept it quickly, to ease this economic and social crisis. I'm aware of the difficult situation. We have a law in front of us that, just to think of it, you've only accepted one amendment of the 70 amendments of the opposition. That you could not, or you wanted to, take into account the professional public, the economics, the trade halls, and you could also list individuals — I understand all of this. That there are many articles about the speed of the written law is unclear — all of this I understand. But, my dears, after the health crisis, after the economic crisis, we do not need a constitutional crisis in this beautiful Slovenia. Therefore, I ask you to support our amendment, the opposition's amendment, to delete paragraph 103 and to go to these repressive articles, which do not belong to the law that saves people's socio-economic status, out. And it'll make it easier to save people. Otherwise, I have a feeling that the intentions are not sincere. For two days I have been struggling to help, to be well-intentioned, because we know what we are in, but really, this article does not belong to marriage. Why am I saying this? When we wanted to solve local self-government when we wanted to save health care, you said we couldn't solve it in this law, we'll solve it in the next law. Just follow your words and throw this article out of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Colleague Sukič, on behalf of the Left Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u213	Thank you so much for saying that. I've already discussed this subject once today. In times as bad as this health crisis, when all the eyes of the public are in the hope of helping people, who are opposed to us, we are disturbing them needlessly here, we are further alarmed by Article 103, which is a grave violation of civil rights and a grave intrusion into the privacy of citizens and citizens. Regardless of the fact that two extremely controversial decisions have been made, such as the entry of police into foreign apartments or the production of photobots, anything else remains. And all of this is at least constitutionally controversial. It is constitutionally disputed that police officers can access our personal data, including specific types of data to which the NIJ is the only person to have access to at this time under the current legislation. The police have nothing to look for here. More. As this proposal of yours is read, it is not only a temporary measure for a time of crisis, as you have tried to replicate and prove to me, but this measure is permanently linked to the law on communicable diseases. If the Legislative and Legal Service warns you, warns the Information Commissioner, warns the Ombudsman, the civil public, the profession, warns the opposition that it is an article which is constitutionally extremely on torn legs, extremely questionable, which means the elimination of the principle of the division of power, as it allows the executive branch of the authorities through the police to actually constantly supervise all of us who live here, then this article is constitutionally controversial and we will give it a constitutional assessment if it does not go otherwise if you insist on it. What's the problem? In the light of the constitutional principle of the rule of law, Article 2 of the Constitution, in the light of the principle of the division of power, Article 3 of the Constitution and Article 120 of the Constitution in the light of the principle of legality. The three articles of the Constitution are at stake as regards this article. If we add to this the intention that you wanted to implement Article 104, but you withdrew it that yesterday you wanted to enforce Article 37a of the Defence Act, it is said that you wanted to give the military some police powers – if we look at this together as a whole picture, we cannot draw a different conclusion than that in times of crisis you are fortifying an authoritarian way of ruling with the help of a repressive apparatus and interfering gravely with our civil and human rights. But we don't want to live in a country that reminds us of police, military or even if I touch old times that will remember [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Colleague Masha Kociper, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u215	I can only, on behalf of the SAB, who has signed this amendment, appeal to the coalition to consider putting this well-intentioned law at risk and to question it because of one disputed article. We in the SAB have provided you with a genuine opposition constructive attitude in these times, when we need to act quickly, effectively, to offer help to people as soon as possible. I think there are so many good things in this law that it's a shame that, with one such provision, you jeopardize this, as I say, the reputation of the law. Put it out, put it in the law where it belongs, or in the law on infectious diseases or in the law on police powers that you define. Let us have a debate and decide on this Article separately. For three days now, the opposition Members have been told by frightened members of civil society. I do not agree with everyone, nor do I agree with everything the opposition representatives have said, some absolutely exaggerated, but the fact that this law does not fit in here and that it raises so many doubts, including the legislative and legal service that you like to listen to, has expressed them, shows that it would be wise to think about it and withdraw here, then through some other procedure – you are solving the matter in a permanent way – it concerns the regulation as it should be. We will also join the opposition in the SAB and consider the constitutional assessment of this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. In your own name? My friend Kordish, in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u217	Thank you for your word, chairman. Since the first evening of her reign, the new government has shown how it understands the crisis of the Coronavirus — as an opportunity to strike. While the whole country is in an epidemic, Mr. Janez Janša is at war. We could hear him in today's opening talk. From this talk, we can also find out who he is at war with — with the elective branch of authority, with a national convention that he would like to dissolve. In Article 130 of the Crown Law, we learn something else, too, that he is at war with his own citizens and citizens, because he wants to subject their freedoms and their rights to police control, although this has absolutely nothing to do with the Coronavirus epidemic. Article 103 is a step across the border that we can talk about the police state. In Levika, of course, we will support the amendment, which we also co-signed, that this amendment is deleted for paragraph 103 of the dispute.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u218	In her own name, colleague Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u219	Thank you, President, for your word. I, too, will support our amendment to delete this disputed article. We've heard the Prime Minister of the Government talk before about the cyber war, the hybrid war, I don't know what kind of war, I want to stress that we're not in war and we're not in war. We are facing an epidemic and the epidemic needs to be dealt with in a medical way, not in a war. Let's be clear. We need testers, we need masks, and this isn't exactly where this government turned out. In repression, of course. You said that this would ensure health and that there were temporary measures in Article 103. You know, these measures are never temporary, they're just moving a field that's possible. Remember, the world never looked the way it did after 9/11. We're used to more control, more fear. That's the way it will be if these police powers come to life. And of course we don't want to live in a country like this. We want to live in a safe, free country where citizens can only keep part of their privacy and independence. Using the Coronavirus epidemic to increase repression seems unacceptable to us. Today we've heard about 1990, we've heard about it as if we're in a self-serving war, the same faces appear on television that scare citizens, threaten them with punishment, and I don't know what. In general, our citizens follow all the instructions, and the epidemic is slowly dying, so there is no need for you to instill more fear in us. Of course I will vote for our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u220	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 45. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 111. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 46. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill. I note that the second-mentioned assembly adopted the amendments to Articles 22 and 29. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third reading law. I am also not informed that the proposal would be inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Procedurally, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u221	I would just like to warn you that the 111th article you voted on was closely linked to Article 29 when you voted in favour. I just want to warn you that you know what you're voting on. The Coalition agreed that all measures should apply from 13 March to 1 April. Let's watch a little more, the law is yours, and you've run yourself over here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. Explanation of the vote on the law first on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Comrade Matjaž Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u223	Thank you very much. This final vote on Article 111 is also evidence of the unfortunately unclear nature of this law. The four articles say that the law will enter into force with 13. 3. In the last 111 in the transitional provisions, it is said that the law will enter into force with 1.4. Not to mention other articles. This law somehow shows that it is really unclear and I hope that the institutions and entrepreneurs will get as much out of this law as possible. It is difficult to be, we absolutely agree, against such a law that gives 3 billion and 100 million euros to the country or to people, I agree. However, when there is a provision in such a law that is constitutionally disputed when the Legislative and Legal Service draws attention to this, when the Ombudsman draws attention to this when the information officer draws attention to this, when the Constitutional Lawyers from the left and right-wing authorities draw attention to it. But I know that this is the least important, and the opposition, which unfortunately you do not want to hear, and I, as well as the legalist and also the person who understands everything, cannot support this law. Therefore, the Group of Members will also abstain from this law. However, I ask everything I have heard today that in the third law, which is supposed to come 14 days earlier and otherwise start working with the position and opposition, because this is the only way we can solve problems together and for the good of the people. I hope this story doesn't happen again, which now lasts three days. I'm disappointed. Our client is also disappointed by this last article. Will one lawyer be able to explain to me what is going on now or when we will have a copy tomorrow, since when does this law apply — 1.4. or 13.3.? Thank you very much. You can't vote for a law like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u224	Thank you very much. My fellow moon, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u225	Thank you very much. I heard about this law for the first time in the National Security Council when I was invited to a wider world. When I asked Mr Shirtzl how the financial recovery of the crisis would be handled, they replied to me, together with Prime Minister Janša, that this time it would not be a buzzer, but was preparing an anti-surf with which we would certainly be pleased in Levica. Now that we look at this law and its frameworks, the country will invest 3 billion euros to save the Slovenian economy and the people who will be hit or already affected by the economic upheaval, of course we can agree with this purpose. But the problem is that this marriage is incomplete, that this marriage is full of holes, and that this marriage has been directly destroyed by the coalition and the government with its arrogance. The legislative and legal service made comments at 83 articles of the law, including those of a constitutional nature. Although, of course, it is customary and more than it is appropriate that laws, especially so important, which distributes 3 billion money, should be aligned with the Legislative and Legal Service, 22 articles have been corrected since 83 articles. Why? Probably because they closed as many articles as possible yesterday and that today the opposition has been able to table as few amendments as possible. This is the first reason why this law is technically incomplete. The second reason why it's not done is because it's a different kind of arrogance, and that's up to the opposition. In the opposition, we have prepared over 70 amendments to this law. These amendments were not a guess like the Prime Minister wanted to show today, but the opposition is a bit of a nuisance, and we're working. These amendments were all substantively justified and they all had a damn good sense. We listened to a patch of holes where we spotted them. We've been listening to help self-employed people who can't get your help right now. I just got some messages earlier, like from a self-employed culture. She wrote: “I had no income in February, but I had it in March. Does this mean that, in fact, I will not be entitled to help?” Yes, I'm afraid you won't. That's the law they wrote. We tried to help students. We tried to help the tenants. We have tried to oblige companies not to forgive workers for whom they will benefit. We have tried to make a more just formula for pensioners so that those who have 701 euros will not lose completely and those who have 2 euros less will receive 130 euros. But no, our words were from the wall. And the strawberry on the cake is this 103rd article. These are the reasons why we cannot support this marriage. For the most controversial [[Excluding microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? My friend Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u227	Mr President, thank you for saying so. We will support the draft law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that solutions are going in the right direction. After the first package proposed by the government 10 days ago, the second package of legislation weighing more than €3 billion is now ahead. This law and the measures provided for in this law, however, improve the social situation of people in particular. Low-retirement pensioners will receive one-off aid of between € 130 and €300. Students will receive €150 assistance. We have not forgotten those who are entitled to social assistance, which will also be paid 150 euros. We have not forgotten here about the mitigation of the effects of the Coronavirus epidemic, even for companies that will be paid contributions for compensation for those who will be on hold. All these compensations exclude financial institutions such as banks and insurance companies. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this is a law that will mitigate the consequences of the coronavirus crisis, which will allow life in Slovenia to return to normal lines after the epidemic has ended. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are confident that the government of Janez Janša and the coalition will take into account all these proposals that have been made in Parliament and have been made by various organisations in the third package being prepared. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that there is no country in the world that can only solve with one law all the consequences of this epidemic to Europe, South America, North America and Asia. We are confident that the only way to deal with the effects of the Corona virus epidemic is through joint assistance. We are convinced that in this law what citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia mean at a given time: this is health care, employee insurance and company insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Comrade Duck, in your own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u229	Thank you for your word. Politics in the 21st century is not an area of conviction. I can be sure that the earth is flat and slightly curved. Politics in the 21st century is a policy of opinion. Another time. Any government is the government of all citizens and citizens, not the government of Janša, Kordiša, Trčko, these parties, the fifth, the sixth parties. Third time. Members of Parliament are representatives of all the people. This also means that Janez Janša is my representative and that I am his representative. And as a representative of all the people, I must also try to understand the whole people. Yesterday, I read all the amendments in the back office, I worked on all the amendments, but this government, this coalition, it's a very large part of the people that represent it, doesn't, or doesn't know, or can't understand. And yet this unfortunate 103rd article that definitely doesn't fit here. I can't support a marriage like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-02-SDZ8-Izredna-33.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 1 Member. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. That concludes this point. I also conclude the 33rd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly. Stay healthy! The meeting was closed on 2 April 2020 at 20.10.
