ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 54th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, Article 60, paragraph 1, and Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and on the basis of a decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly adopted at its 87th meeting. 12. 2020. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mag. Bojana Muršič from 2 p.m. to 2 p.m., Iva Dimic, Ferenc Horváth, Jože Tanko and Samo Bevk until 3 p.m. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the following Members and Members have announced, for today, their participation in a meeting outside the meeting of the National Assembly using the remote application: Mag. Carmen Furman, Eva Irgl, Anja Bah Žibert, Brane Golubović and Franc Kramar. I invited representatives of the government to the meeting, both items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! In accordance with the second and fourth paragraphs of Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the agenda for the sitting of the National Assembly shall be set at a distance by the College of the President of the National Assembly with a reference, so we shall not vote on it. We're moving on to one. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Volunteering in the State Assembly within the framework of the shorter procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 37 Members and Members with the first signed Maša Kociper. I give the floor to Mr Kociper to the representative of the proposal for an introductory explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u2	Dear Members, we do not decide on just one law today. We decide on a very important marriage. President Pahor would say that we are deciding on the most important political issue. It is about how in the democratic system, the system that we also have in Slovenia, people, voters, elect their representatives to the National Assembly. What system? According to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and under such an important law, the founder has determined that this law must be adopted by a two-thirds majority, which is the majority that we need today to amend this law. When the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia established that the existing electoral system was unconstitutional, since it did not allow for the consistent application of the principle of the same electoral right, it also set a time limit within which that assembly, the honourable Parliament, must amend the law. That's 21. 12. 2020. Today we're 18. 12. 2020. So the deadline is Monday. Although the Constitutional Court has made two possible avenues for resolving the anti-constitutional situation, one is for the constituencies that are at issue to be abolished and for the preferential vote to be put in place, the other is that the constituencies change accordingly – for the time being the second law that regulates the electoral thefts and their change and allows this change to take place within a period of time, it is not even in the National Assembly. Members, in particular those who have been so determined and loud when you spoke about how constitutional decisions should be implemented, including those very doubtful about private education, I hope that you are aware of your responsibility. Today, we will therefore decide whether, on the committee, the law has received support on whether we can provide a two-thirds majority in this national assembly to finally have a decisive impact on who their elected Member will be. We all know that in the existing electoral system, voters decide to be a party. And also those Members who may be taking great credit for having been elected by the electorate, I think you are aware that the key role of the party is crucial. If your client did not place you in that district, if you did not get enough high majority throughout Slovenia, you might not be elected either. Today, this law introduces a second option. The possibility for people with a preferential vote known from the European elections to determine precisely who from the list proposed will be elected as their representative, as the one representing their voice in the National Assembly. We are therefore removing the constituencies, which would only remain at administrative level, and for the preferred vote we are setting up a system that people know very well from the European elections. And one more thing, the threshold that is set for someone to get ahead of someone, if I say so at home, is very low – to 4.5%, even lower than it is after the European elections. Since no borders have been adopted the last time, the candidate lists must be filled, it is said that the party must be able to provide a sufficient number of candidates and offer them to the electorate. There is a lot of talk in the last few days about whether this system is good, better for Members. Indeed, there is a great deal of risk for Members. It will be far more unpredictable who can be elected in the National Assembly or not. At the same time, it proposes great added value for voters and, hopefully, the candidates can also have a positive impact on greater electoral participation and may also contribute slightly to the voter confidence in the work of politics. Let us not forget, representative of the people, the Member is, under article 80 of the Constitution, a person representing all citizens and citizens, not just those who have elected him. Local interests, the interests of the municipalities are not represented in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, but are represented in the State Council. This may lead you to make decisions. Moreover, as in European and local elections, this law also entails the need for equal representation of both sexes. On each candidate list, at least 40% of the sexes should be represented and the so-called zipper is also envisaged, which allows us to be truly evenly represented. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to consider, after a good debate, whether this is a suitable change in the electoral system and to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered this proposal at its urgent meeting on 11 December this year. The proponents presented the advantages that their proposal offers, according to them, are said to have a slightly greater impact on the electorate. While others have been alerted to the centralisation already under way in Slovenia, some of the proposing parties as well, and on the other hand, to allow the current arrangements, with the corresponding corrections required by the Constitutional Court, to be more evenly covered by the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia, and thus to further ensure more equitable regional development. Finally, in the vote of 10 of the proposed amendments, 8 received the appropriate support. As with the law, it is necessary for amendments to achieve an absolute two-thirds majority on the Committee as well. With 13 votes in favour and 6 against, the eight amendments were confirmed, and two of them received too few votes. In the final vote, the text, together with the amendments adopted, also received the same support, is 13 votes in favour and 6 against.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u5	I give the floor to the representative of the Government to introduce the opinion. The opinion will be presented by Boštjan Koritnik, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u6	Dear Members and Members! The proposed change to the electoral system, which envisages the introduction of an optional relative priority vote with a view to greater personalisation, is one possible way to implement the Constitutional Court decision. Nevertheless, with regard to the proposal, the Government emphasises that a broad, broad political consensus is needed for the adoption of the amendment of the CFSP, since a two-thirds majority of the votes of all Members are required for the adoption of the law governing the electoral system. With a view to the removal by the Constitutional Court of non-compliance, the Government, following the launch of the mandate and following the conclusion of the consideration of the January 2020 amendment of the ZVDD, has not received sufficient support or sufficient votes to propose a substantively equal change of the electoral system, as proposed now, further attention has been given to the regulation of the new division of electoral thefts. The deadline for implementing the Constitutional Decision is 21 December this year. In view of the above and the fact that the Ministry of Public Administration has been working intensively with the parliamentary groups for several months to prepare amendments and to supplement the law on the establishment of constituency units for the election of Members to the National Assembly and that this law also follows the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision, the Government considers that, as it is necessary for that law, the general majority is more appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. The position will be presented by Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u8	This year, the National Assembly is already facing another attempt to enforce a decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, in which the Court found that Article 4 of the Law on the establishment of constituency units for the election of Members, which sets out the areas of electoral districts, is inconsistent with the Constitution. This is because it no longer meets the criteria laid down in the Electoral Law after 26 years. The deadline for the elimination of non-compliance shall expire in a few days. With a view to eliminating the constitutional non-compliance identified, the previous coalition, in which SMC also participated, proposed a new Law on Elections to the National Assembly proposing a substantively equal change in the electoral system – the introduction of a relative optional priority vote and the abolition of electoral thefts. So the same as it's supposed to be now. In the SMC Group, we will also support the upcoming novelism this time. In the SMC, we are in favour of such changes to the electoral system, which will actually ensure the greater impact of voters on the election of their representatives to the National Assembly. Voters in the current system cannot choose between different candidates on the list of candidates, because only one candidate from each list is present in each constituency, and the voter does not actually vote for the candidate but selects the list. The consequence of such an arrangement is that the electorate does not actually have an influence on the choice of individual candidates within the list, but votes on the lists or political parties that propose them. Therefore, in the existing, existing proportional electoral system, we need changes to implement the principle of the personalisation of elections, which will allow for the election of those candidates who will receive the highest number of votes and allow the latter to complement the proportional electoral system with a preferential vote and the abolition of electoral thefts. It is true that the proposed amendment is only one of the possible means of implementing the Constitutional Court decision, but according to our assessment, it is the closest intention of the founder to write in the Constitution in 2000: “Members, other than Members of the national communities, are elected in accordance with the principle of a proportional representation at the 4% electoral threshold for entry into the national assembly, with voters having a decisive impact on the allocation of candidates’ mandates”. The preferred vote proposed is similar to what we are already using to elect Members to the European Parliament. According to the results of the elections so far, it is easy for voters to understand and to have a decisive impact on the election. In fact, it is in favour of the fact that, in the last European Parliament elections, all Members were elected or elected by preferential vote. We are aware that electoral rights are one of the fundamental political rights of citizens and citizens. This right is exercised indirectly by the elections of their representatives in the National Assembly. However, with the constitution of a coherent election, the conditions for democratic formation are both legitimate and also legal legislative branches of government. Therefore, the National Assembly is obliged to vote, either within the time limit set by the Constitutional Court or at the latest before the call for subsequent elections, to amend the electoral legislation which will follow that decision. Even though this amendment to the electoral law will not be adopted, we have no choice but to try to form and adopt amendments to the electoral borders. In this regard, the SMC points out that the search for a political compromise must not constitute risks that could lead to a re-negative decision by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has clearly stated in its decision that all the criteria for the formation of electoral units and circuits must be taken into account simultaneously and that no criterion is greater than the other, except where there are valid reasons for this. The last proposal for a new bill on electoral units and constituencies does not fully follow this argument of the Constitutional Court, as there will still be a considerable difference between the smallest and the largest electoral districts. At the same time, some with this proposal are calculating how best to be elected in the next elections. This is not a good way to find compromises, nor to implement the Constitutional Decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u10	Thank you. Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! On 8 November 2018, the Constitutional Court found one very important issue, and this is that our electoral system has a serious problem with the electoral borders. In its decision, it challenged or found that they were in breach of the Constitution of Article two of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Law on Elections, which sets out who was elected from the constituencies for Members, and Article 4 of the Law on the establishment of constituency units, which essentially defines all the constituencies that we have in that country and represents practically the whole law. The main problem raised by the Constitutional Court is the imbalance between the constituencies. That is why he gives this exemplar example between the smallest constituency in the country, Hrastnik, and the largest, Grosuply. The ratio between these two is 1 to 3.73, which in other words means that the voter in Hrastnik has almost four times the voter in Grosuplje. Following this decision by the Constitutional Court, following this finding of non-constitutionality, the President of the Republic decided to conduct a negotiation procedure so that representatives of parliamentary parties could find a solution to this problem, for this problem. In these negotiations, they have proved to be possible or the only solution to the changes in electoral thefts in order to satisfy the findings of the Constitutional Court, or the abolition of electoral thefts. As far as the voter turnout is concerned. The Constitutional Court has very precisely defined the conditions for their equality, and this is the geographical rounding and the common cultural and other characteristics of these areas. This is one of the basic definitions of the constituency. Another requirement, and the second assumption is that these constituencies must be approximately the same as those of the population or electorate. As part of these negotiations, the Ministry of Public Administration, led by Mr Medved at the time, has drawn up a proposal by the geographical profession and other experts for new electoral districts, saying how to change the constituencies in order to regulate what the Constitutional Court requires. For that proposal, despite much effort and knowledge being put into it, we can, unfortunately, argue that it is very unlikely that the requirements of the Constitutional Court are not sufficient. Arithmetically, let's say, let's coordinate the size of the polls, it's said that the numbers of the population or electorate in the constituencies could be roughly the same, but this inevitably violates the other part of the definition, this geographical and cultural criteria. This would give us a law that would very likely fall again in the Constitutional Court. Thus, following the conclusion of these negotiations, the idea of amending the Electoral Law to abolish the constituencies was still prevailing among the 59 members of the National Assembly. You have this law back on your hands today, and we'll make another decision about it. As has already been said in the introduction, we need two-thirds of all Members, with 60 votes. What is crucial and why it is important to adopt this law is the following. We should first clarify whether our electoral system is such that it requires representatives of the electoral districts. Of course, the answer is clear — it is not. Article 82 of the Constitution makes it clear that Members are representatives of all the people. As an MP from Kopra, I must, and it is my duty to represent the people of Murska Sobota, the people of Kočev, the people of Hrastnik and so on. I'm not just a MP, I'm another constable, but I'm a member of everyone. That's the first thing. That is why this law is important because, on the one hand, it simplifies the electoral system by, in fact, aligning it with the other two electoral laws, in particular the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, where we already know the preferred votes, the preferred votes, the voters know them and use them, and thus, in some way, would make it easier for the electorate to have some confusion, which nevertheless occurs in the elections. The deadline set by the Constitutional Court is rapidly approaching, as stated,21. December. It is the responsibility of the National Assembly to take account of this decision of the Constitutional Court, since elections are one of the foundations of our constitutional democracy and of the multilateral elections, also something that is an inheritance from 30 years ago that we all swear to. In this way, the parties who appoint candidates for elections to the National Assembly after the election units shall be the parties and the electorates shall decide who is responsible for the Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u12	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In its decision at the end of 2018, the Constitutional Court found that Article 4 of the Law on the establishment of constituencies for the election of Members to the National Assembly in breach of the Constitution and ordered the National Assembly to abolish the constitutionality found within two years of the publication of the decision. According to the Constitutional Court, the article is contrary to the Constitution, since it sets out the electoral boundaries after almost three decades of the first democratic elections in Slovenia no longer meets the criteria laid down by the Electoral Law. The Constitutional Judges found that the difference between the smallest and largest constituencies in the country by the number of electoral beneficiaries is too great and is increasing. With this, the government and the National Assembly faced a politically extremely difficult task. The implementation of the Constitutional Court decision was reflected in either an extremely difficult change in the electoral borders or the abolition of those and the introduction of a preferential or priority vote. The President of the Republic of Borut Pahor actively participated in the search for the right solution, who convened several consultations of political parties, where we were looking together for the best possible solution and a common denominator for the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. In Novi Slovenije, we have advocated the proposed solution in these talks since the beginning, which brings the abolition of the elections and the introduction of the preferred vote. At the beginning of the talks, we were like most constitutional experts that, in order to realize the Constitution, the most appropriate introduction of an absolute priority vote and the introduction of a domestic principle by which the proposed candidate should come from the constituency of the candidate. Unfortunately, we have remained lonely in these proposals, and we have further supported the proposed solution that legitimizes a relative priority vote. We also have a similar way of voting in elections to the European Parliament and have been accepted by citizens, voters and voters as their own. We are confident that this would give voters and voters a decisive impact on the choice of Members. We have been in New Slovenia and we are confident today that we must seek wider support in finding a solution, so it seems important that we are today discussing solutions that require 60 votes, which represents a constitutional majority. What solutions does the proposed amendment of the law bring? It foresees the abolition of electoral thefts and the creation of candidate lists at the level of the electoral unit. The voter will be able to give the vote to a specific candidate or vote only for the list as a whole. A candidate will be elected on a single list, which will receive the highest priority votes provided that the number of priority votes exceeds 4.5% of all votes in the list. Gender representation is also increasing on the list where the opposite sex will have to be represented in at least 40%. A system of attachment is also introduced in the first half of the list, where the sex will have to be represented alternately. The bill also contains a proposal for amendments or a simplification of the way in which members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities are elected to the National Assembly. In all recent elections, we face very low electoral participation. In Nova Slovenija we are convinced that one of the main reasons for such low participation is also the feeling of people not deciding who will really represent them in the National Assembly. The abolition of electoral thefts and the introduction of a priority vote will have a decisive impact on the election of Members from the political party's leadership. With this, I hope we can help restore confidence in politics.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u14	Greetings again, respectable and respected! One person, one volt, is a generally established principle, which is referred to as the principle of equal electoral rights in our country and is enshrined in Article 43 of the Constitution. It requires, however, that all voters have the same number of votes and that all votes have the same pre-emptive option to be taken into account in determining the electoral outcome. The principle of electoral equality therefore requires that each voter bring equal numbers of votes of equal value to the electorate. The latter, as we have pointed out many times, is now under question. Two years ago, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia found that the constituencies, as we know them, no longer meet the criteria set out in Article 20 of the Electoral Law for the National Assembly, which deals with approximately the same size of the electoral districts. The differences between them have increased in 26 years so that they have become enormous and no longer guarantee equal rights for voters. However, they do not take into account the boundaries of the present congregations or the criterion of geographical roundness. In other words, because of the differences in the number of inhabitants and the current form of electoral thefts, the voter's voice, in smaller districts, is, say, greater than the voter's vote in larger districts. Otherwise, discussions on the appropriateness of the electoral system at different levels in Slovenia have been held virtually since the adoption of the electoral law in 1992, which has enacted a proportional system complemented by majority elements. Since then, the law has not undergone major radical changes until the year 2000, when it was completed and a supplement was adopted to Article 80 of the Constitution. A constitutional dictatorship has been established whereby voters have, or should have, a decisive impact on the allocation of mandates. However, this requirement has not yet been consistently fulfilled, and its implementation would have made it possible for today’s law to be implemented. In the SAB party, we are working on something to offer the favoured vote to the voters as a solution to the dilemma that people should be more represented in the elections and have a decisive vote, as well as a solution to this constitutional dilemma, from the decision of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, together with the proponents, we have reintroduced this law, which is before you today, and on which we Members have actually voted and decided already in January. The proposal, as has already been pointed out, thus constitutes the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision and, on the other hand, a more consistent implementation of the requirement of Article 80 of the Constitution on the decisive impact on voters. The law has gone through very long coordination and the comments of almost all parties have been taken into account, and yet, as always in every law, the best possible compromise remains. As it is said, it introduces a system that voters already know well from the European elections, while at the same time setting a very low threshold in a relatively preferential vote, lower than in the European elections, allowing candidates to skip the candidate before themselves. If I finish. Elections are one of the most important expressions of human sovereignty, the basic condition for the democratic formation of the most important organs, in our case our National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. And we must all take part in this seriously and responsibly. Winston Churchill once said: “Politics is not a game, but a serious business.” It is our job to follow this principle, especially on such an important issue. In the SAB, we are convinced that without the amendment of electoral legislation and the introduction of a preferential vote, there will be no greater impact of citizens on the election to the National Assembly, nor can it be expected that there will be a significantly different composition of Parliament. Perhaps, however, we could also influence our participation in the elections. So the question is whether we will continue to tactfully or step forward. People have chosen us to represent their interests, as they want, and in this way the people they trust. Today, with the support of this law, this principle can be realized.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The electoral system must be such as to enable all political parties to be represented in Parliament, in proportion to their electoral results, in proportion to the proportion of votes they received in the elections, compared to the number of votes cast. The requirement that a proportional electoral system allow the establishment of a legitimate parliament that best reflects the structure of the whole society is a theoretical concept that cannot be fully realized in reality. The main thing is that the derogations are as low as possible. When changing the proportional electoral system as it is in Slovenia, at least three variables must be highlighted: whether the voter's vote affects the party's entry threshold, or whether it affects how many parliamentary seats it will win, or whether the party's candidate will be elected. The answers are clearly positive, the spears break around the intensity of the voter's influence, which candidate will be elected. The proposed changes to the electoral model are thus aimed at strengthening personalisation and strengthening the decisive impact of voters on the allocation of sent-out mandates. The assertion that the electoral system, as defined by the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, is inconsistent with the Constitution, because it is not intended to ensure the decisive role of voters in the election of candidates for Members, is based on the State Council's initiative to assess constitutionality. The Constitutional Court in its decision did not raise any issue in any place, except that it found any non-conformity or inappropriateness of the current electoral system. On the contrary. The Constitutional Court has made it clear that the current electoral system rules cannot deny the fulfilment of the condition that voters have a decisive influence on the granting of the terms of office to candidates, so that the current system is in conformity with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has not repealed the electoral regime, but has found its non-compliance with the Constitution. Between the two alternatives, the reshaping of electoral thefts or their abolition at the same time as the introduction of a priority vote at the level of an absolute or relative constituency, the applicants decided on the second: the abolition of the thefts and the introduction of a relative priority vote. According to the proposal, the electorate will act in the same way as in the current system, only with the difference that he will have 11 candidates in the electoral unit and not just one candidate in the constituency. The leading idea of such a type of demagogies is manifested in a noticeably grotesque form. It will still be a choice between different parties as in the current system, only choice will be broader, more comprehensive. In practice, the electorate will be faced not with an electoral ballot, but with an election sheet of A2 format, as much as half a meter and a half, on which will be between 150 and 200 names. Voting on the basis of such, difficult to transparency, but what is questionable from the point of view of the voter's decisive impact on the election of Members. There is a legitimate fear that the representation will focus on people known in the wider area, at least at the level of the electoral unit. The emancipation of candidates from smaller places and rural areas will be greatly reduced. We cannot talk about at least the approximately equal regional representation of the electoral body in the National Assembly. It is misleading to assume that the mistakes of parliamentaryism are the fault of electoral architecture. The electoral model affects the results of the elections and the conduct of their deliberations. Election results have an impact on the customs and practices that bind to them. The performers of all this are political protagonists. We should therefore professionalise politics, because it is misleading to think that politics should be addressed by all those who are overpowering only a powerful and boundless ambition. The capacity for political action, coordination and skills to achieve the objectives is due to the curves of experience. They can't be reached with any election model. Members of the Desus Group will vote unanimously against the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u17	Thank you very much. He will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u18	That's a nice hello to you all! In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the proposal tabled by the opposition. It is about making the first elections in 1992 in the same way. It was a country-based list – and he went to Parliament first from the list, second from the field, third from the list, fourth from the field and so on. Of course, gentlemen are the successors of the Communist Party – at the time the United List of Social Democrats – changed this to prevent customers from putting the best candidates on their list. So we came to this strange system of sort of lottery today that no one ever knows who's going to get in. It certainly prevents political parties from putting the best candidates on the top of their list. And given the kind of candidates that come from the current system, you can see for yourself that in the National Assembly, there are a whole bunch of ignorant, breadwinner and people who have no interest in helping the country, but have an interest only in their own interests. The fact is, we can't let this happen. The National Assembly deals with matters of vital importance for the whole country, not for a specific local community from which a candidate comes. Now it's happening that candidates call their own small number of voters, who are sure of their place or district, for drinks, for sausages, for half a liter of wine. And then they're elected. It's not about the best coming in, it's about the ones who bought two sausages instead of one. This is a system through which we simply cannot vote nowadays. It was mentioned that it would be difficult to read a huge voice that would have so many and so many candidates. But I think every logo of every political party is clear enough to know who it is. After all, we are Slovenians, despite all the writing, at least after writing, we belong to the European Summit. That's how I'm not afraid to find anyone here. But it's all kind of stupid. Already in the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, we have Article 7, which states that the one who is 18 years of age on election day can be loved and elected and elected. I think that in all the history of European Parliamentarianism there may have been three such cases that on the day of the election someone was just 18 years old. The old law said he must be at least 18 years old. We could have written for at least 18 years and avoided those traps again set by the descendants of the Communist Party in the first 1992 elections, so that if they got a bad result, they could invoke the invalidity of the elections. But then that's what's left. And that leaves a lot in our electoral system. We will probably also discuss amendments, which are foolish from the point of view of the Slovenian National Party. After all, is anyone afraid of leaving clues, of who elected whom? I don't think so. As far as women's quotas are concerned, two administrative courts in Tübingen and Brandenburg have declared this to be unconstitutional in two countries, the two states of the Federal Republic of Germany. And then we ask ourselves again what the third sex is going to be like, whether they're going to ask for their quotas or something like that. In short, that's where you need to be fixed. As for this law tabled by the opposition, allowing a priority vote for those who can skip the one in the first place; this has happened in elections to the European Parliament. I think that the system, such as the elections to the European Parliament, can also work well on Slovenian territory. We will, once again, support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u20	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! There is only one point where all science fully agrees when it comes to electoral systems that every electoral system in a society works differently in a country. And it is not possible to just copy systems and expect the same effects in another environment, because the social environment, due to its history, tradition, everything that consists of it, transforms what is expected to be the effect of the electoral system. When we assess the effects of the electoral system in Slovenia, we have more than a quarter century experience now and we can only find one thing, the impact of the proportional electoral system in the Slovenian environment is catastrophic. It allows cows to buy, these people refuse, so the mandate falls to electoral participation, causes instability of governments, an unstable economic environment that is not so interesting to investors who do not allow long-term business plans and is a real disaster for Slovenia. Today we are talking in a framework that has, unfortunately, been drawn up by more than 60 Members and Members, who, contrary to the clear will of the people, wrote down a proportional electoral system because their pants were shaking in defense of that area under the vine. This is a sad truth about what we are actually facing today. It's already been forgotten. This was the moment that was the biggest blow to the development of the Republic of Slovenia. If the human will and the system of the majority were then respected, believe me, everything would be different. Respect for elected Members would also be different, a different relationship between national authorities would be different, the methods used within the policy would be different, but all of this remains open. If we would like to, today we are listening to the strong exhilarating words, in fact to achieve a compromise that would be a developmental one that would be a state-owned one that would mean a new perspective for Slovenia, significantly better development, then the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia should first be amended and a pure proportional system should be put out and thus allow one compromise to be actually productive. What would it be like to create the stable economic environment that entrepreneurship needs, probably purely majority in these circumstances, because it has to vote on the National Assembly, is not possible, only a combination of two electoral systems could be possible. The combination is also still proportional to its effect. A combination of two electoral systems, where approximately this number of Members would elect proportionally, Members would be willing to accept this as their own risk, and then, say, a one-round majority electoral system for several additional cities, which would lead to stabilisation, which would prevent games, which would make it impossible for cows to trade and would be for the long-term developmental benefit of Slovenia. This would require at least 60 statesmen in the National Assembly who would be willing to discuss this seriously and to take appropriate solutions. Today we are really deciding only one dilemma. If the constituencies are lifted, this allows within a slightly broader environment a slightly greater choice on the individual party with all the advantages and disadvantages that this brings. If we retain the constituencies, this prevents further centralisation and makes it possible for all parts of the Republic of Slovenia to be significantly more evenly represented, it is said, even in the perspective of the existing, unfortunately, octrominated, imposed constitutional framework to be more equitable and equitable regional development, which is certainly in the Slovenian interest. That is why the SDS gives priority to this and we will vote against the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Rudi Medved has the floor to present the position of the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u22	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! In the List of Marjan Šarc, we support the abolition of the electoral districts and the introduction of a priority vote. We support a decisive step towards the electorate and electorate, who will have an extremely strong tool in their hands with a priority vote on who will represent them in the National Assembly in the future. This is also a step away from client calculus. Step away from the jitters of a Member, whether the party will place him in an elective district or what will happen to his district in the event of border changes. Dear Members, we are ahead of an extremely important decision, a decision on which voters can truly form a political picture of Slovenia. We are not proposing a change in the electoral model simply because it is virtually impossible to find a consensus between political parties on changes in the electoral borders. Not because the electoral borders could not be harmonised in such a way that, according to the number of voters, they would be about the same size. During the time of the government of Marjana Šarca, we have prepared such a proposal at the Ministry of Public Administration, but it was expected that many Members would not accept it, because it reached into their current constituency. The borders of the robberies were drawn by experts. Unlike the current minister's proposal, which we have not yet seen, as far as we know about it, is entirely based on the guidance of the SDS party, which would only cosmetically repair some of the thefts in accordance with its own electoral mathematics, and the differences in size would still remain in our belief far beyond the constitutional framework. The current election model does not give the electorate a choice within the party. It's basically a forced preferential voice. Therefore, the abolition of electoral thefts together with the introduction of a relative priority vote at the level of the electoral unit, according to the opinion of Lista Marjan Sarca, is significantly more democratic than the current regime and puts the electorate at the heart of the decision-making process. Opponents of the abolition of electoral thefts want to continue to resort to overcalculability by placing candidates and candidates in more or less electoral areas and holding on to broken urban myths that the countryside will be evicted from Parliament in order for smaller municipalities to have no members of their own. There's no analysis to pin it on. On the contrary. We have prepared an analysis, and I will also be able to present it, which speaks the opposite. We argue that the voting model with a preferential vote, in addition to the voter's voice being equivalent throughout Slovenia, will also more fairly divide representation. Of course, it is difficult for a Member or a Member to get out of the comfort zone or, as is now commonly said, from the bubble of his constituency. It's hard to face competition, even if it comes from one's own party. However, if you are able to put voters at the heart of the decision-making process, if you put on the side of purely personal and party interests, the decision will not be difficult. However, if you only take voters as a tool to achieve personal or client objectives, if you do not want to give voters a decisive influence on who will represent them in particular in the National Assembly, then everything will be the same. But voters now know that there is another option. And we can't forget, voters are always right.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u23	Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u24	President, thank you. Have a nice day! In Slovenia, they have an established so-called proportional electoral system based on a very important principle, a principle of solidarity, whereby candidates and candidates of the same political party together gather electoral votes to obtain as many seats as possible in the National Assembly. This means that Members and Members of the same candidate list are directly and indirectly elected by voter votes from all over Slovenia. But sometimes we all have little or no awareness of this solidarity, which is not right. Much has already been said about what the current Amendment and Supplementation of the Elections Act brings to the National Assembly. I would agree with some of the thesis, but with some thesis absolutely not. The proposed abolition of electoral thefts and the introduction of a relative and optional priority vote means the way we know how to vote in the elections of Members and Members of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. The practice of past elections to the European Parliament has shown that this is a form of vote that is close to the voters, and it is not surprising that they are also very much in favour of giving a priority vote. The key unconstitutionality of the current regime is too large a difference in the size of electoral thefts, but at the same time we never say out loud that the different size between constituencies means the inequality, in particular, between candidates and candidates of the same list. Once again, this place forgets their commitment to the principle of solidarity in voting. The abolition of election thefts would mean that voters would have a greater choice of individual candidates or candidates for certain lists. That is why the Social Democrats advocate the so-called principle of the full list. We believe that every party or list wishing to run for election must be able to obtain a total of 11 candidates and candidates. However, it is a matter of running for the highest legislative body, and this condition, I hope, is not exaggerated. It also shows the seriousness of the candidacy itself. Last but not least, political parties or lists in determining candidates in the electoral unit are not bound by the principle of patriotism, which means that the permanent residence of the candidate or candidate does not play any role, which we think is wrong. The full list solution is also the most fair in terms of the same percentage of the required votes that allow for the election of the candidate and the candidate with the so-called preferred votes. In addition to the above, a total of 11 candidates and candidates mean that voters' votes will be more divided and, as a result, candidates and candidates coming from smaller or medium-sized districts will have a slightly greater choice. It is very important for the Social Democrats to introduce a 40% gender quota parity with the bill. This is now the case for local and European elections, while for elections to the National Assembly this percentage is currently only 35%. Social Democrats would like to draw attention to one more thing that is practically ignored in all debates on electoral legislation. We are talking a lot about the greater choice of voters, about such or other forms of preferential vote, we are talking a lot about the different size of electoral thefts, about the unequal position of candidates and candidates due to the fact that there will be no confusion, of course this is very important – but we are almost never talking about the fact that from year to year the differences in the number of voters and electorates in the electoral units are increasing. Even as a result of demographic movements, we have come to the point that the largest electoral unit has 226 thousand voters and the smallest electoral unit has 202,000 voters. The difference in number is more than 10%. However, from both constituencies it is essentially the same number of candidates and candidates, that is 11. As a result, we can see that there is a significant inequality between the electorate and the electorate in the electoral unit. The law we are considering today does not address this issue. Regardless, we will support this law and we will support it with 10 votes in favour of our party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the SAB, SD and Levica parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. Please sign up for the debate. The proposaler, Rudy Bear, has the first word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u26	Thank you very much, President. For a brief moment, I would like to respond first to the government’s position, which is mildly said unusual. This view also proves that the government lives one’s own life, regardless of what is happening within the coalition. The government has rejected the support of the law that we are considering today and has ruled that it is better to change the boundaries of the election thefts. Yeah, everything's fine and fine. But here in Parliament, the two parties who are in this coalition support the changes in the electoral law and are in favour of abolishing the borders of electoral thefts. Very unusual. Here you can see the way this government operates with the strong hegemony of the largest government party. Nor is it true what the Minister of Public Administration has said about this speech, how the ministry, with all the parties in the National Assembly, has coordinated their proposal, which we have not seen at all, on changes in the electoral borders. That's not true. I'm not gonna say it's a lie, but it's a lie. In the opposition, we have so far received on one sheet of paper a sketch, a little coloured here, a little colored there, with some – allegedly the borders of election thefts. We don't even know how this came about, who drew it, or who did it in the afternoon's free time, and it's supposed to be the basis for the opposition to draw it to change the boundaries of the election thefts. Of course, we didn't see the other one. However, as far as we know, what the Minister of Public Administration is supposed to offer to the coalition has not been prepared by the Ministry of Public Administration, but this has occurred within the SDS party with these minimum amendments to the electoral borders, which we believe will still be outside the constitutional framework. We have also heard a marked underestimation of the electorate by one of the Members, who, first of all, is talking about the demagogies of this proposed electoral system. Demagogy is also a way of electing Members to the European Parliament, which is going in exactly the same way, but it is a problem with a slightly larger voice, and here it underestimates the voters so that they will not be at the polls. In doing so, he is, of course, jumping into his own words by saying that it is necessary to achieve the professionalisation of politics, the professionalization of the National Assembly. It is precisely this amendment of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly that leads to this, we can call it professionalization, because parties, candidates of the candidates of the force, literally forces them to run professional people with integrity, those who know something and are recognized in the wider environment. When he speaks of the proposed change in demagogies and, on the other hand, demands the professionalisation of Members, he practically jumps into his back. And also the response to the eternal mantra of the largest party in the National Assembly on the urgency of the majority system in Slovenia. You see, the very way in which the largest government party operates within the framework of the current coalition with subordinate partners is the largest anti-propaganda for the majority system. The biggest anti-propaganda. They also do everything they do to ensure that people in this country never do, but they will never really accept the majority system because they know exactly what kind of trap they would expect. The current rule is a kind of caricature of this majority system when the subordinate partners in the coalition obviously have no word and the largest party in any way rules according to the principles of the majority system. They say they would see how different principles would be in the situation of the majority system. We can see that now. We can see that now. Also because of the experience we have with the current government, it is all the more important to maintain this proportional system, which has been established in our environment and has also been adopted by citizens and citizens. Within this proportional system, the introduction of a relative priority voice is a reliable step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Chairman. Perhaps I would point out in the introduction that I find it extremely unrealistic, but also extremely untransparent, that the Minister who proposes to amend electoral legislation has not yet presented this amendment to the opposition. Three days from now, there is a deadline set by the Constitutional Court. On the other hand, we have before us today a proposal that is really a step forward in relation to the practice we have so far. We need to ask ourselves whether we want more democracy than we do, and if we want to deepen this quality of democratic decision-making, then it is certainly a step in the right direction to give the electorate or the electorate some influence, some preferred voice. It is said that a proportional system by abolishing electoral thefts and introducing a relative and optional reference voice. Giving a preferential voice within the chosen political party is certainly a qualitative step forward, in some right direction. It is also not clear why in the country we would have different electoral systems when it comes to elections to the European Parliament and, on the other hand, to a completely different system when it comes to national elections. Therefore, if this system, which we are proposing today, works well in the selection of European Members and Members, I see no reason why it would not work well this time. The proportional system ensures that the composition of the National Assembly actually reflects the whole society best. That's a fact. A relative preferential voice allows for a lack of confidence in the client system, or at least excessively does not strengthen the belief that individuals play a major role rather than a party's programme. The optional preferential vote allows the electorate or the electorate to decide for himself or herself or to favour the electoral programme and the political option as such, such as by giving the vote only to the list of candidates. And he doesn't force anyone into this preference. But if someone thinks someone's the best choice, that's an option. However, this is not the case in this way, as has been the case with practice. In fact, we do not have or do not have the option of any real influence here, but only the influence on which party they want to choose, but in the case of candidates and candidates it stops. Respected and respected, I think it is time that we somehow contribute to the maturity of our democracy and that we really take a step forward, but not that we are spinning in the same place because of some partial interests of some individuals and individuals who may be afraid not to be elected again to the National Assembly. That is how I hope that you will still be able to achieve political will and that we will support this proposal today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u30	Thank you, President, for your word. We're here today for a matter of great importance. There are two expressions, one is egocentricism and the other is egoism. Egocentrism is nothing more than that it was usually used for children. So they want to do everything in a way that's one person's story and history. This is also happening right now with this government, if that's what we're looking at. Everything has to be arranged and arranged around Janša. Thus, such a system becomes self - centered, especially as they want it to be. What is egoism? Egoizem sees only himself, for his own interest, even at the expense of others, but only that his interest is paramount. That's what you call a misstep, completely missed. Elections are a system that must enable people and people to decide who will represent them. And the change in this system that we now have here on the table is the one that gives people the opportunity to decide who they want to represent in Parliament. So it's the opposite of an egotistic system. People and voters need to see the value, the added value of a person for the country and for the whole system, because there is a whole system here, a complex system. The worst is what I've heard before, where the pure foundations of individualism are based on the basis of selfishness. That's not how it can be, and I'm absolutely against it. I personally don't care if I'm going to be in Parliament next. However, I would be proud if the people, the honest people, chose me and gave me the opportunity to prove myself in Parliament. That's why we're here today. Not because someone wants to see who gets in, but because people see the added value in that man. And that also makes it a preferred voice, a preferred voice. You know, there are important things here, and I think we need to take this seriously. Plus, just hold on for a little bit, just a few seconds about it. You must know that today we do not have 90 Members in our Parliament, today we have 89 Members, because one Member has been seriously ill for six months. We are without one Member and there is no way for a Deputy Member to come. So this is where we have to study the matter. Because it's not just about us, it's gonna be about other things. A single problem is also a woman who has every right to bear a child and cannot be in Parliament for a year. And he has the right to. Lucky for you, that's why. But we don't have a system, a regulation or a law on MPs to solve this problem. That is why we have been here for six months now, the President, 89 Members, not 90. Let's leave it, it's not an argument for today, but I think it's gonna have to be put on the table as soon as possible. This is not just for us, but for all the Members, they all have the same problem. I think the purpose here today is clear. I have one of my mottos, which I repeat repeatedly, to find one purpose in change. And this change, which is here today, is also deliberately very positive, good for us, for the citizens, for the parties and for the people. And once again, whoever votes against this law today is an egoist. One egoist, clean. He's not thinking well for people, he's not thinking well for the population, he's not thinking well for the progress of our country, but we're looking at ourselves. This is no longer a democracy. In a democratic country, a man must be elected from the people, fair and must be given the opportunity because he wants that person in that particular place. That's why we're here today. I stand firm for this position, and I know that people want to, people want such a system, a system that they decide mainly, so I will absolutely support this law. So much for me. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Janez Moškrič has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! Let me also be allowed a slightly broader debate, but I say at the outset that we are not changing the constitution, so I will not talk about the majority electoral system, which was also discussed. I come from such a district that the applicants would say is unpredictable, so I have no personal ambitions or egotistical intentions whatsoever. However, I would like to point out a few questions that would then be answered by one of the applicants if he wanted to. Elections are also enshrined in the Constitution, in the so-called 80th Article of the Constitution. It has already been said that it was the last, so Article 5 is amended a little later, in 2000. However, if we read the first three paragraphs, we find that in Slovenia there is a number in the area of thefts or Members who are loved by citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And this number was also reflected in the constituencies. That's why we had and have electoral boundaries. The great dilemma has been, and apparently, constitutionally, that these areas have changed greatly over the years since they were put in place. That's an indisputable fact. Even how it came to be found so late by the legal profession, but now that we are in a position to do so, we are also in the middle of a mandate, which is why this date, which is before us, is important, but not fatal, could be said by those lawyers. I stand for the view that this number 88 is an important number. It is also somehow because of this desire of the then candidates to have representatives of the people in this Parliament. It was said how important it is for people to know the influences, the parties will make powerful people after your new proposal, and then we are almost asking ourselves whether the representatives of the people are advocating this principle because the influence is one individual who has a stronger public function. That is, when we have representatives of the people on our ballots, it means that we have at least the most representatives of the parties. Who's the client? The party, however, is an individual from the local area. How can an individual run for office, or why is the client running for office? As a member or as a non-member, we know it doesn't matter. But it's because they consider the parties and those who run to get to know them. We also know where it says, in the book of all the books. So the preferential voice is important from the point of view of the works. Then let's ask around here. When we have elections to the European Parliament, when you say so beautifully that this preferential voice is used there and this vote can be decisive. We also saw a big leap on one of the leaves. Why? Because there are only eight candidates. In elections to the European Parliament, the parties are running, we will not say influentially, but again people after their works, people who are known over the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, across. Because if you want to be a European Member, you also care about the wider community than you do about Slovenia. That's why they were famous people, well known to every resident. This preferred voice is also used at the lowest level, at the local level. There, too, certain elections take place in this way, perfectly normal. This local community is once again smaller and there, we will say, we already know each other from outside, not only from that political or public area, but a large majority of people get to know each other so individually, they say they know each other, they can even be friends, which is also right, that we are as much friends as possible, in the village, then in the bloc, it doesn't matter which community we live in, or even in the field of employment. At these two levels, the preferred voice can be used very nicely. But when we come to the national elections, we get a completely different picture from your proposal. In particular, my constituency, which I belong to, stretches from Domžal to Kočev. But here I find it difficult to say that all 11 candidates know us by our actions. It is, however, a very large area that stretches across the whole part of Slovenia. So it will only then come to the point that if a party can run for president, perhaps an important former minister, an MP, there will be a clear picture of who it is. Of course, I've become a little more famous myself in the last nine months, but by then I haven't, but there have been some elections. So I don't think such a singing voice is a key criterion. Nor was the purpose of the constitutional decision in the sense that the preferred vote could solve something, because these differences you said would occur even if today's law were passed, even at the level of the electoral units. The real difference will be. In view of the development of Slovenia, there will also be a resurgence as a part of Slovenia or some local communities are still developing better, and in certain parts the country is investing a little bit more in housing policy in terms of public housing or some municipalities are applying this principle more to public housing and some less. So there is a very large fluctuation, so I'm sure it can't be a criterion, but it can be measured by the fact that the candidates on the ballot are familiar to the electorate. That's what's after those 88 election robberies. Nor is the completeness of electoral legislation in the sense that, unfortunately, it turns out after calculations that 88 is equal to 88 seats in Parliament, we get the margins with the two candidates elected by the Members, and the areas where they are not. I also believe that this could also be corrected by a proper mathematical formula for at least the first reference. Then we know that the formation of a government is coming and that it is impossible to fulfill this principle, as we discussed in a single round yesterday. But no matter what, we know that the minister is home somewhere, and we've got the whole of Slovenia covered again. And that's the purpose of every serious customer, at least I think. All members of Slovenia work for one common good and we are distributed throughout Slovenia. Then our influences, perhaps the famous people in Slovenia do nothing in this sense, but for just one piarian promotion instead of some poster. I will vote against this amendment myself. I hope that the parliamentary law will be put into effect as soon as possible on the issue of the repair of electoral thefts. How is the rest related, given the number of voters in the district, to say that we can never implement the decision in such a way that we can fully guarantee this principle to all the parameters that have been pointed out by the Constitutional Court? You know that 212 congregations are said to be municipal boundaries will never be a criterion, but they were built on old administrative arrangements, then valid ones, which people know very well. For 20 years, we've said it's a long time or a short time. In people, you know that certain things that aren't a priority of the first order that they don't deal with daily, monthly, and weekly, but several times a few years, they don't care enough to remember exactly. Thus today, even though local self - government was regulated in 1994, we sometimes say that we are going to the congregation, and we know that they are going to the administrative unit. They still have that very old arrangement, which was ingrained for so long and is now more bound to administrative units than to the new congregations. I believe that this marriage solution can also give us an even more fair electoral system, which was also intended for a constitutional decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Joseph Lenart has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear guests from the Ministry, nice greetings, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a bill amending the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, which was tabled by the applicants, and as was presented that the amendment of the law follows a constitutional decision on constituencies which are disproportionate, one too large, the other too small, the difference is too great. It is proposed to end the electoral thefts and some other changes are proposed. One is changes in sex quotas and the full list of candidates. The sex quotas are then also touched by the amendment to Article 14, which we are discussing, has been tabled by the SAB, which in fact wants to increase the demand for equal representation of both sexes on the candidate lists. With this thesis I can somehow even agree to some extent, but it is not possible to ensure that the parties succeed in all the constituencies then also complete the leaves with 40% of one sex. I'm touching here more than that some customers already have a problem getting women on candidate lists. So if someone doesn't want to, then it's hard to fill this list with these 11 members, 40% of whom must be one sex. This full list also refers to the amendment to Article 16 concerning the full list or full list principle, which is also mentioned in its comments by the Legislative and Legal Service, which states that the so-called full list may be constitutionally disputed. So if you don't fill out a list of 11 candidates, this list falls, it's rejected, and those 10 candidates you had, in fact, loses the opportunity to run. Then there were a number of uncertainties, including differing opinions, from this address. It should also be said that this has now been tabled for the second time, and it is still submitted with a mannequin of the signatures of the applicants. President Pahor said that a political consensus should be reached with 60 votes first, but we do not have that now and we are trying again. If we are to see that the Commission of the Council of State against the abolition of electoral thefts in this bill and that voters and local communities were against the abolition or against the proposal of this law for the abolition of electoral thefts, we must be aware that the Commission of the Council of State is composed of people who have received support in local communities. That is why I think that voters also know what is right and what is wrong and what is going wrong, and what is going on in the direction of political centralising if we have not already centralised this country sufficiently on all other salaries. With regard to the perceptions of the candidates that the changes to the election thefts have not yet been made. They couldn't be invested now, because this is invested, that's the first. The second point is that the Ministry has prepared repairs of the electoral thefts, which will in fact be submitted from this title after these unsuccessful attempts, which we have on the table today, are over, and also have sufficient support for 46 votes. Moreover, it is certain that we all want Parliament to be a good, quality one, but, given such assumptions, without any basis, the system that suits someone, that I could then also touch on the fact that some of the candidates or the candidates are connected, and some of the candidates who were not elected under the existing system in 2018 are, of course, more motivated to make a change, but then to be elected in the new elections. These include some presidents of opposition parties. If you are already trying to guess how Members who disagree with you are thinking, then we have a right too. I have to deliver a message from the voters and local communities of the Slovenian Mountains that the proposal for an end to electoral thefts is not worthwhile and that is why I cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u35	Thank you very much. For the proposer, Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u36	Thank you very much, President. If I respond briefly, I repeat what is essentially the basic dilemma, the constituency, or the abolition of electoral thefts. The claim that the proposal for the amendment of the electoral thefts is not tabled because we have introduced the electoral law into the National Assembly is not true because these two laws do not regulate the same matter and could both take place at the same time. The problem is that all members of the National Assembly have not yet seen the proposal for electoral thefts, because it slides into what is the greatest risk if we go to change electoral boundaries, and it is so-called gerrymandering. It is said that the change in election circuits in order to achieve the desired election result in the light of some past election experience. In short, each party tries to draw an electoral district in such a way as to suit it as much as possible. And this is also one of the main problems of election theft. Since some are constituencies, I will say, traditional, they are nevertheless predictable and they belong to whom, among the indications, they belong. This is then also a long-term problem because you can have absurdities that appear to come from some of the thefts for several years in a row or more of the elections in a row, and on the other hand you have municipalities, I do not know the whole microregion that has never seen a Member in thirty years. And here is the advantage of this change to break the electoral borders. I'm stressing again. We live in a democracy that is essentially a party democracy. We can't go blind, and I don't think there's anything wrong with that. The Party shall have the responsibility to propose as best as possible a candidate list. If she cares about some kinds of regional representation or that she reaches as many people as possible in the electoral unit, she will be in her interest to propose candidates coming from as many different places as possible, from city centres, from rural areas and so on. It is said that in some ways the logic of the current election thefts will still have to work because the party or the client’s list will provide a higher number of votes. If we are all against centralism, of course no one is crazy enough to propose only candidates from city centres, because it will produce results in rural and small areas. So I think this concern is over. It is the responsibility of the party to bring together as many candidates as possible who will be identified in their local environment and who will be able to draw the whole list forward. Why are the State Council and local communities against this law? The Council of State is the one who actually cooked the whole matter by putting the law before the Constitutional Court, which is nothing wrong, but I think it is also a long-term or long-standing conflict, which is a silent conflict between the Council of State and the National Assembly. The State Council is there, representing local interests, and it is also right to do so. However, it is not the National Assembly that must necessarily represent individual local interests. The National Assembly, as it is said, is here to provide as much prosperity as possible and as much legislation as possible for all citizens and citizens. It is difficult to understand the role of a Member as an exclusive messenger of local interests. These local interests sometimes, unfortunately, then also mean the partisan interests of some particular municipality, some particular regional units, which can, even if you want, prevail over some wider interest, which is wrong. It's just wrong. Thus, the impact of individual mayors on Members should not in fact be. This was one of the reasons why the functions of MEPs and mayors have been incompatible for some time. That's right. But as for sex quotas, I don't see it as a problem. I think that this amendment that we have tabled is even better, because it does not provide some vertical clamping, it is called gender uniform representation, but also horizontally between electoral units, and that is the effort that we all have to make. I believe it's hard. It is also justified, based on historical experience, that certain people do not want to go into this electoral battle, because many times women have been neglected and placed in so-called insufficiencies. I think our task as a whole of society is to ensure some equal representation of both sexes. Here this positive discrimination, as it is called, is completely justified and I think there is something that needs to be worked on.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? Yeah. I'm asking you to sign up. The first one has the word mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Once again, I would like to point out that we are prisoners of an imposed, octrolated article in a constitution that speaks of a proportional electoral system. In a normal democratic country, something like this and in theory should never have happened to the State Assembly to accept something that is totally contrary to the clear expressed human will and which even the Constitutional Court warns, to judge legally, repeatedly, that it is binding on the National Assembly. All those big words are too big for that. If we wanted to talk seriously about the changes that would have been developmental, which would have been long-term Slovenia's benefit, which would have prevented to the greatest extent possible trends, which are unfortunately since independence, then we were five times ahead of Poland, Hungary, the Eastern bloc, today all of us are ahead of you, so you're just watching. That's the result of our electoral system. Then it is said, as previously said, that one of the problems is that there are too few quotas, so that people do not choose to apply. I mean, it could be a stupid game today, but, look, this is, of course, a complete nonsense. We have to ask ourselves how things have been done in the past period, how many leaps have been made, how many have there been what people have understood as betrayals, and then there will be an answer to what it is. Of course, the question of what we have done ourselves in 30 years of Parliament. There is one provision, which is unfortunately also constitutional, that you should not do anything with it, and then it is overplayed and there are half of the Members on some additional payment sheets. Then it's systemic corruption inside. Much better this is arranged in Germany, there is no limit, you can own, you can be responsible in your company or whatever you want. And it's perfectly normal. What's the limit? Under no circumstances should you operate with the State or with those companies where the State or the local community or the province is the owner or co-owner. And then in people's eyes it's said, yes, because everyone is incompetent, and then there's this cheap demagogy about lowering wages that's been there for 30 years, and it's started once by the SNS, and then there's a competition that's going to be better, and in every next term there's more people coming from the office of business to parliament. Instead of being in Parliament those people who have achieved the most, who are capable, who have proven to be able to help develop with their experiences, with knowledge and everything. That's the problem. But with the changes we are talking about today, we will not solve this in any way, because the general problem is the electoral system, which cannot be solved within the proportion. However you turn around, the proportional electoral system is still a proportional electoral system, it's still unstable, people still reject it, governments are still the fruit of allowable cow deals, instead of making it clear what the voter's decision is. And this one should be known that night and then valid. Then it would be different. But without a change in the Constitution, such changes cannot be seriously debated. All that is said today without connection is always suggested to her, how some do it out of personal interest. Come on! Those of us who are the most famous in Parliament would be the preferred voice if it were personal interests. But I am deeply entertained by the abolition of election thefts by some of the greatest anonymities in this House, and they remind me little of that herd of lemmings that fly against falling apart with a smile and ecstasy and that no one understands that anyone will ever come back from the abyss. This is just a situation because they will be defeated by any local cheerful or anyone who is minimally known at the elections. But these are all dilemmas that are broader than this debate today. Today, the debate is really just about whether you give a little more choice to a wider area or whether you make a little more even coverage of the area. Everything else is a bluff because everything else is a proportion. And it will always be the result of the proportion of what some say is that there is one in Parliament, which has 300 or 400 votes, but there is someone out of Parliament who has 4,000 votes. This is the result of a proportional electoral system. It's not the system's fault as it is currently being submitted. Even if there had been a preferential vote, there would still be a preference in there for another 400 preferences, but there would be someone out there with 7,000 preferred votes, which would have been given a government-level mandate after the proportional distribution that is made after d'Hondt, which would have been that party's mandate, and for sure. All this talk is one pure demagogy. It is only a dilemma whether to give greater uniform coverage to the whole country, which ensures the current solution, or to allow within one list a slightly larger choice in a wider area. Everything else is irrelevant, because it would require much more movement. And I've talked about this before. If we had opened the Constitution, if we had thrown out this imposed article, which is a disgrace, it was a national shame that we had an octroated article in the Constitution, then we could talk about what was really developmental in the interests of the state. However, we could come out of one compromise that I mentioned earlier that everything remains as it is now, but one part of the additional vote that would be loved in such a way that it would lead to mergers before the elections, to participation before the elections, because it would be clear to people and at the same time give them more power and confidence in their voice and would stabilise the system. Look at the point we're at, what's going on. Today it is collapsing in the middle of the pandemic of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. You're not gonna see this anywhere. It's only in Slovenia. This is the result of a proportional electoral system. Is it in the national interest, or is it in the security interest, or is it in the development interest? It's not. This is the result of the political calculations of those who would like to take office at all costs. They don't do that anywhere. Vaccination is about to begin. No, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is collapsing. Welcome to the proportional electoral system! And you can reverse it one way or another, it will be such a smug person who is not in the interest of voters, who is not in the interest of a country that is not in the development interest which is not in the security interest, will always be the result of a proportion. Whatever you do, set it up. Since the proportional system is one that, in the Slovenian situation, after 30 years it is more than clear, always leads to the most rotten cow trades even when it is expressly damaging even the lives of people, the safety of people. Just like it is right now. Just what is happening in Slovenia right now is the best proof of how devastating is the proportional electoral system for Slovenia. However, we are dealing with whether we are going to break the constituencies a little bit or keep the constituencies more evenly covered. That may be one legitimate question, but, excuse me, there's nothing that depends on what you've all been saying here today. This would require a much broader debate, the opening of the Constitution, the search for compromise and, of course, what I mentioned at the outset, at least 60 statesmen in the National Assembly. For today the Constitution can only be changed by the National Assembly with an appropriate majority. If I had once accepted my proposal, I would have advocated you, the introduction of a Swiss model referendum whereby, of course, under extremely strict conditions, the people would also change the Constitution, there would be another open way. But now she's gone. Now the only possibility is for a change in the National Assembly. Do we have 60 statesmen in the National Assembly? At this point, I can honestly say that, in view of the discussions that have taken place with the President of the country where I have already opened all these dilemmas at the outset, I strongly doubt. And I'm afraid it won't be for long. But Slovenia would need this. Slovenia would need a stable, development environment where it would be attractive for entrepreneurs, where entrepreneurs could plan long-term, where there would be no change. Today, nobody in their right mind would think that the moment the vaccination against the world pandemic is coming at the height of the second wave, the existing Government of the Republic of Slovenia is being disrupted because it is in direct conflict with the interests of citizens and citizens, because it is extremely contrary to the security interests, because it is in stark opposition to the development interests of this country. But this, ladies and gentlemen, is possible and is the result in the Slovenian environment of a proportional electoral system.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I will ask the Member this question whether it is better to bring down in the middle of the epidemic a government that shows extreme authoritarian tendencies and where your SDS party is already acting as if we are in the majority system, or whether it is better for your notions that democracy is collapsing. Fortunately, we still have a proportional system, and fortunately, we have an opportunity to defend this democracy. If we had a majority system, all we could do now is observe this horror and, of course, submit and leave it. And that would be the recipe for disaster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I propose that we use the replica for what it is intended for. If someone was misunderstood, he would tell what he was in and explain his point of view. The next one has the word Boris Doblekar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members and Members, Mr Koritnik, Minister of Public Administration! Yes, in the opposition, you have just drafted a bill amending electoral law with some emphasis that people, voters can make more direct decisions or appoint elected Members or representatives of the people. If you remember, just where you were loudest now, in 2000, there was an opportunity for a majority electoral system where voters could make direct decisions, perhaps more than in a proportional system, but then you smoothed the issue. That's what you need to know. I hope you're aware of that. Now you're trying with some new attempt to end the election thefts, and if you've listened to the statesman, the policy that's the longest in politics and you've got a full mouth every day, he said that this is your proposal, that is to say, the abolition of election thefts, the assassination of rural areas. And that's true. With your proposal, the countryside or the periphery or smaller regions would lose the possibility of co-decision in the National Assembly. It is quite clear that elected Members would come mainly from larger city centres, which is quite clear. I hope you are aware of this, too, and you know this, and it is also likely that the elected Members would be from larger centres, where there would be more options for elections, more votes, more concentrated voters, more media promotion and so on. Members from the periphery would slowly disappear, which means it's centralisation. That's probably what we agree with. I suggest – this is just such an alternative proposal, given that we would just break the electoral borders and leave only eight more constituencies – that you unite the parties in the opposition and quit. You shut down the customers and you'll all be one, just after some system of colhos where private farms have been shut down, destroyed the farmers, and merged into colhoses. It's a system like that, and that's how it works for me if I pull a parallel to just take out the constituencies. When I listen to people, voters in both rural and urban areas, especially the smaller ones, are absolutely against it, or they are very much concerned about the abolition of the constituencies. Mr Rudi Medved said that this was a proposal, a second variant of the amendment of the electoral legislation, where there was talk of the reshaping of certain constituencies due to the excessive deviation of the number of voters, that the proposal was also prepared and had already been made public. He says it's an SDS proposal, he's been talking about some things or almost lies. This is a real lie. This is not a proposal from the SDS. Mr Rudi is also aware of this, but he has made a conscious statement. And that they were subordinate coalition partners, which, of course, they didn't, and they're probably well aware of that. Some of the opposition say you've seen these proposals, some sketches, some say you don't know anything about it and so on. So you're good with everything. I can only say this if it was not a proportional system as it was, if it were not, when the new party was running, a private list, i.e. a private list, i.e. if it were not a political party, but a private list of a person, i am talking about the list of Marjan Sarcas who ran for the elections, i believe that they would not come with such a number of Members to parliament if they were elections under this system, which you are now proposing or supporting. If you had recalculated something, you probably wouldn't have this private list of a person, so strong, if we could call it so strong, support with a few MPs in Parliament, since these were mostly new faces, which was also the goal. So the new faces you came to the National Assembly with this list, they probably wouldn't have come through this system because they wouldn't have been so recognizable. Probably. So I think that candidates who aren't so recognizable or who don't have some kind of long political mileage, even though people in smaller regions or in rural areas would be elected and wanted, wouldn't come in because they would be beaten by candidates from larger city centres, with more media support, with more voters and so on. It's as clear as day. So thanks to this system we are here in your company or you in ours. And Mr Bandelli, with all due respect, said that the egotist was anyone who disagreed with this proposed new law. Everyone's selfish. That was a little strong, too. Such a statement should not be made here in Parliament. I don't know why elected Members of the people would be egotistical if they disagreed. Then we can pull this parallel on every single thing. Also, Mr Bandelli is an egoist who disagreed at the meeting yesterday with the downfall of the left-wing extremist. So we can't exactly say that everyone is egotistical. But everyone has their own proposal, everyone supports a matter, and it also depends on what the electorate says. We're all coming from some field, from some electoral base. These small parties, I used to listen to a client of the SAB, which is also a list, namely the private letter of Alenka Bratušek. A small party, I'm sorry. Look, we can't be all the other parties or MPs guilty if the client is small. Can't be a dinosaur lizard. Never, never. I believe you're looking for solutions to somehow slip through a small door in the National Assembly. And that's right. Some of the parties are tiny and some of us are big. It's also dependent on the last part, the electoral base, the system itself, how things work. There can't be a little party now who we are. Given that we have already heard how the lists of these candidates and candidates will look more like when hundreds of names are up, how will they be drawn out? I believe that in elections a person has to take time and choose a candidate to represent people in Parliament, but I still think that this would be such a huge deal, especially I don't know how to get older. I think there'd be a lot of problems here. That's it. You say, yes, and the leaves will then be given a proportional voice by a member of Parliament, who will be chosen by the electorate. After all, the political party that is running with its Members is already choosing the candidates that she thinks are the best. And they're also the best because they work best with people, with electoral bases, if they've already been Members. But if they haven't yet, they're gonna make it happen. I don't know why the voter should have doubted what the party was proposing. Do you doubt yourself? If you, honourable Members, your party, political or private letter or anyone already proposes, I believe that you are the best to be trusted and that you know that you will represent people well in the National Assembly. I don't know why we'd give the voter a chance here to question what the party has prepared for the voters to vote on. So once again, the abolition of electoral thefts is a rural assassination. And once again I lay upon the soul of all those who have trampled upon the will of the people in 2000 through the majority system, which the people desired after the decision, and you have trampled on it, and today you are talking about that through some majority system within a proportional system, people could make the same decision by abolishing election thefts. Something's not working out. Let me finish. I'm in favour of decentralisation, so I can't support this proposal of yours. I am in favour of equal representation throughout Slovenia, not only of the municipalities and major centres. I'm also for smaller regions to stay that we have representation. Smaller regions, such as Zasavje, which will lose representation because Ljubljana, Celje, Novo mesto, will not go anywhere else, eat and no more representation. But I am also in favour of having a demographic and developmental impact through their representatives, i.e. through MEPs and Members. I'm in favour of this, so this proposal of yours, which promotes centralisation and some system of colhoses, where they can break the electoral borders, I'm afraid I can't support it. And once again, for some smaller client, especially the Sab client that I used to listen to, if you're small, you're small and you can't impose on everyone your will to become big. And in the end, the south has never been a Mercedes and never will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Reich, do you have a procedural proposal or something? [[advertising from the hall]] Make it relevant to the application of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u44	I would like to call on all my colleagues to use the facts in the debate, especially if they come from a party operating under the pyramid system. The louder you are, the more lies you spread, the more meetings you attend, the higher you come after the hierarchy. It's the smallest and shortest list there is. This is a client with the shortest list, a list created by the Director, who has been the director of this company for 30 years. It's a SDS party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u45	Mr. Reich, this is not a procedural proposal. You've abused this institute. Please refrain from such actions in the future. We're moving on now. Mr Rudi Medved, Mr Dejan Kaloh is ready. Here you go, Mr. Rudy Bear.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u46	Thank you, Vice President. I don't know, he's been doing a lot of divination because he predicted the future not only for the client of the Marjan Sarca List, but for all the customers, except for the SDS, for which this future is bright and bright. And he's talking about private clients. I don't know where that came from. A political party is a person of public law. But it is true that it can work in the private interest. But this, my dear colleague, your client is demonstrating in the best possible way through not only this period of power, but throughout its lifetime. In fact, it sounded like we were already discussing a constructive mistrust. At least that way, my colleague Grimes could understand how outrageous the overthrow of the government is. We're talking about the electoral system today. I don't know, there is no debate today about any constructive non-trust and we don't overthrow the government. When you speak squeamishly of how we now deal with certain electoral boundaries or changes in the electoral system. Yeah, that's not much. We are meeting the requirements of the Constitutional Court's decision, and we are trying to do so even before the deadline, unlike you, who, with these changes in the election circuits, have literally been sweeping since spring and no one has submitted this law to the National Assembly. That is why we acted in a state-of-the-art manner in the opposition and went into a new attempt to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. Otherwise, this decision of the Constitutional Court is highly manipulated, especially in the case of advocates of the boundaries of electoral thefts or cosmetic repairs, although the Constitutional Court has been extremely clear in this decision. It stated that, after twenty-six years, this was two years ago, since the adoption of electoral legislation, the areas of electoral districts have not met any of the criteria set out in Article 20 of the Electoral Law to the National Assembly. That's what it says. They do not meet any criteria, taking into account, of course, geographical roundness, common cultural and other characteristics. That's what happened back in 1992. It was not otherwise in 1992. This situation has not changed so dramatically since then. However, the Constitutional Court, which in 1992 did not end up repealing or declaring as an unconstitutional situation as it was, already in 1992, stated very clearly in the decision that it takes into account the criteria of geographical rounding and other common characteristics and size of electoral districts, taking into account the criteria mentioned above drastically, even up to 50% of the total size of the electoral districts. This was established by the Constitutional Court in 1992. And it wrote down, not just said, it said that these were incompatible criteria. That's how the Constitutional Court wrote it down. The Constitutional Court also followed approximately the same direction in its decision of 2018, when it made it even clearer that all other criteria could not rejuvenate the meaning of Article 20, paragraph 5, which referred to approximately the same size of the electoral districts. So he can't rejuvenate. In another sentence, it said that this anomaly actually drew the other criteria. To put it simply, even if we take into account the geographical roundness, the integrity of the municipalities, cultural and other characteristics, which you claim will be taken into account in a law we have not seen before, even if all of this is taken into account, and the number of constituencies will not be nearly as large, this will also be an unconstitutional situation if you read the Constitutional Court's decision normally. This is precisely because of the conclusion that it is practically incompatible with the criteria, and this will now be seen when, if we do, we get this solution on the table, that we will be in the same situation again. Because the essence is the concept of “approximately” equally large margins. If the ratio was one to four before, it is said that the vote in a fourfold smaller district was also worth four times as much, and now it will be one to three, how in practice will you convince someone that this is about the same. If someone has, say, a thousand euros to pay and someone pays three thousand euros to tell him, yes, because you have about as much salary as I do with three thousand – yes, who's going to believe it? We know what "approximately" means in Slovenian. If the table's in the middle of space, we can't say it's about in the corner. Not if it's in the middle of space. And it was because someone had carefully read this decision of the Constitutional Court, but not because of a myth, that everything that is more than one to three is unconstitutional, but all that is less is not. If anyone has read this judgment of the Constitutional Court well, the Constitutional Court has, in essence, stated to us between the lines that we should try to resolve the implementation of this decision in a different way. It stated that the legislator has every opportunity to choose or change this decision or election model. And that's actually the whole art of this decision. This is also why we followed the decision of the Constitutional Court, or the case of the Constitutional Court, because in our attempts to change the boundaries of the constituencies, we have encountered this problem ourselves. Closer as you go with the size of the election thefts by the number of voters, it's harder or almost impossible to meet all the other criteria. This is an argument which I think is very understandable for the citizens who are the target now, but not the target of shelling, as you speak of the assassination of rural areas, the shooting of opponents of changes to the electoral law or advocates of the existing state. Because what you're preparing is actually changing the boundaries of election thefts in a way that we can change that by not changing anything. This was also required of me as Minister of Public Administration last year to change this by not changing anything. I just said I don't know how to do that. But when we are talking about the assassination of the countryside and this incredible defiance, Mr Grims also spoke about the local joys and who are also candidates or fighters for the village sidewalks. But I will now tell you about the current system, as we have all been chosen together, and do an analysis if it shows you anything else, but first you need to clear up what the countryside is for you. If the countryside is all that is outside the highway ring around Ljubljana, but I know that this philosophy works to a great extent, we are all the rest of the periphery. And that's what you say to those who come from this same periphery. But if we realize that the city is not only Ljubljana, but we still have cities in Slovenia – hello, we still have cities! And the results of the last elections show that 57 and 64.77% were allocated by voters to predominantly urban constituencies. That is to say, if we agree that we also have cities in Slovenia and that these cities also have rural areas, it follows that there have been 57 mandates in urban areas, i.e. areas where there is more population, it is usually that there is more population in these urban areas, and 31 mandates and 35.23% in electoral districts, which could be said to be predominantly rural. So much for this incredible predominance and the destruction of urban areas over the countryside if there is a change of electoral law. And one more thing, when we talk about how incredibly fair and good the distribution of mandates across all the constituencies, is the fact that we have 88 thefts, so that one Member can come from every province, of course, does not drink water. We all know that. Neither does the Constitution state that every province or congregation of its own Member must have, if the Constitution clearly states that Members are representatives of all the people. If this system now allows such an incrediblely good distribution across the constituencies, 20 of them are without a Member. I will not fall for the same vocabulary, because the district is not his Member, it comes from that province, it is not his Member, but it is 20 such thefts, from which it does not come in the present model of election to the National Assembly. And that is now this incredible fear of what will happen if we abolish the constituencies and in the individual electoral unit 11 candidates of one party represent this party in the individual electoral unit, what will then happen differently. Except that Mr. Doblekar is an excellent fortune teller, which is true. In support of this incredible distribution of Members across Slovenia, I will now mention the area from which I come. And I don't mind that we come from this area by four Members. Well, the system makes it possible. Last year, for example, there were five Members from this area, and then something changed with the current four. 50,000 people, four MPs. And then we go to the other end of Slovenia, to the White Country – 50,000 people, no Member. Once in history, Bela Krajina had one delegation in one term. Or maybe twice, I won't argue. Is that fair? But it doesn't really change that relationship. Is that fair to the electorate? I don't think so. And it's not the voters' fault if that's the way it happened. In practice, it is not possible, except of course with the insinuation and intimidation of people and mayors, who subsequently send documents to the municipal councils with strong opposition to the abolition of the borders of the electoral districts. Apart from the intimidation and deception of any other tangible data to concentrate Members of Parliament all in Ljubljana with this model, there is not. It's not. It is also simply not possible to make the conversion from these results originating in 2018 into a new system. There is no way to do this calculation. As well as this kind of proof of your claims about what will happen, you have no opponents of the abolition of election thefts. But you are opposed to purely simple electoral mathematics – a well-known environment, what we would change, anyway, for about 30 years now we have been functioning and we know practically for every home number that is elected in the house. And that's the comfort zone we're talking about. It doesn't have to be much. It's just a matter of putting up a candidate. But if you're going to trim the constituencies a little bit, just like this is going to happen now, it's even better, because maybe we're going to fix it where it hasn't worked out so well. In fact, it is also fair to tell people that it is nothing more than insistence on some predictable patterns, rather than putting the tools in the hands of voters. As Comrade Doblekar earlier said, yes, why should voters decide that, because we are the competent ones, we will already know which candidates are the best and we will put them in the constituency. That's not true! This is coercion, in many cases forcing people to vote for a political party, and perhaps it would not have been the candidate who was elected or perhaps not even popular with them. But if they want to vote for this client, they'll choose him. But if we look the other way around, we can look at the reverse of the election and one term back with the enormous result of one of the parties, when on the other hand it was completely irrelevant who was on the list, because people decided to vote that party. That's another case. Therefore, the real arguments against this way of elections to finally put people at the centre of people's decision, except by apprehension of urban domination over rural ones, are virtually no other intelligent argument in this regard. We don't see it, and we haven't heard it today. To talk about the alternative and there has been a number of hearings about the alternative to the majority electoral system, but we have already found that we can be grateful for the past, that we have not legalised this majority system. Just think what would happen in Slovenia if now the largest ruling party was elected by the majority system, if in a situation of proportional electoral system it was able to function with the supremacy of others, as if it had won through the majority system.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Boris Doblekar has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u48	Dear fellow Member from Zagorje, Mr Rudi, you have mentioned me about ten times now in your debate. Apparently, I've upset you a little bit, probably with the facts, and you've got a pretty good look at the debate yourself. You didn't understand me very well, because you were talking about witchcraft. I didn't say anything about witchcraft, but I was saying the fact that this electoral system or your proposal is a rural assassination. That's all I said. That's not witchcraft, that's facts. But you did not say anything about the fact that candidates or Members will eventually no longer come from the periphery, the countryside, as you have defined several times, but will only come from large centres from cities. What this representation is all over the area, as you can imagine, I don't know. It is also true that the Member comes from the constituency, which then represents even the constituency, and that is what we need to know. What will be the possibility of electing a member who will come from a village or a candidate from a Zagreb municipality or from Ljubljana? And then it will slowly go exactly as I said. As far as intimidation is concerned, you scare yourself if it stays the way it is, with alterations to election thefts. You don't have to scare people, people know what it's gonna look like, you don't have to scare them. You were also afraid of the majority electoral system. You said you were afraid. You don't have to be scared. In 2000, this majority electoral system was also possible. Of course, you are rightly afraid if this system were to apply, because then probably one of the political parties with a long tradition would have a majority in Parliament through this system. You're probably trying to say you're afraid of that. But people decide that. I am more afraid of being able to say what you said was that there is an MP in the National Assembly or an MP with 300 votes, but some of them have won a few thousand votes and they have not come. I'm more afraid of that. This is where I'd stop. You don't have to be scared, there's no problem. Once again, I am not for centralisation and I am for even representation throughout Slovenia, not only after major city centres. That's what I said, and I'm stressing it again. So I hope we're getting along now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mag. Dejan Kaloh has the floor, and Mr Andrei Reich is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u50	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Dear colleagues, my friend! Some expositions of opposition members are wonderful in some way, they are verbally rich, but sometimes they may be some kind of materially blind street. However, it seems to me that this debate is useful, for the second time, we are considering this proposal for the abolition of electoral thefts, for the first time in March. Of course, this two-thirds support has diminished. I think that will be the case today, but, as I say, the debate is always welcome. I would begin where the esteemed colleague Medved somehow ended his discussion, as well as when Dr Vatovec spoke about this gerrymandering. Of course, we can't talk about adapting or manipulating the desired election thefts here, but I will tell you on my own case, in the notes, of my constituency. The constituency in which our party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, for the first time has received a Member from this region and this province is also subject to border modification in the proposal of the coalition Members with the participation of the Ministry of Public Administration. And as a Member, who was first elected to the Slovenian Democratic Party in this province, I could only agree with this modification. Why? This modification in this constituency is the constituency of Maribor 3, referring to this geographical roundness also in the context of some municipal integrity, is good because this district is in three municipalities, in two-thirds of the Municipality of Maribor, it takes over even the municipality of Dublek and the town of Pesnica. And, of course, I agreed that that piece of the Poet would go to another constituency or even another constituency under these two criteria. So we Members have no problem with that. I am even saying that every constituency is in some way optional, of course if the client has a good program and on the other hand a good candidate. So I don't have this experience for the parties or my client to appoint Members for this purpose. I'm denying it from my own account, because, as I said, I was first elected in this district for our client. I was also a little disturbed when a colleague said that someone would vote against us being egotistical. I say no, on the contrary, we are, altruists. Altruists in this respect also have a representative of small congregations, such as the Duplek Congregation, in my case. Why wouldn't they have their own representative? And in this temple of democracy. I used to laugh at it because it's such a winged thing that if you're from the bottom of the duplex, sometimes it's said to be demeaning, sometimes even as a folklore, that this duplex is probably also a humorous element because of the duplex Navy. But I'm telling you, it's beautiful people, it's a wonderful town hall, where the quality of life, work and everything else is on some very high level. I don't agree here when sometimes it comes to some kind of joke, specifically about my constituency of the duplex. Even in the opposition ranks, this proposal of yours has come up with certain concerns. I am very glad that my colleague Baković has just joined us. I was on the Committee on Home Affairs at the time, and I absolutely agreed with my distinguished colleague when he said that this proposal further deepens centralisation – I can only sign under his words – and that candidates who come from smaller places and are not so recognisable will not have an opportunity to vote. However, if I return to this basic proposal of yours, it is true to abolish the election thefts and introduce a relative preferential vote, and I do not think that it is good for this very reason, which was mentioned earlier or when I quoted Mr Baković. I think that this proposal, which we will probably have very soon now, because the Deadline for the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision is December 21st, is also in the National Assembly. It is said that this is the right way for this implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. There is no fear here that the modification of election thefts would not even address this decision. As far as your amendments, honourable motions, at the meeting of your working body, the Legal and Legislative Service has actually warned you that this proposal has also been in the field of non-constitutionality, you have in fact interfered too much with this proposal of yours in an active and passive electoral right. Then you and the amendments somehow began to tighten this unconstitutionality, but I still think that watertight still isn't today. The added value for the electorate, as the previously respected candidate has said, I think the reverse is that the abolition of election thefts is an anti-added value for the electorate. Just from the arguments mentioned above, this is the case. I will, of course, vote against this proposal. I believe in the well-intentioned nature of your species, because I actually appreciate you for one element and I believe that you are concerned about the greater role of voters in the electoral process itself. However, I do not think that this proposal of yours provides this. Therefore, once again, I will vote against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mag. Andrej Reich has the floor, and Mrs Matey Udovč is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Today we are discussing a very important topic, namely the amendment of electoral legislation, which will allow the voter's voice to finally be heard and taken into account. We've heard a lot of abuse of facts and misrepresentations here, even threats to centralisation. See, centralisation happened with the formation and fragmentation of Slovenia in the entire 212 municipalities. The criteria for the formation of the congregation at that time were mail, kindergarten, medical station, and commerce. This is the reason not for centralisation, but for the exodus of Slovenians abroad, especially from border areas. When we talk about these matters, many things are being misused in the present. The last example is, for example, the different opening of trade in Slovenian places. There was also a debate in Maribor about whether we are talking about centralisation again, about the first-class Ljubljanans who can go to the store, the Mariborians, who can't buy children underwear. But these measures were not taken by the Ljubljanaians; they were taken by the government of Janez Janša. These are the facts. It seems unacceptable to me that municipal councilors are putting pressure on Members to vote. Here I think that the National Assembly should protect the integrity of Members and make it clear that such actions are unacceptable. I think it would be very good for a SDS client to have such a system, which we propose, in Maribor you also have wonderful and competent candidates, such as Dr. Pivec, Dr. Vlasta Krmelj, Mag. Chancellor, these are all respected Mariborians, peasants, and I don't know why one Mariborian, an SDS elector, could not give confidence, for example, to Dr. Vladi Krljel, who is your respected member. What we are witnessing today, I have already responded in some way, and with our proposal we break the systems of long-standing parties, which actually remind us of some pyramid system of building loyalty, hooking up, whether anyone attended the convention or did certain functions on the ground. If voters can choose who to give, then such a system no longer exists, it collapses. As for electoral successes and results. My friend Doblekar laughed. In the first elections, your party to enter parliament received 3.34%, party SAB 4.38%. When you talk about lists, ballots, you're a client of one person building on a personality cult. And this strong structure, which lasts 30 years, is authoritarian, and nothing happens in your client without your president, who also places candidates on the constituencies. Now, Comrade Grims is not in there, but why does he never run in Gorenje, but always in Kranj 3. It kind of smells like a run-of-the-mill election. In this sense, such elections are not fair, but they are manipulated. This proposal essentially undermines all the machinations we have witnessed so far and also gives the electorate, which is the only right thing, a choice. I strongly reject that such a system means centralisation or preference for candidates originating in the city. No one likes people after where they come from, but what they've created in life and whether they're reputable, whether they're capable of being respected. You also have very distinguished people in your client's territory in Maribor, and I think a lot of people would like to give them a vote, but apparently they can't today because electoral legislation is what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Mateja Udovč, preparing Mrs Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Have a good day, all of you! If ever, today is the time to put our personal interests aside. The voice of the people would have gained great weight with today's proposal for legislation, and I believe that this would also raise electoral participation. However, when I listen to the discussions of colleagues and colleagues, the parties must always be responsible for putting appropriate candidates who are professional and not candidates who are not professionals or candidates who only borrow in nouns, names and surnames. But all candidates must be professional, credible and trustworthy citizens and citizens. Today's consideration of the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Elections in the National Assembly is just the right thing to pour on one side and on the other of pure wine on our work, debate, integration and decision-making. After today's debate, we will be able to understand more clearly how we are seriously connected, cooperate and work for the common good of Slovenia. If the proposal by the law of the opposition Members reaches the required majority, it is likely that there will be no difficulty in imposing new governments. This will also make it easy for us to carry out the task entrusted to us by the Constitutional Court, thus implementing the Constitutional Court decision on the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. In doing so, we must not forget that the proposal for a law on the labour market has already obtained the necessary two-thirds majority for further consideration. We must be aware that this is one of the most important laws governing the functioning of our parliamentary democracy. Therefore, the unification and implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision is a necessity and a reflection of our maturity. It is no longer possible to move the decision, as we have done so so far. Therefore, it is high time to conclude that this matter is closed today. Today we have the opportunity and the opportunity to actually close this matter. When I decided to step actively on the political floor myself, I was convinced that Members were loved by people and that they had to work for people, for their own interests, regardless of which party they belonged to. Of course, within the framework of the political parties' programmes they represent. And today, I'm so much more sure of that. Members must act for the common good at all levels of our social organisation. With work and decisions, we have to stand with our faces, with our names and surnames, not to look for alibis in the parties. Voters must be given the opportunity to have quality contact with Members primarily through personal contacts, media, field work, work in sent offices and other forms of formal or informal association. Voters must feel that in the elections they have chosen the right person to represent, defend, inform and systematically solve their problems, problems. That is why I support the bill we have today on the table because it introduces a priority vote because it is an optional priority vote. In fact, voters have been given an additional opportunity to give a priority vote for each candidate on the list, in addition to the possibility so far that they can surround only the list or the political party. This will give voters the feeling that their voice really believes that their voice really means something. On the other hand, we will all Members be forced to be in closer contact with our electoral base. In this way, the practice of electoral thefts and the installation of client-friendly favorites from other districts will be eliminated. I am convinced that this solution, through the introduction of a priority vote, is democratic, fair to voters and candidates, and that it fully addresses the demands of the Constitutional Court in an elegant manner. Look, I've been in this appeal for the first time. I've never met citizens and citizens on the street who don't even know because they didn't choose me to come near me. This is not only about ordinary citizens, it is also about those in higher positions. They think because they're not my political option, then they can't approach me, so I won't stand up for them. That's not true. They also think that if I am elected in Kranj, because I come from the Kranj constituency alone, they come from another district, that I do not represent them there, that they do not have a Member. All these problems are faced by people on the ground. In Kranjska Gora, Žirovnica, in Jesenice today they do not have a Member, but in Tržič they do not have a Member, and this does not mean that we Goran Members do not go to this local level so that we do not take up their problems. In fact, people do not know who to turn to today because no Member has been elected from their territory. One of the major problems faced by certain parties in drawing up lists of candidates for the election of MPs in the National Assembly is also gender representation, gender balance. Fortunately in our client, the modern centre's parties have never had these problems. This is finally reflected in the composition of our Group of Members. Active and equal participation of women in our social life means only representing the broadest interests of our society. On the other hand, it also brings better quality solutions to individual social problems. The results of numerous studies in this area today have shown how important it is for women to be involved in active social and political life. Of course, it is not enough that we have an active electoral right, now it is time for us to take a step forward or even two in the area of passive electoral law. Why not make sure that the men of the next Assembly are in a minority? This will also highlight our civil progress in equal treatment of both sexes and in the final stage of the development of our society as a whole. I am therefore particularly pleased today that the proposal for a law also brings greater gender balance in the regulation of passive electoral rights or in the election run. The determination of the method of drawing up the candidate papers allows no one to be represented in less than 40% at all. Thus, the list in the first half must be made up of a system of contusions or alternating sex, says the first candidate female, male, female or vice versa, male female, male female. That seems very important to me. It happens that certain parties place women on the outskirts that are ineligible for them. Hence, today, there are significantly fewer women in the National Assembly and in many references. It would probably be possible to discuss the law and this issue, but in the first part only so much. The law itself could be improved, added, but I think it fully meets the requirements of the Constitutional Court's decision and stresses the fairness and democraticity of elections, so I will gladly support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs Violeta Tomić. Prepare yourself as the last in this round, Mr Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Madam President. President Borut Pahor has recently stood before us, who has put it on our hearts that by the new year we need to change and adopt new electoral legislation, because we are in an unconstitutional situation. As we have already heard, two years ago, it was decided by a decision of the Constitutional Court that, after 26 years, the constituencies do not meet any criteria and no criteria. Now obviously some, especially this largest party of the coalition, have no interest in ever having a change of law, because we have not seen your proposal. After the election, we'd hear again how illegal the elections are, how they're stolen and so on. But when we make a proposal, which is very much coordinated and also good, you kind of oppose strange arguments like: we're Mercedes, you're south, it's rural assassination and so on. I must strongly reject and reject such arguments. First of all, I'm worried about your smokin' the countryside up against the city. And we know that Orban also won in a similar way, Trump through some artificially created conflict between villages and cities. You know, all of us who are supposed to be citizens are one generation back from the countryside. Most Slovenes and Slovenians. What's a rural assassination? Not this change in electoral legislation, but that there are no road links to rural areas, that there are no jobs in rural areas, that measures are being taken under the cover of anti-Korona measures that further distance rural areas from capitals, by opening trades, by closing pharmacies, postal offices and so on. Most active and educated people in the countryside were forced to go to work in cities. That wasn't their original choice. This does not mean, however, that in the event of an election, a Member who has moved out of the countryside is not a Member of all the people, of all the Slovenians and, in particular, of the place from which it comes. So this smooching of the anti-rural and rural centre against the centre is very unworthy. The partial interests of Members in order to be elected again should indeed not be a criterion and a guide. I also welcome the Party of the Modern Centre and New Slovenia, that you have seen in this attempt of benevolence and, of course, we are open to any comments, ideas, anything. However, it is worrying to reject, as the biggest party rejects, because this majority system is of course in line with it, because it can be ruled by Slovenia with about 20% and boasts that it has 200,000 voters. What about a million 800 others who are not SDS supporters and their policies? However, I agree that such relative victories of this party are also a product of low electoral participation. The Slovenian basically feels that he is alienated from his politicians, from politics, from decision-making. This electoral abstinence is to blame for having 200 000 voters, who somehow take the course of all of Slovenia elsewhere. I wonder how many far right governments, how many deletions we will have to experience, how important it will be for citizens and citizens to understand how important it is to preserve the electoral right that was once fought, and if anyone took it away from us, they would jump into the air, but if they do, it's a shortcut. So then before the elections we have different graffiti, the elections are a farce, if they change anything, they would be illegal, even absurdly some party of negligents appeared online and so on. Of course, this is all water on the mill to those who have a fixed number of their constituents, whom we leave behind, in what way they keep, we know that it is mainly one-man's client and then they're being sued by interested groups that are exhausting Slovenia and are not doing it well. In Levica, we agree that electoral legislation needs to be harmonised so that, as we have in the European elections, we can also have these. If we could think more broadly and we could talk about some consensus, it would be wise, and this is my entirely personal opinion, to make mandatory elections. Then we'd see what the real situation is in the country. Mandatory elections have many democratic states and it would be wise to think about it. It would also be wise to think about electronic voting, not only in elections, but also in cases where a Member is unable to attend a fair because of the disease and sometimes one vote for very important laws is lacking so that a Member who is sick or, as mentioned earlier, a Member who is in maternity may still participate at least in the decision-making process. There are many things that would be good and that would necessarily need to be changed in this young democracy of ours. It would also be very necessary, because it is sometimes said that the policy of mollusc is a man's thing, but a woman in politics is essential, because they are topics that we see differently. So the clamp is important. However, I am also pleased that the Member is before me from LMŠ, whom some of the SDS call a private list, which I find very underestimating and shameful, we also have the Alliance of Alenka Bratusek, and so on, these are not private lists, you can call yourself 100 times democratic, and you do not act democraticly and your name does not help, so I am pleased that the Member has mentioned before me also regions that have never received a Member. Never. Or, say, once, as it happened in the white landscape that I come from. The white landscape has 50,000 voters, but the pool of elections feeds Zagorje, Trbovlje, Hrastnik, which are larger. And it is unfair that no matter what election participation is, then of course, it is no wonder that people do not want to go to elections, because they know, even if everyone goes to elections, that their representative will not be elected. That is why it is important to support the possibility of changes to the preferred vote, because the margins have proved unfair, unstimulating to the electorate. But when we give a preferential voice and give our voice to a person we trust, the matter is completely different. A relative preferential voice allows us not to strengthen one sense in the client system that individuals play where they are put, and an optional preferential voice is the only one that allows us to decide whether to give priority to the electoral programme and to the political option as such. The programmes are those that voters should consider and know better. There is a new proposal ahead of you and we want to get support, because otherwise we are in an anti-constitutional situation. We can have elections today, tomorrow, and then what if we don't have any changes to the electoral system. I am afraid that this non-amendment is actually in the interest of one party, who will then scream out loud, that the elections are stolen and that they are not constitutional and I do not know what. We want to make the voters have confidence in us and that we have an electoral system, as required by the Constitutional Court's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u57	Thank you very much. As the last in this round, Mr Bojan Podkoršek gets the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u58	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a topic that has been burdening us all together in this National Assembly for the past year, this is electoral law, and the Constitutional Court is knocking on the door of the National Assembly. I will not allow myself to comment on who is bigger, who is smaller, which is larger, which is smaller, which is stronger, who is less powerful, who is in any party suitable to sit in this national assembly, but I will focus more on this proposal, and especially on my constituency. I must admit that I am not burdened by whether I will run for office at the next state elections, in the early or regular years of 2022. I'm not burdened with that. Of course I would like to have my constituency, these are Slovenian Horsemen, Vitanje and Zreča, a Member. While I was not yet in the National Assembly, a few months ago, when LDS was still alive, an LDS candidate was also elected in my constituency. Although I did not agree with the LDS policy at the time, the candidate elected in my constituency certainly worked for our constituency, that is for all three congregations. There's no doubt about that. My colleague Bandelli said earlier in his debate that those who will vote against us today are egotistical. I have to say that I cannot agree with this and that I am far from being selfish. Nor does any party in this National Assembly in this term when we discuss this electoral law have a constitutional majority or a large majority to prevent this constitutional majority. So it is not only one party that depends, as has been said several times today, but it depends on several parties. Slovenia is one of the smaller countries. We have heard many times, and we are also talking and comparing ourselves with some neighbouring countries. Of course, I agree with this to some limit, but because of the specificity of the country, it is often harder to compare with neighbouring countries, especially this electoral system from a neighbouring country to transfer or import and integrate into the Republic of Slovenia. We have heard from the proposaler today that politics is not a game, it is a serious business. I cannot agree with this as a Member in the second term. I'll explain why. As I said at the outset, I will not allow myself to comment or determine which party is right to be in the National Assembly, which is wrong, nor will I comment on which candidates are right for any of the parties. I am repeatedly disturbed by this sentence: politics is not a game, it is a serious business. I remember in 2012, when the mayor of that time, and also the current mayor, Zoran Jankovic, decided to go to a little state policy, gather his thinkers and go to the state-run elections. Of course, he was elected, made up a government, and it was nothing. Of course this game didn't work. This serious business didn't work out. Then, of course, those who went to the elections with the then and present mayor went to look for other parties and the other door. That bothers me. We also have some who, at the time of the mandate, go from one to the other, third, we have some who switch parties. I will never allow myself to be elected through my client, but I will continue and end up in any other party. In 30 years of history, I do not think that it has happened in the National Assembly that anyone from any party who has been elected would disagree with the party's policy or with the State's policy in the National Assembly to resign and terminate its mandate. That's not what's happened. But they're always looking for some strangeness just for one reason that someone is through the entire mandate of the National Assembly. So with the phrase, “policy is not a game, it is a serious business”, I certainly cannot agree. When we talk about laws that need a constitutional majority, I am very close to the Belgian Parliament, which adopts laws that then enter into force in 5 years or 10 years. I think that electoral legislation is one such case, but unfortunately we are in this national assembly, as well as our predecessors, we missed it because we are in time trouble. To return to my constituency. I will certainly reject this proposal and I will vote against it because I want my constituency to have, regardless of who will run for the place I am today, a Member who will take care of and vote in the National Assembly. In the National Assembly we adopt laws that touch everyone, regardless of which part of Slovenia someone is home from. These are 85%. There are also things that Ljubljana has very difficult to understand, such as problems in Koroška, in Trbovje, in Prekmurje, and elsewhere. I think that this is a great advantage for the development of this rural area when we have the opportunity for the parties to have candidates, who also come from rural areas. In this debate today, it has been repeatedly said that our party is a party to one person. That's not true. I've been on the party myself for 26 years. The party has 30,000 members. I can assure you that none of the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, who we are today in this national assembly, knows if he will run for the next election because there are several steps. If I'm talking about myself, it has to register me in my constituency, that's in Slovenian Konjice, the municipal committee in Vitanj and Zreča, on the party on the executive committee, and elsewhere in the party's world. Five, six, I need a step to get to my candidacy. Of course, then my constituents will decide. Let me just say I'm going to vote against this law myself. However, I am in favour of putting an end to this time pressure as soon as possible and to find a compromise when the law by the Government or the Ministry comes on this national constituency, we find a common compromise for the welfare of Slovenia's development. It is a fact, however, that we are coming from Members of Parliament and Members from larger cities, from small towns, even from villages, it is very difficult to find one common language. It is not right, however, to look for a culprit in the National Assembly who is responsible for having such an electoral system. Slovenia is 30 years old to have such a system, once Members and Members voted for it. It's not about one person, it wasn't about one party, it was about those who were our predecessors. Of course, we also have Members who were present at the time. I'm proud of them, but it wasn't up to one. I will vote against this proposal for the well-being of my constituency. This is the constituency of the Slovenian cavalry, Vitanje and Zreče. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I'm asking if there's anyone else to discuss it. I can see that. That's why I'm opening the list. Just a minute. We also have a remote access report, but we'll start the list first. Mr. Jelinčič, if you don't mind, we'll continue to activate the list if you'll excuse me. Sign up for everyone you want to discuss. We've got seven interviewees reported. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert also applied. I suggest we give her a word first, given that she's on remote access. Here you go, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u60	I'll talk to you later.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u61	I'll talk to you later. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I think I'm the first to advertise so far. I hope we hear from each other and that the connection is flawless. Today we are talking about a really important matter. We decide what the Constitutional Court requires of us and we also decide how voters and voters will decide in future elections. First of all, I have to say this to my colleague, Violeto Tomić, that it does not seem right for me to call any party in the National Assembly as undemocratic. The Slovenian Democratic Party is certainly a democratic party with one of the longest traditions in the National Assembly. Our authorities always decide in accordance with the statutes and rules. That's what our congresses do. Compared to them, we have never had any problems or even gone so far as to have physical attacks. We act very democratically and stand not only for our party, but also for all the voters and voters who have also awarded this party the highest number of votes in the last state elections. And we were the winners of the election, whether it suits someone or not. That's how the people decided. Speaking of electoral systems, we have one possible solution on the table today. There are many possible solutions. We must also recall in some way the time when the Slovenian Democratic Party, with the help of 40,000 signatures of the electorate and the electorate, gathered enough signatures to change the electoral system into a majority electoral system, and you know that this has then been done in some way by changing the constitution. Of course, we did not participate in this change, so that such an electoral system as we have today is probably the most difficult to attribute to the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, we do have such a system, and today we have the task of somehow reaching a system that will ensure the shortcomings identified by the Constitutional Court. This does not mean that the solution is only in this proposal. The change in election thefts is also an opportunity to come up with such a solution. What is most important is that we follow the path that allows us to change the electoral system or arrange things by drinking water and satisfying the decision of the Constitutional Court. I certainly believe that we have different opinions in the National Assembly, which is perfectly right, but I am certainly closer to changing the electoral landscapes in a way that corrects those constituencies that deviate from the current requirement of the Constitutional Court. People had a choice. We can also talk about why electoral participation is so low. It is also often the fault of the opinion 'ah, because nothing can be changed, everything remains the same'. And it is us politicians who, in some common cooperation and in the search for common solutions, should show that politics can and that we know how to come together when it is the most difficult for the country. In this connection, there was also talk about quotas called sex quotas. I do not see any difference between one and the other systems in order to disregard this quota. There are quotas and today we also see that there are several representatives of the women's sex who are still in the minority, but there are more and more representatives of the women's sex in the National Assembly. However, I must always point out something about these quotas, even though I am a woman, that the most important thing is to elect Members or Members who are able to represent the interests of the electorate from where they come from, not only because of gender. It seems to me that it would be inappropriate to judge people by sex who are capable and who is less capable. It also seems to me that in the context of talking about different electoral systems or how to solve this mess, we should talk about the voters themselves, not least. We in Slovenia still have very different approaches to voters. Some people have this very far away, some voters have even quit. I think it's also our job to allow voters to get to the polls in the shortest and easiest way possible. I am pleased that we have taken a step forward, as far as those voters who are disabled and have so far had difficulties in accessing voters. But here we have to look at our entire population in the country, and we have older people who, for example, cannot get to the faraway voters. In some ways, we should also allow them to have access to them. As we say, we have different views here. But the fact is, when you're talking today, some people are talking about the fact that the districts are without voters. Nor does this system under one list mean that some voters from certain parts of their representative's electoral unit would therefore have, because it depends on the composition of the list, where these candidates and then the preferences that will then come from. [[Incomprehensible]] [[Incomprehensible]] However, I certainly do not want the electoral system to do anything that would divide citizens again into two parts, those coming from the city centres, the city councils, the larger municipalities, and those coming from the countryside. It is absolutely true that we must not create a system that prefers one group of voters to another. I'm afraid the solution that's on the table today is exactly what it is. In this way, we can come to the conclusion that the countryside will no longer have its representatives as it is now, which of course would certainly not be a good solution. As we say, we certainly have different opinions on this, but in the end, it is important that we get a sufficient majority, and that is what we will follow. So one option is that which is on the table today, the other option is to change the election circuits, and it is absolutely important that voters first and foremost get the opportunity to go to the elections. There's something else. I believe that some also want this proposal, which is on the table today, also because they had problems in their own customers. That would be inappropriate. That is how we have today in the National Assembly a party whose voters did not have enough votes to elect even their party presidents. This is not a problem of the electoral system, and this is a problem for every party. Each party must imagine if their party president, who is somehow the main one representing their programme and representing the party, does not receive a self-sufficient number of votes to come to the National Assembly. This is not a problem in the electoral system, it is a problem for every party, but we cannot therefore go some way to allow some who are obviously not trusted enough by voters to come to the National Assembly in this way. Thank you so much for your words, and I want a lot of health for everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Anya Bah Gibert. We want the same for you. Mr Reich has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u64	First of all, I would like to wish my fellow Member as soon as possible. Yet I would like to point out that if she is so brave and so capable, then she has nothing to fear and let her open [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u65	Mr. Reich [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u66	Time limits and requirements [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u67	Mr. Reich [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u68	I guess I wouldn't have. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u69	Mr. Reich! This is not a procedural proposal and you have now reacted very rudely and have taken advantage of this option given to you by the Rules of Procedure. It wasn't right or nice of you. They'd deserve a reminder. We continue the debate. Mr Reich, however, you have my last warning before I start giving you warnings because you have abused the procedural proposal twice in the course of my session today. Mr. Jelinčič, you have the floor to prepare Mrs. Jerca Korča. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u70	Thank you very much. From the beginning, I said that we would absolutely support this marriage. We are confident that this is the optimisation of our electoral wishes. Even if we look on the side of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I don't understand why they're against it. This option to delete the constituencies and to write a client list within the constituencies is a major approximation of the majority system. I don't understand why the party is now against this, because this is one step against their wishes, which they then presented at that referendum, where there were not enough people for different reasons, but also because the State Council was looking at something and no one really knew who was drinking and who was paying. In this way, if we remove the constituencies, we will give the best representatives of each party the opportunity to come to the National Assembly. The fact is that each political party will put its best members, those who know, those who have exhibited themselves, and those who are willing to act for the benefit of the state. The fact is, we are not representatives of local communities here. We are not representatives of individual thefts, as one speaker said before me, when he said he was a candidate and would work for his district. We work here for the state. It is the country that has given us the mandate to work for it, so that all citizens will be better and better, not only the certain province from which the Member is appointed. When this colleague said "my constituents," yes, that's what's wrong. There must be voters who vote for the best candidate who vote for the one who will take care of the country's health system, for the state's defence system, to ensure that we live safely and peacefully within the country, but not to evacuate to its territory, which is beyond its borders, but who no longer cares. I think that's very bad. In Slovenia we have 212 municipalities, which led to Mr. Podobnik and the Slovenian People's Party with those stupid desires that each Farah have its own municipality. And now we see where we are. A huge number of congregations are essentially breathing on starches, and when there was a temporary ban on moving from one congregation to another, a person could not visit one mile [1 km] of distant neighbor or friend because he was already in another congregation. That's what crushing means. Fragmentation destroys the country. Just as the country is destroying this proposal, which came from the Council of State to have 12 provinces. What calf did that come up with? 12 provinces and two major cities – Ljubljana and Maribor. This reminds me or I am sure that this is a deliberate demolition of the country based on the division from World War II, that the upper part of the Sava above would be judged by the capital of Maribor under the German Reich and the lower part under Italy. Only a dozen more are to be drawn along, and the Ljubljana province with the capital of Ljubljana under Italy. This is the destruction of the country. That is why I think it is necessary to combine these matters, to be aware that we live in the same country and that we cannot fight each other. Already there are major divisions, for example, in the Styrian people say that they prefer to make a border in the Trojans, where there was once a country border or state border between the State of Styria and the State of Kranjsko. It should be borne in mind that the countries in the time of Austro-Hungarian, Slovenian four, had the status of countries. Not even those masters who share Slovenia are aware of this today. We have 88 robberies. If the matter were reduced, we would have 8 constituencies and within each constituency the electors can figure out who the candidates they represent and can verify what these candidates did in the previous term, or what these new candidates promise them to do for them too – but not just for them. The country is developing. If we look at it, the current government is doing a great job in the area of infrastructure. The roads are being repaired all over Slovenia, even where no one has ever smelled them before. And that's where we have to continue. We must continue in this direction in order to ensure the even development of the whole country. Declarations that some famous athletes and famous actors will come in, and I don't know what they're all about, they're being declassified. We had some famous athletes here. What good was it for them? None. We also had or have some players in here. What good does it do them? None. Throwing pollen under the feet of the state's development. That's not what I'm for. I think even voters would have overlooked and knew that such things did not come and bring development to their own country. However, I would also like to go a little further to the area of so-called women's quotas or sex quotas. Sex quotas are total nonsense. I think and in the Slovenian National Party we think that quality is important, not gender. But if it is sex, if you so strongly advocate that it is an important sex, then why do you leave more than 80% of women in the judicial system for judges and there are no judges? And no one's getting hurt? And other professions are like that. In short, quality is essential. It should be noted that two administrative courts in Germany, in two German countries with the same status as the State within the Federal Republic of Germany, namely Tübingen and Brandenburg, have established that women's quotas are anti-constitutional. Now, here's an example of how we get women to go into politics. Mostly women don't want enough to go into politics. And now we have to fly from Pontius to Pilate to convince some woman to enter politics. Then there's some grunting up, down, no one knows who's gonna get in. And then whether he comes or doesn't come, he doesn't come well, he only comes because he's a woman. It doesn't drink water. The matter is even more funny, because in Slovenia it is now allowed that, according to some Slovenian lawyers, according to gender equality, I am absolutely for equality, but I cannot, because if I put my pants down and look between my legs, I see exactly what I have, and the woman knows exactly what she has. That means we can't go to gender equality. There is now a leap from one sex to another in Slovenia. Take the example of 11 men running on a particular client's list. The State Election Commission will reject this because women's quotas have not been respected. Then, for example, six of these men go to the administrative unit and say, "You know what, from now on, I feel like a woman." And he's asking for a new ID that says, what do I know, France Francetovich is no longer Francetovich, but he's Francka Francetovich. And what will the State Election Commission do? He absolutely has to confirm the list. When we had the Women’s List in the elections, the Women’s List — just the name that says what it is — was rejected by the State Election Commission because there was no man in it. Now it will be possible under the new law. But here we are before one more problem. What about those who say they're not women or men? We have a whole series of these options, I think there's about 10. Some declare themselves, because I don't know what else to do anymore, and I don't know what to do with Q and I don't know what else to do with Y. What if one, given that this is permitted, declares himself a Martian? And then he'll say, "We Martians don't have a representative in the National Assembly, we demand a Martian quota in elections." Where did we come from? Total decadence. And this decadence is supported by the European Union and Slovenia. Unfortunately. I hope that one day we'll shave, sober up, and we'll stop all this nonsense. That is why it is necessary to skip the possibility of such nonsense and simply delete the constituencies, those 88, we have 8 constituencies, each party putting the best people to the top. But if someone is so good as to jump the one in the first place with a preferential voice, he has already proved that he is excellent. And when some say no one from the periphery will come in, that's not true. If we go to see how many members of the periphery there are from Ljubljana or Maribor, we will see that this thesis is in no way true. I think that those Members who have shown themselves in the National Assembly as good, constructive and acting for the benefit of the State are not afraid of not being elected. He's not afraid. But if they have someone so good in their constituency in their constituency that he's better than them, it won't hurt them either. In fact, we all work together for the country, not everyone works for our local community, and then we fight for someone to make a highway from the inn to their weekend or to their drinking house, or from their home to their church. Or that someone does what we know about Ormož, where some of the chapels did nothing else. That's not enough. That's not it. Or, after all, from the Slovenian Horsemen, where certain developments are hampered by the wrong political direction of certain Members. That can't be either. Members of Parliament are representatives of all the people. At least that's what the Constitution says. And if we are representatives of all people, we must respect that and we must work for all citizens. That means we have to work for the whole country. There's no way we can go to one plot that I'm going to work for my county, but what's outside my district, I don't care. That's not working. Perhaps it would be more reasonable to think that those Members who skip or skip from one of the parliamentary groups to another group would lose their mandate. After all, if a party has been elected on a party's list, it means that it has agreed with that party's statute, that it has agreed with the parties' origins and plans and with that party's programme. If he jumped into one of the other parties, then he gave away everything he signed when he entered the party, when he entered the election position, and then he gave out the voters who gave him the vote. The Devil has few MPs in the National Assembly who have been admitted to the National Assembly on their own behalf. I think we should make a difference here. Of course, that infamous 7th article, which is why, in fact, if a disgruntled lawyer remembers from where else to start messing with the state of Slovenia, he can say that all the elections since 1992 have been illegal and illegal, since no one was born on election day to be 18 years old. Nobody. There may be three in Europe throughout a period of more modern European history. Maybe if. And that's what I don't think. These things are what they are. Let's sit down, take the system into our hands, say what needs to be changed. I hope this goes through today. I hope so. But I'm afraid not, because there's always one group of Members here of certain political parties who speak one language and work the other. And even though they promise something, it's not like they're gonna keep it, and that's what I'm afraid of. This also reminds me of Mr Pahor, who has so long debated on this electoral system that the matter has collapsed and that there have been 60 votes left to confirm this system, while we have already had them. It's a broader goathouse, and I'm afraid the repair of this goathouse won't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Jerca Korče, Ms Mojca Škrynjar is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u72	Thank you, Vice President. Well, hello, all of you. It saddens me that there are no Ministry representatives present in the Chamber, despite the fact that we are discussing a very important topic, although perhaps when someone is following us right now, they are thinking about what they are currently discussing about the electoral system. For we are discussing because the Government has not drawn up a proposal at all times, although it has had time for all other matters, and we are running out of time to implement the Constitutional Court's decision, on the one hand, and on the other hand these same representatives of the Ministry are not even capable of having a dialogue on electoral law with the opposition. Not because it's their duty, but because in a subject like electoral law, it's the least that we can say is hygienic. Today's non-support for this proposal to replace a relative priority vote is only a reflection of how virtually some individual politicians or the whole of the parties perceive their role in two principles. One is the principle of representation of purely partial interests and the other is the principle of self-centredness and self-interest. Why do I think so? Because today I have not heard a sincere argument that would prevent individual Members from supporting this proposal. And this argument is completely simple, and it is sad that you are not able to speak it honestly and also publicly. And that's to look at your chair. Not to the country, not to our future, but simply to see if you can sit in the National Assembly in the next term. We're talking about this famous creation of our thefts and more. I think that in electoral legislation we could overcome this kind of partial egocentricism and maybe look at the country. Today we have the opportunity to change the electoral system and take a pretty big step forward in enforcing that the electorate will actually have a choice. Today, when the voter comes to vote, he doesn't have that choice. Practical choice only between the parties and the so-called forced candidate by the party. I don't understand what you're afraid of. So that the voter gets a list of the proposed candidates from one party and decides on the name and surname? How important it is, of course, the party has a programme, has values, has principles that it represents. On this basis, he is seeking to enter parliament. But on the other hand, if ever, today we see that the names and surnames of individuals representing this party are also important. Last but not least, we are in a situation where a party may have come from its programming origins, the fundamental values and principles it represented, which is why it entered the National Assembly. We can see, however, that the names and surnames of individuals who have been chosen from this party may be those who maintain their integrity and that for which they have been elected and who have not been removed and turned in a different direction. That's why names and surnames are important. Not to say another step forward, how important it is, who sits in the National Assembly also to assess how active the electorate is, how active he has done in his mandate or has not done so in his mandate. Because we Members are also different in how much we invest and how we take our mission seriously. Instead of looking for clear arguments, I would like you to be honest about what this is all about. It is a concern of maintaining its own chair and of the assurance that the existing borders, or even the proposal that you will bring, have not yet seen what it is like, with some modifications, as one of the SDS Members has expressed itself, and this has even added that these are the modifications that he has been pleased with and agreed with. That's a key argument. So the modifications that will correspond to a particular customer. He even added that you're altruists, because you're also going to allow some of the smaller edges. Yeah, but it's a particular condition that also altruism is obviously the highest degree of egoism. In that case, that's how it works. But now I am going to take this clear argument, the assassination of the periphery and centralisation, that certain boundaries will be left without a Member or that some local level will not have Members. You know, this is where you missed the basic understanding of the system of our Republic of Slovenia. We have local self-government communities to realize local interests. There's the mayor's office, the councilman's office. Then we also have the National Council, which is called the local authorities. And in these two ways, local self-government is being realized, or that the local part has its own influence. On the other hand, we are Members and National Assembly representatives of the whole people, the whole country. Believe me, even in the government of Marjana Charc, I never wanted to represent any narrow interest, but this is the construction of a sidewalk, a circular, and lobbying for something to be done in my district because of my partial interest, my desire for re-election. Because if anything, a Member should think about developing a country, about systems, how to improve health care, how to set up a network of health services throughout the country, whether from Maribor or Selc. It doesn't matter because every citizen deserves an equal and equal quality service. That is why we are Members to understand that we are Members of our entire “chicken” and that is how we act. And here's the dot. If we felt that way, Members would put much more thought into it and their efforts to ensure that the country as a whole prospers further than to deal specifically with lobbying for some narrow partial interest or district, so that you can then boast before the elections about how you might have arranged a circular. I'm not saying that this circle you've arranged doesn't matter. But it is important that we view the country as a whole. There's supposed to be some kind of mental leap. And in this way, we are implementing a number of things. The first thing is that we give the electorate a choice so that he can choose between several candidates, with the name and surname that is most suitable to represent him at the national level and at his or her merits, or is suitable for carrying out the mission. On the other hand, I am giving you a case, my fellow SDS, because the district of Logatec has had quite a few years of MPs who did not come from Logatco. I've been living since I was born in Logatco, and my colleague Shircelj hasn't made any major moves for our district, and it doesn't matter if we have a Member from there or not. You've run for office in that district for calculus and the possibility of emancipation. The first step will be by the party who, on the basis of a programme and of all the principles and values it has, will determine the list, and then the voter will decide whether or not to give his vote to Jerzi Korca or to anyone else in this list. I would just like to say that when you make clear arguments that you can't even defend, you use the element of honesty and say that it is a very narrow interest of individuals after maintaining the existing system or any minimum modifications and adjustments to existing thefts, in order to preserve the status quo and to preserve some of the kindergartens that individuals have made. However, if a person or all of us sitting in here look at it from a different perspective, we can realize that we have a historical opportunity, if you want, to make this system truly radical and bring it closer to the electorate, that it will eventually become more understandable. Because, according to the current system of many people, it probably doesn't make sense how someone with 300 votes can be elected, someone with three, four thousand votes can't. But with your modification of the thefts, this thing won't change either. So I sincerely hope that someone can look at this perspective – and I doubt it — that this proposal will receive support. But until the vote, there is still time and whoever wants can do something good not for themselves, but for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Mojca Škrynjar, Mr Jožef Horvat is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u74	Thank you. There are always failures in those experiments that are against nature and against some tradition, values. The changes shall be implemented slowly and gradually. Guys, we're not the same. If you look through novelism, you'll see social differences between nations, between social groups. For example, when an English child is 14 years old, there is no specialty in going to further boarding school, even if the boarding school is not very far from home. If we were to send a child 20 miles [20 km] away to high school and boarding school, we'd probably say it's almost genocide. You won't find this case. Because we're different from the English. And that doesn't mean the English are bad and we're good and vice versa, but we just have different habits. Even within one country, you have areas where you have your customs, where your traditions and values are. Each district is so a social subsystem, it has its own rhythm of life, it is larger than the fourth community, it can also include different congregations, but it is still a complete one. And those who represent our own province must be aware of that. We must be aware of the needs, habits, values, people who have chosen us, we must be aware of expectations. Of course, we must look at the welfare of all voters, all citizens and citizens in Slovenia. But in the first place, we have to take special care of the electorate of our own district, because we owe them the most. They elected us, they expect the most of us. However, these values cannot go beyond some general social values, nor can they go beyond that, but this must be taken into account. We deal with people, with individuals, with their problems, their desires, their ambitions, their hopes. And as long as we view people as individuals with our habits, desires, and hopes, we are genuine. Once we get to the system level, we're not like that anymore. I think that the distribution to the outskirts is nevertheless the most democratic and most human and most in the nature of the Slovenes and Slovenes. Other countries have other systems. But many times, when another system was trying to transfer between our people, it turned out that it didn't work. I am in favour of correcting the margins within the meaning of the Constitutional Court's decision, but to remain within the framework in which we are accustomed to Slovenia and Slovenia. The same coats were once in the Communist Chinese system. We are different today, we are different, but we are the only ones in the need for mutual respect and respect for differences and values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word has Joseph Horvat, to prepare Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, this is an extremely important topic for our country, for the future of our country. I would have expected that, at least as far as applicants are concerned, participation would be 100%. Unfortunately, there are only a few of us here in the hall. I'm not gonna go into the details in front of the public, and I'm hoping to say dirty laundry, and I'm gonna go over the details of how this law was passed. But we don't mind, so let's eat this. Because if the applicants really intended to succeed in this project, they would actually go to all the parties. And now it's just a bit of a ruse, a beat-up, and so on. Let's just leave it. But we are not a party to the day-to-day, we have long since adopted our position on the abolition of electoral thefts because we are a democratic party, and this is, of course, an obligation for Members to respect the decisions of the party's organs. In a way, it is quite interesting that Nova Slovenija, as the successor to Slovenian Christian Democrats, was created by electoral systems. Why? Because there was once a merger of SLS plus SKD in 2000, Members voted in favour of a constitutional law that allowed a proportional electoral system, which was not the will of the people. It is said that the Members then overstepped the will of the people. And that's a mistake. That's a mistake. At that time, the late Dr. Andrej Bajuk decided to establish New Slovenia — Christian Democrats — on August 4, 2000. I mean, I know you don't care how important the electoral system is in this country. The Constitutional Court has decided. Even if we don't like the Constitutional Court's decision, there's no debate about it. The decision of the Constitutional Court should be respected. We got off to a good start. We have begun a good consultation with the President of the Republic. I agree with those who say we've been squirming for too long. Look, serious people, when they sit down, get together at two, not more than three meetings. Pika. And we're going to reality. We've been playing for too long. You know what happened then was the collapse of the government and so on. But let's leave history behind. Now we're where we are. Don't forget about the amendment proposed by the SAB, the SD and the Left. We don't support him. We will vote against it. New Slovenia will vote against this amendment. Look, there is so much nonsense here, because not only here, but in many laws we have so much nonsense and I hope that we all agree in at least one statement that we have regulated this life too much in this loving country and country. We've adjusted too much. We've programmed too many people instead of giving them freedom, freedom of choice. Free and responsible decision-making. These things really don't make much sense. I am glad that some are not actually co-signers here. So there is no such support from New Slovenia. But there is something I would like to say that actually has something to do with this law. We have so far had a very complicated system of election of our two colleagues or two Members, the Hungarian Hungarian National Community and the Italian National Community. Today I must tell you that I regret that we are not our colleague, my friend Ferenca Horvath. I didn't call him, I didn't ask him why, but I read today's interview with him in the newspaper Homeland. And that's what I've been trying to say for months now, when it's on the far left side, and it's not just one party, so many attacks on the neighbouring country, even yesterday, for example, the future mandate-holder hit Hungary first in his first sentence, or he saw an orb. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues! How do the Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, and Hungarians feel when they listen to this daily? You're driving them out of Slovenia. Yeah, I'll tell you that directly. It hurts, you know. That hurts. Have you ever thought about our colleague Ferenc? Maybe that's why he's not here today. We're not in the same political party. But I live there, I live there, and I meet people. I don't know if you're aware or not or if you're going irrationally over it. People tell me that at a time when the KUL coalition is calling for a vote to change power, when the Slovenian government is seeing an orbanisation and when there is a lot of tension between Hungary and other countries in both domestic and European conditions, that hurts people. What do they care about and care about high politics?? We can live in Prekmurje in co-existence. Here I would kindly ask a tiny little t-shirt for more than one humanity and consideration that any word can also cut, can also hurt. We have taken a decision on the parties' bodies to support this model, and we will support it today. But I'm saying there won't be any more brutal beatings, that there's only six of us here today because the colleague has a medical checkup. And health is the first. I told him to go to medical because health is the first. Whatever it is, the six of us here today will support this marriage. We have done many models, mathematical calculations and so on and we are not afraid of such a change. I was first elected in 2004, then three more times. I hope that I will no longer have to go to the elections, even though it shows that we will have an extraordinary election before the regulars again, but this is not a topic today, and I hope that it will not. But one thing, my colleague taught me how to avoid articulating local interests here. Yeah, for God's sake, where are you guys? Of course, it's not like there's an MP standing up for some sidewalk. He has to stand up for every sidewalk in this country, if that's what you want, if you're talking about sidewalks. Above all, it must advocate coherent regional development. Unfortunately, the far north-east is still light years away from Ljubljana. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. And one more thing. However, the impact of the individual composition of Parliament on the individual constituency will be very difficult to determine. It is simply not possible to decide because we have one schizophrenia between statistical regions and between electoral units. This is total schizophrenicism, and I hope once we get the provinces in this country, that we'll also redefine electoral units somehow. For example, you will better understand that the statistical region of Pomurje, which is 27 municipalities, has seven Members in a previous term, six plus one, one representative of the Hungarian Hungarian National Community, now only three plus one, together four. Then another very important question is how many are in the coalition and how many are in the opposition. These are questions that this law does not solve and cannot solve. There is something else that is also an open question at this very time. We also need to agree once in this country whether the country can be led by people who have been denied legitimacy by voters and voters, citizens and citizens, or who can come from a road that has 5 minutes of time and lead this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs. Natasha Sukich has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I've got two things to answer. I have a replica, my respectable colleague, if you'll listen to me about what you've been saying about Prekmurcs and Orbanization and Hungarians, the Hungarian minority. I was on Murski Sobota yesterday. I talked to Prekmurs, my relatives, and everyone's afraid of the Orbanization. The Hungarian minority or members of the Hungarian minority are not Orban. Orbanisation means autocratic authoritarian policy and we do not want to transfer this model to Slovenia. It's an orbanization. So I don't know why members of the Hungarian minority would be offended. Probably a lot of them don't like it either, what's going on in Hungary. And the other thing is when my colleague Horvath was talking about the nonsense of the amendments. I don't know if it makes any sense if we're also applying this clamp on a vertical line to change the top of the list, in which case the man and the woman. I don't understand what would make sense here. Up to half of the list down is stuck and it is also horizontal to apply this principle in our proposal, which is the only right thing. If you put the bearers themselves at the beginning of the leaves, you're kind of favoring them. Because if people don't make decisions with a preferential vote in this case, but they only support the list as a client, you're only going to favor one sex again. I think our proposal is extremely in place, not at all meaningless, so I do not understand the implementation of this Member, who has apparently left in his arrogance. He doesn't even have enough respect for me to listen to what I wanted to say to him, that maybe he'd explain it to me at some point, if I might have misunderstood him. At the same time, he was appalled at how many Members of Parliament were not sitting here at this time, but he pushed himself out, while I just wanted to show him that he might not be quite in the right place for what he said or for a dialogue between us. A democratic dialogue, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u79	Thank you very much. He has the word Masha Kociper, to prepare Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Vice President. This debate today has clearly gone into different dimensions, from having too many municipalities to what a particular electoral system means. But the fact is, and this is an indisputable fact that in our Parliament for a long time, in fact, we have been discussing whether the current electoral system is appropriate or not since the emergence of the new state. As is often said by a constitutional theory, there is no ideal electoral system. Everyone's got certain pluses and everybody's got certain weaknesses. As far as what some Members have mentioned is concerned, we should have a majority system. With the words of my predecessor – God forbid! Slovenia, a small country, with so many different views of people, with such different views on politics, I think that the system that best captures the wishes and preferences of voters is the system that we have, proportionate. The proportional system is also a system that is mostly used in democratic countries of a type such as Slovenia, in smaller democratic countries, which is regionally diverse. Imagine that we too would have a majority system in such a small country, where, depending on whether we had one half — the left and the right — one or two more Members, and this half would then take full control and lead the country completely for the next four years. I think that for our country this system is quite appropriate and does not increase the division to the left and right, which is already so very much present that the majority system would only encourage it. Within this proportional system, we have these constituencies, and I agree with all those who have spoken of the fact that the electoral system with these margins is quite predictable for the parties with a longer democratic tradition and therefore positive. Therefore, the SDS party is not considering any other system, is not interested in the decisions of the Constitutional Court, is not interested in whether this provision on the key impact of the electorate, the decisive impact of the electorate on the choice of a Member is realized. They have this system studied. They must be acknowledged that they have been in Parliament for a long time, started with four Members, and didn't have 4% for the first time, now they have 25. At that time, they studied this system of electoral thefts until perfection, where, as he knows a little brutally, he said, "Victory Jelinčič, it is important that you adore those 300 voters in your district, buy them sausage or two," said Victory, earning a circle, said Jerca, and your term was elected. You are keenly excited about the provisions of our Constitution, which stipulates that a Member is a Member for all citizens, including those who have not voted for him and also for those who are from another constituency or from another country. Such predictability means that then, year after year, the party knows where to put its candidate, voters cannot influence it, they cannot choose and the party can determine who will come to Parliament. Let me say again, I have nothing against political parties and I oppose this persecution and mistrust that has been established against political parties in Slovenia in recent years. We fought 30 years ago for a normal democratic system that has political parties. We said that's the kind of democracy we want, normally. And as I always say, my pattern, I like these quotes, because it wasn't quite perfect, because we know Winston Churchill said, I quote again freely after memory: The democratic system, as we know it, is not ideal, but we haven't invented any better yet. In the democratic system, not only in Slovenia, but also everywhere, we have political parties. What does the preferred voice bring? The preferred vote is to balance this power of the political party, which is important, with the power of the electorate. As has been said many times before, a smart political party will place candidates from the entire electoral unit on the 11 candidates' list to cover it as much as possible. The same thing happens in European elections. I'm not talking about the others. I'm gonna tell them about the Sab client. In the SAB party, we had eight out of eight candidates in the European elections, let's say traditional regions in Slovenia, to cover as many voters as possible to give us a voice and confidence. And this same system remains in place if the constituency is lifted. At the same time, this system rewards working, identifiable individuals who advocate in Parliament for what they have been elected, for the list for which they have been voted, for the values that their voters represent. And they need to work and be visible and recognize that they will get a preferential voice. In this way there will be Members, and in each mandate there are some who sit in Parliament and almost never report that voters do not even know that they exist and where they are being punished. And I think that's a good thing. The emissary's salary is not a bad salary. And the fact that someone can get it in the back row and sit in the back row for four years doesn't actually say no boo to him, not to him, if you do, I'd rather stick around a little bit so I don't get exposed so no one can criticize me. Because if you have an opinion, someone's criticizing you, they don't agree with you. They wouldn't be rewarded. I think that's fine. To these evil floods, Mrs Bah Žibert can even tell them so well why we are trying to do so. You can pack this up so we have some interests. In the end, people will know you're afraid of them. You're afraid of voters. You're afraid the voters will decide. The party will retain one of its strengths and will offer voters a list of candidates that it thinks are good to represent a customer, that they are working, that they are professional, that they cover different areas. The voters will then decide within who seems important to them to represent. And that's what you're afraid of. You say "yes, yes, because we know why some want to change the system because they did not come to Parliament." And I'll say, yes, it is. This system, which we have so far, on many occasions proves how unfair the system is. And if I don't talk about others, I'm gonna talk about us again. Alenka Bratušek, a party with the name of the President on behalf of the party, received 5 mandates. Most of the people who voted were elected because they supported Alenka Bratušek because of Alenka Bratusek. We have the power of a personalized system where the SDS support Janez Janša and Levico for Luke Mesca. That's the way it is. In such a system, the party's president did not come to Parliament, although she received the absolute maximum number of votes from all of us on this list, and absolutely twice as many votes from the one who came instead. But that's what our system is. If you get a few dozen percent more in a small district, which is now unconstitutional, because there are really few votes in it — if you get a few dozen percent more, then the one is chosen, whether people like it or not, whether it's fair or not. I don't think so. I think that Members should also be rewarded for their work in this regard. And then every Member would know – oh, fuck, we have a preferential voice if I want to be elected, if I want to get preferential votes, I'd better work, I better work, I better try, I better, I better debate, I better not be quiet. But no. And then the whole region will be without Members. This is the first time, as has already been said a hundred times, that is a completely wrong concept. We have two assemblies in this country: the National Assembly and the Council of State. Regional interests, municipal interests, local interests are represented by the Constitution in another home, not in the National Assembly, but in the State Council. Members who represent all people are supposed to sit in the National Assembly. Even if you're from a retirement party, you have to think about the future of young people. And even if you're from Koper, you have to think about how good they'll live in Maribor. That's what our constitution stipulates. They say that now, within this constituency, where there will be no thefts, the larger cities will decide. It's not true at all. Larger cities will also decide [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Madam Ambassador, your time is up. Thank you. [[advertising from the hall]] How? Yeah, yeah, you just didn't hear. Here you go. Procedural. But don't use it procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u82	Thank you for your warning, Comrade Vatovac. I signed up as Masha Kociper. I applied to the round of panellists as Ambassador Maša Kociper. I had, and that's how I debated, another 14 minutes of debate. If the National Assembly has measured me this time as a lawmaker, where I have had 10 minutes, it is a mistake of the National Assembly. I'm asking you to give me an extra four minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u83	Wait a minute. Let's get back together. I've recorded you here as a member of the Party's delegation, Alenka Bratušek, where the party's time together is limited. [[advertising from the hall]] You were counted as a proponent, now they're telling me. Yeah, that's wrong. Okay, we'll fix it. I'm taking a five-minute break to get this over with. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 15.27 and resumed at 15.31.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u84	Dear colleagues, we continue the meeting. The word is Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Now I've fallen out of the ham, but I won't be wrong. I would just like to say that the fear of all those who fear that, because of the abolition of the constituencies, only the great cities will elect a Member. Surely they will not elect in cities a bad Member – an inactive one, one who will not represent a party, one who will collide, just as one of the Members does in this House. That's not what they're going to vote for. And if there is a good MP from a small district, there is also an excellent opportunity within the constituency to be elected, even though we have really lowered the threshold so low that you can skip your colleague in front of you quite quickly. If all the Members were more working, more debate, more study, more talk with voters and so on, I think that would be just good. As far as the amendments and what was still being done at the time of the adoption of this law are concerned, that is all. The law before us is the compromise of the parties who have signed it. And of course it's not necessarily the best, I've already said that. Among other things, we had several amendments proposed by the Legal and Legislative Service on the previous Committee, but one of these amendments was not adopted on a proposal from the Legal and Legislative Service. This is a suggestion that the lists are not filled, but that each candidate list has at least half of the Members on the list. This proposal was not adopted, which means that it is necessary for a party to have a candidate list in such a system to give a much larger number of candidates. Maybe it's against the Constitution. ZPS thinks it is. If the law had been adopted today, it would appear that it would not, the Constitutional Court would have judged it. Just as the Constitutional Court will judge the second law, the law on electoral districts, if it comes to Parliament. He is not there yet, and the deadline is due for the unconstitutional or abolition of the anti-constitution on Monday. Even if that other law comes to Parliament and if the derogations in the individual constituencies remain very large, even after 40, 50%, this will also be judged by the Constitutional Court and say whether this is acceptable. I don't think so. If I finish now within this time I have left. I am very interested in what the vote will be today and whether at least it will take place in the context of what individual parties have announced. If we stick to what the Members said in the previous vote, we only need one vote. And we'll see how long they run out today. I have now heard that one of the Members of New Slovenia is on a medical examination, I assure their leader of the parliamentary group that without difficulty before the vote we will take a break, what the Rules of Procedure allow us, and we wait for this Member to come. It's an extremely important question, and I have no problem waiting for it to come. Another time. I, too, miss the representative of the Hungarian National Community. For the first time, he was one of three people who did not support the marriage. I think that we have all received this, Members, the Hungarian National Community, which represents it, has decided to support this law, which also regulates the election of their representative and simplifies these elections in accordance with their proposals. It's over. In fact, in the end, we are really talking about whether we are afraid of voters or not, whether we want voters to have a decisive vote or not, and whether we want to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. I personally and the SAB party will give all available votes for this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. We continue to discuss those that we have won in the elections of more than 35%, which we have been elected at least three times. I can also say that I agree that the electoral system in Slovenia does not reflect the direct will or the real will of the people, citizens, citizens, in the National Assembly. I have been in my debates many times and many times in all these almost ten years, since I have represented the voters where I have been elected, even though you say that we are all somehow representatives of all Slovenians and Slovenes here in Parliament, I present to a great extent the regret and concern of the electorate in my beautiful Slovenian Gorica, where my family has lived for over 400 years, where my ancestors were also agricultural ministers in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, where the Members of the Vienna Parliament were, where the people who first hung the Slovenian flag in our places where the Masters were fighters and so on. Even in a proportional electoral system in smaller places, people know who you are, how you write yourself, what your loved ones have done for this place, whether you're reliable, whether you're working or capable or what your projects are. Unfortunately, that's all that counts. I come from a party that has a tradition of its work, its virtue, and not only is it a client of Janez Janša, but it is a party of the great majority of the Slovenian people and with great support for the work, because of the personal projects of many people, not only Members, also municipal saints, mayors. This customer receives from year to year despite the media monopoly in Slovenia on its side a large majority of people. There are also some other parties. When you discussed, I took a closer look at all the projects under which I was at least partially involved, with which the six mayors we are somehow involved, my constituency is counted on the Lenart administrative unit, has about 20,000 inhabitants and, I could say, extremely good creative cooperation, precisely because we are small because we have always been alienated from Ljubljana and we have tried. So as a Member, I can say that this system, which is distorted, I will not support, I want a classic majority electoral system. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u88	Unfortunately, time is gone. The list of applicants has been exhausted. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see it's an interest and I'll open up the application. I'm asking you to sign up. [[turn off the microphone – technical problems]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! This is how I'm gonna start. The most dissatisfaction or disagreement with the proposed law we have been able to hear from the largest parliamentary party, and I wonder why a party with the largest number of representatives in the National Assembly is fighting its own people. We could see this in the referendum initiatives, when it prohibits them just after the current tape, and we can see it now when we talk about the model of elections where the electorate could have a very concrete impact on who would actually be sitting in the National Assembly. This direct influence, which our electorate does not have now after the current electoral system, would give him a relative priority vote. When we talk about today's proposal for a law that somehow gives one solution and gives the opportunity to actually implement the Constitutional Court's decision, we know that we are running out of time on Monday, I wonder why, given all this disagreement by the SDS party, but in these nine months of your rule, you have not drawn up a law that would implement a constitutional decision that would change across your borders and thus satisfy the requirements of the Constitutional Court. Why haven't you done this in these nine months? In fact, in our house, in the National Assembly of this Law there is not yet a moment and we cannot yet deal with it, and if we wait for you, we will be late, in any case, we will miss the deadline set by the Constitutional Court. During these nine months, you had time for all the infamous staff exchanges, you had time to decommission social sub-systems, you had time to deal with the STA, you had time to deal with the media, but you didn't have time to prepare a law that would be in your best interests and that would be a successful solution to the unconstitutional situation we were in. The law that you would like to have is a law that changes the constituency is designed so that it will not permanently solve the situation in which, if we know that the number of inhabitants in the district depends on demographic change, it depends on the displacement of people, and we will witness it in the future, and even in the years that follow, we will find ourselves in the same situation that we are in today. So that your emergency exit, which we do not yet have in the National Assembly, yet you are predicting it, does not offer a good enough, quality or lasting solution, so in my opinion or in the opinion of the vast majority in this House, is not the right solution. In our view, a more elegant solution is a preferred voice, which in the proportional electoral system that we have set out in the constitution, will allow our voters to say directly who will actually sit in the National Assembly. This option has been very well accepted by people in elections to the European Parliament, where we know that the possibility of using a preferential voice in a very high percentage has also been taken advantage of. Therefore, I see no reason why we should not give this equal opportunity in elections to the Slovenian National Assembly. If I touch very quickly on your reasons for speaking against our proposed solution, they are, in my opinion, very incomprehensible. Let's say that the voter has a preferred vote and that the choice of md individual candidates can be said to be no added value. It's just a hoax. In fact, this is a statement made without a factual basis, because it is in itself an indication of this, we can see that if an electorate has a choice between 11 candidates in each of the parties, yes, of course, he has a greater choice and has a greater opportunity to directly influence the outcome of the elections. The argument that there is no added value, does not last, does not drink water and is practically attracted to hair. Earlier, I listened to the discussions of my colleagues, especially from the SDS, when my electorate spoke, my constituency – this in my opinion is not an appropriate expression, of course I allow all the right to use it, but we should all be aware that we are Members of the whole people, no matter where we were elected, no matter where we come from. Grouping up on individual constituencies where we have been elected or where we come from is practically unconstitutional. I know it's a very harsh term, but the Constitution tells us that we are representatives of the entire people. If we are fighting or if you are fighting primarily for the rights or for the benefit of citizens or citizens of the province where you have been elected, in my opinion you are not carrying out your mission, i.e. the work of a Member of the National Assembly, sufficiently conscientious, because you should represent equally and equally well and fight for all citizens, not only for the local population, where you come from or where you have been elected. It's about sex quotas. In my opinion, they are not disputed because, last time the voter chooses on the list, whether we have or do not have these sex quotas, I believe that our voters will choose by quality, after whom they want to represent them in the National Assembly. If there is also fear that such and other Slovenians will be known on the lists and so on, if you fear this, respected colleagues in the SDS, then you fear your own judgment. How a party's list will be drawn up is still decided by the party, but it is the voters who will decide which one of your chosen candidates will be given their vote. I believe that voters will choose according to some of the criteria that will be most important to them, and I hope that the quality of an individual will also prevail. I really don't understand why the representatives of the largest parliamentary party are so afraid of people choosing ad persons. I really don't understand your fear. If I conclude with this, I think that this is a great added value to our electoral system, so that we can take a step forward and give the electorate the right choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudy Bear has the floor. I ask you whether you want a word from the LMSH quota or as a candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u91	On behalf of the parliamentary group, not as a proposalr.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u92	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u93	Thank you very much. At the end of this debate, it is right to ask ourselves once again not to lose track of why we are here today. Because we are responsible and because the deadline set by the Constitutional Court to put electoral tasks in constitutional frameworks expires in three days. Very simple, after December 21st, if anything happens to the elections in the National Assembly, a great shadow of uncertainty will descend on them not to say illegality. The proposal to amend the Law on Elections to the National Assembly by a preferential vote is an opportunity to implement this constitutional decision in practice with a guarantee that we will also meet the requirements of the Constitutional Court. We have all co-ordinated the amendments to this law together for a long time with the most prominent constitutional lawyers in this country, and finally came to a solution which I can say is that in some ways also constitutional lawyers have turned on the green light, so to speak, that it is water-proof in relation to the decision of the Constitutional Court and that we can also implement the decision of the Constitutional Court within a period of time. It is true that many decisions have not yet been made, but this is an election. This is an election and one of the most important constitutional decisions. I believe that the Minister of Public Administration is suffering from all of this, and I think he must also be in distress because I know that he personally advocates the introduction of a relative preferential vote. This is also advocated by the client from whom it comes. And here he is now in the role of defending something that is not his own private choice. And even worse, even though he is a lawyer, he has to defend or if we are not able today to confirm this amendment of the law, he will soon have to defend a solution for which in the List of Marjan Šarc, not only in the List of Marjan Šarc, we believe that he will not comply with the requirements of the Constitutional Court decision. The decision of the Constitutional Court is very clear and only changes in the borders in some minimum corrections, some more than ten of the thefts are expected to be slightly corrected, and this relationship is now almost one to four between the smallest and the largest constituencies, which is clearly the reason why the Constitutional Court has decided to make such a statement in its decision to correct it on one to three, which is, in fact, nothing compared to the enormous differences in the size of the electoral districts. It's almost nothing. I do not believe which Constitutional Court could declare such a minimum correction constitutionally consistent. I don't know how that could happen. Especially because if we follow international practice, and if we remain in European practice, these tolerances are, in fact, still significantly lower than we have foreseen in the proposal for a law amending the borders of electoral thefts when we took this 10% derogation, in an extreme situation of 15%. There's less tolerance. If we just look around the neighborhood – not 10% or up to 10%, then the borders have to change. So I am just warning that from Monday we continue to come to another field when we are in the National Assembly – of course, the ordinary majority is enough and that the biggest party is also aware, so the government’s opinion is also appropriate – we are walking on the edge and taking a huge risk that future elections will not be constitutionally consistent. Of course, the Constitutional Court will certainly have to be asked before the elections are even held if there is time for that. It is true, however, that in fact, in a conceptual sense, the advocates of this solution and the advocates of the preservation of electoral thefts in the foundations are quite different in their positions. If someone is convinced that he is a candidate of his own constituency and says he has worked, will work and will work forever for his constituency, then, of course, it is difficult to persuade the biggest government party to listen at all times to the arguments why the abolition of electoral thefts and the introduction of a relative priority vote. On the other hand, it is a kind of underestimation of voters who do not have the right to choose between the candidates of a particular party. And if they have one forced candidate who, as someone has said, goes even five or six steps. Think, five or six steps before he can run. But what stairs? Yeah, inside the party. I think that's the most important step on the ballot inside the competition, within the individual customer. But you don't accept this argument because you say you already know who you're going to run for election in a particular district, not to tell the voters. The point of insistence on non-amendment is some fear that voters would directly decide who your representative should be in the National Assembly. After this discussion, you will probably have a good time, and I will return to my electoral district for Christmas. Or is it also insufferable because we know that this system in which the elections have taken place so far allows for a wide variety of calculations and, as a result, perhaps punishing its Members to find themselves in an area in which they will never be elected. But it's just a matter of every single customer. The solution to this is, of course, the competition offered by amendments to the electoral law and at the level of the individual electoral unit of the 11 candidates of the individual party, among which voters can therefore choose. After what we have heard today, I must say that in the List of Marjan Šarca we will be even more keen to support the amendments to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, because, in fact, it is only from all of this that we see how we are right and how we want to go in this way to the electorate and electorate, as opposed to advocates of electoral thefts who want to persist in an old, closed bubble, in some comfort zone, a zone of predictability and waiting for every new election.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I see there's no interest. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate on Article 14 and the amendment of the SAB, SD and Levica groups of Members. I am putting to the debate Article 18 and the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? Ms. Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Vice President. The proposed amendment is, as you said, an amendment to Article 18 of this Act. Several amendments have already been adopted on the committee. Practically all have been proposed in the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service in order to comply with their comments. However, this amendment, unlike the amendment to Article 14, is different. This amendment responds to the concerns of one of the Members, who wrote on her Facebook page that she would be willing to adopt this law if she had implemented this option. So what does this amendment set out? This law, as has already been said, incorporates a so-called women's quota into the text of the law, providing that at least 40 % of the sex should be represented on each candidate list. In Slovenia this is, unfortunately, still a woman's sex, so we are talking about the so-called women's quota. In addition, the law already has a provision in place that candidates on the candidate list, as in the European elections and local elections, must be classified according to the system of restraint, according to the first sex, second sex, second sex, which also ensures the equal representation of both sexes. With this amendment, signed by the three parties, the SD, the Left Party and the SAB, we propose something that has already been highlighted during the negotiations that this principle of gender representation should be applied to at least 40% of candidates in the first place on the candidate list. So, if I simplify, if there are eight candidates in eight constituencies, at least three candidates must have one sex and the other five sexes first, or the ideal four genders and four other genders. If this will help the decision of this Member, which has pointed out that it is crucial for it to vote for this Act, and if this contributes to evener representation, then the party of the SAB and probably the other proponents do not have a problem with it and we will support the decision in the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing there's no interest. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, 15 minutes after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the organization and police work within the framework of the restricted procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 35 Members and Members with the first signed by Mateya Udovč. In order to explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mateja Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u97	Your Honor! We have before us a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Law on the organisation and work of the police, which I, as a candidate, have put into the legislative procedure together with co-signed Members. With the proposal for a law, we want to regulate the right to rent a service apartment while retiring for indefinite periods for police officers who have a recognised status as a war veteran in a self-serving war for Slovenia. Only those officials who have the status of a war veteran and the rental contract concluded by the Ministry of the Interior will be entitled to this right. With this amendment of the law, veterans of war, employees of the police, will have the same rights as their colleagues in the Slovenian Army. This issue was regulated by the National Assembly in 2017 when, on the proposal of Members and Members, it adopted a new Law on Organising and Working in the Police, but this amendment of the Law primarily regulated the living problems of disabled persons and families of a war veteran who had rented an official residence of the Ministry of the Interior at the time of death. However, all war veterans employed in the police force were then promised that the solution to the housing problem would be included in the amendment of the War Veterans Act, but unfortunately to this day no government, nor any competent ministry of war veterans, has prepared appropriate legal solutions for handling and adoption in the National Assembly. The law on police organisation and work lays down procedural rules, the right to rent a service apartment and the authority to decide on the allocation of service apartments for police officers. The rules for the rental of service apartments of the Ministry of the Interior are laid down by an internal act of the Ministry. The allocation of the right to rent shall be decided by the competent commission within the Ministry. Therefore, we are also convinced that this legal issue is more appropriate to be fully regulated in the law on the organisation and work of the police than in the law on war veterans, as proposed in 2017. In the proposal for a law, we propose that the law in force be supplemented by new Articles 109.b and 109.c, which regulates the right for war veterans to extend the lease for an indefinite period even after their retirement. These new articles cover all categories of police officers who have acquired the status of war veteran. So those who are still employed in the police force, as well as those who were transferred to the Ministry of the Interior after a major police reorganisation in 2010, or moved to another state body. The bill does not give new rights or rights to all war veterans, but the right is granted only to those war veterans who have stayed in those apartments until they retire and are threatened with a break in their employment and eviction. It should also be noted that these beneficiaries also have built-in fuses to prevent potential abuses. So it's the right of war veterans who don't own another apartment or property that's fit to stay, or sufficient funds to buy a comparable apartment. The solutions proposed allow the lease to continue indefinitely and, in the event of death, this right is transferred to their immediate family members, but of course, taking into account the same criteria under this law. This is their social hazard and property situation. The only exception is children who are allowed to stay only for a time when a war veteran would be subject to the obligation to support a child in accordance with the rules governing family relations. Today we will be able to show and prove with the support of Members to change the law that veterans of the war for Slovenia are not and will never be forgotten and pushed to the brink of social events in our country, the country for which they have also fought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branku Grims. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you again! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered this proposal at an urgent meeting on 11 December 2020. He took note of the fundamental solution that, in this case, it is the aim of the law to regulate matters only for veteran wars for Slovenia, which work within the police and have also completed their career within the police, and he also addressed two amendments to the proposal. He accepted both amendments. At the end, the Committee adopted the entire text of the law, which, of course, is proposed for adoption by 18 votes in favour and none against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Franco Kangler, to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, for an introductory presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the amendment of the legislation tabled by Members of the National Assembly. True, it is sad that it took us 30 years to resolve this problem of war veterans coming from police or police and MNZ personnel. It is unacceptable that after retirement, police officers and employees of the Ministry of Health, whether they are veterans or not, find themselves in social distress, in the social crisis, and in particular their housing problem is not resolved. That is why we support this amendment of the proposal, and above all it is important that 30 years from what Slovenia has begun to think seriously about becoming independent. In 1991 they were police officers and other members of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who were willing to die for Slovenia. This isn't about any privileged people, this is about having the same rights as everyone else. Today this problem is resolved in some other structures of the state administration, such as in the education of teachers when they retire and their close relatives, and no one has solved the problem of police officers. True, the government has made several amendments to 109.d and 109.c. The harmonisation amendment proposed by the coalition parties partially covers all comments made by the Government. With regard to the second part, after a study at the Ministry of the Interior, we note that the Minister will comply with his rules on the allocation of housing and will take up those proposals from the Government which have been forwarded to the National Assembly. We propose that you also support this amendment to the Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Left Group will be presented to us by Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u103	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Your Honor! In Levica, we always support measures that address the social pressures of individuals. The housing problem is certainly one of the most pressing and cause of many social pressures. The proposal to amend the law solves the problem that should be regulated by the War Veterans Act. The transitional provisions of the 2017 Law on Organising and Working in the Police, which we also supported, set out, inter alia, that the Law on War veterans should regulate the rental of office apartments for war veterans. This arrangement as usual has not taken place. Many, however, find themselves in severe social distress because they are at risk of being parted. The need for such a legal solution primarily reminds us and reminds us that the housing problem in Slovenia is very pressing. Many are unable to afford an apartment without sufficient regular income or rent. We have already drawn attention to housing problems, jobs, the rise in poverty between the unemployed and the workers. It is practically not a month before we refer any initiative or question to the Government. Not only is income inequality a problem, but wealth inequality is an even bigger problem. The ownership of dwellings or other immovable property brings this property inequality even further to the term. Access to housing is one of the most problematic areas. We have a national housing programme, we have funds at national and local level, but what, when there is no clear strategy, is not enough resources and there is not enough political will. The Republic Fund builds luxury apartments that few people can afford, including the irregular Airbnb until the outbreak, have been inflating rents, and the non-profit apartments are underprivileged, at least 10,000. Office apartments are rare. Despite the fact that a new law was also adopted with the support of the Left in 2017, which stipulated that the Law on War Veterans should deal with the extension of leases upon retirement, this has not been the case to date. Clearly, this was not an important enough political issue, even though many face social distress when they retire. It should be noted, however, that many other police workers who have served most of the working hours for low wages in this service have also obtained the right to an apartment and have lost that right after retirement. A worker with a minimum wage will receive a miserable pension after retirement. Such a person cannot afford to rent an apartment or stay in the home of older citizens, nothing. In Levi, of course, we will support this proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The positions of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u105	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Mr Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats We support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Organising and Working in the Police because the bill does not deviate from the principles that have already been taken into account in the drafting of the law and its novelty, which was adopted at the end of 2017. The proposed amendments follow the values of the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, which will address certain shortcomings that were identified at the time the law was announced. At that time, the competent ministry undertook to examine the housing problem of police officers and police officers and to merge the amended proposal into a new Law on War veterans. Unfortunately, no government or competent ministry has submitted the proposal to the National Assembly by 2020. In Novi Slovenija we welcome the adoption by the Ministry of the Interior in early December of a regulation on the award of service apartments of the Ministry, where the problem is addressed by addressing long-standing outstanding issues in the area of the extension of leases for indefinite periods for the most socially vulnerable groups of employees and retired workers of the police and the ministry. In Christian Democrats, we carefully examined the law and, after careful consideration, proposed an amendment already adopted, which narrows the beneficiaries for the extension of the lease so that the entitlement would not extend to adults who were with the tenant in the guardianship relationship. We believe that such a definition, which goes beyond immediate family members, would be too broad and could lead to abuse of the proposed regime. We have further proposed in paragraph 4 of the new 109.b of Article that the definition of the duration of the child's entitlement to renewal of the contract shall be linked to the permanent obligations of child survival in accordance with the provisions of Article 183 of the Family Code. This is a much clearer dictatorship, which prevents us from staying in a state apartment for too long until the age of 27. We also point out that the law respects social criteria, as it gives the right to extend the lease only if the person cannot afford an adequate apartment. A proposed law on the organisation and work of the police in New Slovenia – we support Christian Democrats, because it will fully and clearly regulate the position of individuals or individuals who have the status of veterans or veterans in the war for Slovenia under the War Veterans Act, the legitimate rental of an apartment or apartment administered by the Ministry of the Interior. With support, we want to show the country's respectful attitude and gratitude towards individuals and individuals who were willing to sacrifice their lives in the war for Slovenia, who were fighting for independent and sovereign Slovenia and for the democratic Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u107	Your Honor! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the organisation and work of the police regulates the right to extend the rental of housing for indefinite periods even after retirement for war veterans, police officers and police officers. Those who have stayed in these flats until retirement will be entitled to an extension of the rent for an indefinite period of time after retirement. We do not oppose the proposed solution in the SAB. We are aware that the housing problem of police veterans has been lingering for a long time and is still not regulated. Military veterans employed in the police are in an unequal position compared to war veterans employed in the Slovenian Army. They are entitled to apply for an indefinite lease upon retirement, which is not possible for war veterans to do so. Otherwise, the proposed amendments would regulate this inequality. The assessment of the eligibility to extend the lease for an indefinite period will take into account social and property risks. We support efforts to regulate the situation of the people who defended the Republic of Slovenia on its independence and have received a medal for their work. We have already proved this in the SAB by allowing them free inter-national public passenger transport and by fighting to gain such a benefit for urban passenger transport. But it's a matter of matter that actually falls under another law. The position of war veterans is governed by the War Veterans Act. In the SAB we advocate a systematic change of legislation. Already in Slovenia, we face overriding, causing a number of uncertainties. The number of laws and regulations is still increasing. Such a non-systematic amendment of existing legislation, however, may lead to even more impreciseness and, as a result, more confusion. The legal rules must be clear and understandable that they can be effective. In the SAB Group, we will not oppose the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group The Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia will present Yuri Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u109	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings to all! The mission of the police is to help people, to take care of their security and property security. We probably all agree that police officers carry out this task with the highest degree of integrity, as demonstrated by the high level of confidence in the work of the Slovenian police from year to year. Many times, however, we forget that the exercise of these tasks is also linked to a high risk to health, injury, disability and, last but not least, to the risk of losing their lives. Because of the nature of police work and various personnel needs, some police officers drive from one end of our country to another, while some live in police or ministry service apartments, which are not sufficient for all or are intended for active staff under current legislation. Thus, the current law does not provide for the extension of leases to retired police officers, nor to disabled persons, nor to their family members. At this point, I would like to remind police officers, who are also veterans of the war for Slovenia, and of media releases from 2017, when the two policemen who have retired were almost retired due to inadequate legal arrangements. With the rapid change of law, this problem was urgently resolved, for which we are grateful in the Desus Group. Despite his good purpose, however, he did not fully escape, as it later turned out that an upgrade was needed to avoid any new injustices. In our view, the proposal of this amendment represents this upgrade and solves the issue of the use of police personnel' service apartments, both active staff, pensioners and war veterans. It also specifies in more detail who, and in what way, is entitled to use such an apartment. I have in mind, above all, family members, in the event of the above-mentioned cases. In the Desus Group, we are pleased that the proposed regulation follows the values of the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, the principles of the social state and the equal or comparable protection of the rights of veterans of war for Slovenia in the security authorities, both in the MORS or the Slovenian Army and in the police or the MNZ. This also shows the state's attitude towards individuals who were willing to sacrifice their lives in the war for Slovenia when they were fighting for independent and sovereign Slovenia and for a democratic republic. At the proposal of the Law, the Legal and Legislative Service had no comments, except for some substantive ones. However, all the amendments proposed made sense and adopted by consensus or by a large majority on the Committee. In the Desus Group, we believe that the novel solves an important problem, so we are pleased that the support for the law comes from both coalition and opposition types. It is also a thank you to our colleague, Mateja Udovč, who has actually persisted and also succeeded in bringing this law into the legislative procedure. We will majority support the proposal in our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u111	All in attendance, all in attendance! In the Republic of Slovenia, access to housing is a very attractive area. Three years ago, the law dealt with such a problem, and the current amendment of the law indicates a shift in the right direction. Police officers are those who daily expose their health, life for the welfare of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. They are exposed to numerous injuries, occupational diseases, stress, workplace burns, and therefore require appropriate professional psychological assistance. In our country, police officers are still understaffed, but we need more and more to protect the southern border. The status of war veterans is still not fully regulated and unified. For this reason, it is necessary to uniformly regulate the situation of all categories of police officers who have done something for our Slovenia to live well today in an independent and sovereign country where we have parliamentary democracy. At the same time, it is also necessary to ensure that active police officers are not deprived. There are also guards in the bill that there will be no abuse. Criteria such as social threats and property are an important factor. In view of all their efforts and sacrifices to war veterans employed in the police, we must also allow the right to maintain the service apartment after retirement, so that they will not be a social problem tomorrow and will be thrown on the road. We must not forget that this is a category of vulnerable groups that can be found at the edge of the existence of survival, where there is no exclusion from the service apartment. Thus, war veterans who have entered into a rental relationship for a service or other apartment which is part of a state-owned property and which is in the administration of the Ministry of the Interior are allowed to continue the rental relationship at the time of retirement. The rental of an apartment is also possible to close family members of a veteran at the time of his death. In the Slovenian Police Union, employers have been appealed for a long time to the employer that the regulation of housing problems is also important in solving the significant human resources crisis in the police. At present, there are quite some shortcomings in the current 88th Article of the Law. All apartments that have been vacant for a long time due to lack of interest on the part of police officers could also be sold. This is the case in Brežice, New Town, Montenegro. When buying new apartments, they are supposed to be rational to buy the latter where they are most lacking, and this is Ljubljana, Koper, Maribor, Kranj, or the biggest interest. There should also be greater flexibility in the exchange of work apartments, since there are many young families who are struggling to increase and older tenants are staying in oversized apartments. We will support the proposal of the Slovenian National Party in the Parliamentary Group, as we are also co-signatory. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u113	Say good-bye to everyone again! The law before us today regulates the debt for quite a number of years ago and gives a signal at the same time. It regulates the area of war veterans who have participated within the police in the war for Slovenia and have questioned their health, their lives, everything a man has to keep the apartment even after they end their career within the police. Probably all this should have been settled a long time ago, but better late than never. At the same time, there were quite a few comments and a desire on the part of the police to make this more general. Therefore, on this occasion, I should say that the Minister announced that they would shortly prepare a legislative amendment in its entirety, which would regulate the whole of things and be the possibility of access to the apartment, in cooperation with the Housing Fund, also one of the levers which would allow for some ratings for people entering the police service, and in the same way that things would be settled for the military in the perspective. In this way, these services, which are extremely important for the functioning of a country without which virtually no state exists, would be properly regulated, so that they would be more interesting for young people who are very lacking in both services. You know that, according to the Schengen criteria, the police and the Slovenian Armed Forces urgently need additional human resources to be completed to the extent required by the modern security and other challenges facing the current world on the one hand by globalisation, illegal migration, and even in recent times, the pandemic is unfortunate. In this way, things would be arranged within a few months for those not covered by today’s law. But today's law is important because it also gives a signal. A signal to all who participated in the war for Slovenia that the war for Slovenia is something that we are justly proud of, that we will never forget and will never forget all those who questioned their lives, their health for our homeland of Slovenia, for its independence, that today we can speak and adopt laws and regulate our own country, which we could only dream of thousands of years before. From this point of view, the law is an important signal and from this point of view, and from this point of view, we will gladly vote in favour of this law in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca, will be presented by Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u115	Yeah. Each Member shall have a duty to discuss, decide and, lastly, vote, and at the same time submit laws. And that's what our colleague Matthew did today, who actually took advantage of the opportunity of a government week. In fact, the government should have done this a long time ago and settled this issue, but it is not. Why isn't he here? Probably because he has other plans and other ideas, but they can tell us very well what they'll do when they do, if they do, and then we'll never experience it. Even today, we have heard quite a few pointers from both the Group of Members and the Secretary of State to deal with these issues. That is why we support such a bill or amendment. It is true, however, that it is very minimalist, for both veteran organisations are calling on us, especially the government, so that we should actually set up a bunch of other things. We should address the issue of the status of veterans, the conditions of how you become a veteran at all, and, most importantly, what is the status in terms of law and equality before the law also in our legal system. What is a war veteran anyway? Do we have a definition made? Sorry, our legislation is still not clear today, exactly what it is. And after such an arrangement, which we will accept today and is welcome, we will also receive new veterans of war. If we got new fighters years ago, that's what it's gonna be. Of course, it is a problem because housing is a question not only for veterans of war, but for all citizens, especially young people, who are starting a new life. How are we going to solve this issue? We have one key and phenomenal problem, that we all love to talk about good conditions, but the country does not want them and does not know how to provide them. We should have so many apartments in this country that there would be a few empty, empty, state-owned or municipal property, for one simple reason — that the rent price would also be significantly lower and that the apartment could be given to anyone who would like to create and work in a particular area. The future of the Republic of Slovenia is based, as we all like to repeat very much, on young people. What are we gonna do with them? Today we have only a presentation of the views of this law, which is likely to be adopted unanimously. But I am particularly interested in what we will do for the future of this country with young people, what we will do with housing policy. We've been dealing with housing policy for 30 years, we've been throwing money into roads, we're throwing it into railways now, and we don't want it in apartments. And these are the key questions that should be answered in all this. And I believe and I'm sure the veterans would be even more pleased because you knew what they were fighting for 30 years ago, because we're going in the right direction. Believe me, war veterans care more than they care about themselves what happens to their descendants. This should concern all of us, and these are the questions we need to answer. Unfortunately, only Members and Members of Parliament are opening them, not the government. Governments have, as a rule, been promising us about systemic solutions, and the system has, in fact, been gone for a long time in this country. It's just political ideology. And that's the problem. As long as we have this burden on our heads, we will not be able to resolve systemic issues for as long as we can. We are pleased that we will be able to participate in supporting at least one small fraction that some deserve.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u117	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues! The challenges of solving the housing problems of former police employees were already addressed by the National Assembly in 2017. At that time, he adopted such a legal solution that stopped the employment of two retired police officers with the status of a war veteran and also with health problems. In addition, it was decided to set up a working interdepartmental group to prepare appropriate legal solutions in the law to regulate the situation of war veterans. These solutions have not been prepared by the government, but before us is the amendment to the law on organisation and work in the police, which, with additions, regulates the right of a war veteran to an office apartment or apartment owned by the Republic of Slovenia, which has been granted to him by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The Social Democrats will support this proposal. However, we do not want to see those employees who are retired or who do not have any other suitable housing property creating friction between the younger and the older generation due to matters where the employment is concerned or the extension of the employment contract. All members of the police force, former, present and future, who are and will continue to care for one of the most important areas of our lives, this is the protection of the lives of people, personal security, the area of public order and peace, the protection of the state border and so on, not to mention, deserve an orderly and secure living situation. Social Democrats want the housing problems of police employees to be settled throughout the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia. At the meeting of the committee, the Secretary of State pointed out that there are 45 police officers on the waiting list and that they have quite a few empty apartments, which are usually outside of larger centres. On many occasions, however, we have heard that many of these empty apartments are in poor condition. The state will therefore have to agree with its housing fund, namely the Republic Housing Fund and, not least, with the local communities, to work with all stakeholders to work out a solution to the restoration of old apartments, co-financing and construction of new ones, and in this way also adequately regulate the housing problem for younger police. In fact, with appropriate national housing policies, those who consider entering the police ranks and who already have or will have families would be helped to decide to enter these police ranks. Such measures would help to gradually halt the decline in the number of employees in the police force. The problem is wide, we'll have to go after it. Of course, we support the proposed amendment by the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, Your Honor. Today, the National Assembly faces the problem of war veterans for the second time in a short time. As you know, by adopting the State Budget Balance Act for 2021 and 2022 we have amended certain provisions of the War Veterans Act, inter alia, reducing the age limit at which veterans have the right to exercise different rights. This one fell from 55 to 50 years. In addition, war veterans regained the right to medical and climate treatment. This has been followed by another intervention which took place by the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act. In the SMC Group, we are pleased that our member Mateja Udovč has come up with another pressing problem, which mainly burdens war veterans of the police force. As you know, the National Assembly has already faced this problem in its previous mandate, when it came to solving the housing problem for two retired police officers who were threatened with police employment because of health problems and disability. The law also adopted a transitional arrangement for the dead, the disabled, and the disabled, with health problems that have the status of a war veteran. It turned out that this transitional arrangement was inadequate, and the executive branch, which then promised to resolve the problem of war veterans, has not fulfilled its promises to this day. In this case, it is also the case that the SMC, which was running the government at the time, has justifiably announced the expectations that were exposed to the legislative process, namely that the government will approach both legislative changes and consider the possible reorganisation of the fund of all the service apartments available to the State. It is true that the issue of war veterans belongs to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, but in the SMC Group we estimate that it is more appropriate, as suggested by the first letter, that this issue is regulated by law, which provides for the organisation and work of the police, since this law provides for both the right to rent an apartment, the procedural rules and the authority that decides on the right to extend the contract of employment in which a war veteran already resides. In addition to the SMC, the proposal was tabled by a group of coalition members, SNS and minority MPs, for which we thank them. We also thank all the members of the parent working body who have supported this novel, as we are finally supporting our relationship to the independence of the Republic of Slovenia and individuals, the war veterans who fought for it. In doing so, the SMC would point out that the bill is fully supported by the North Police Veterans Association, where it points out that the housing problems of police veterans in rented apartments have been taking place for many years and that the proposed changes will improve the legal safety of renters. If this law had not been adopted in due time, the following jubilee year could be at the 30th anniversary of Slovenia's independence, which was also defended by veterans of war, some of whom were forcibly employed from previous rental apartments. To conclude, let me read part of the record of support for the law addressed to our fellow Member, Matejo Udovč, Mr. Janez Portir, retired police officer, veteran of the war for Slovenia, who received in 1992 an honorary sign of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia for exceptional merit in the defence of freedom and the exercise of the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia. I quote: "Let me point out before I conclude that I am not the only one, probably even the worst case, in a similar situation we have more than 250 of us, either retired military veterans or war veterans who are still employed and are looking forward to the adoption of the proposed amendments and the completion of the law. I am confident that next year, without the bitter taste and media exposure of the issue, we will celebrate together with pride the 30th anniversary of the realization of the Millennium Dreams of the Slovenian People. Finally, let me express my sincere thanks for the understanding and effort of the first-signed Members of SMC Mateja Udovč and her Group of Members, Members of all other groups of Members who have recognized our tribulation, and all those who have supported or supported and allowed the proposed amendments to be tabled and the law amended." In the SMC Group, we will, of course, unanimously support the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u120	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in 15 minutes in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item and the 54th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 17 and 5 minutes. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 4.49 p.m. and resumed at 17.05 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u121	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly and are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. The National Assembly will first vote on the 1st and then on the 2nd item of the agenda. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Before deciding on the first point of the day's handover, we are moving on to the hearing of the Prime Minister's Notice on the resignation of Tomaž Gantar from the post of Minister of Health. The President of the Government, John Ivan Janša, wrote me with a letter of 18. 12. 2020 informed Tomaž Gantar of his resignation as Minister of Health. In this regard, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that Tomaž Gantaru has ceased to serve as Minister of Health. On 18 December 2020, the President of the Government informed the National Assembly, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 234 of its Rules of Procedure, that he would serve as Minister of Health on his own. I thank Tomaž Gantar for his cooperation and wish him the best in his work. Procedurally, Comrade Jursch.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u122	We also and ourselves thank Tomaž Gantar for his work in difficult health conditions and wish him all the best in new jobs.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u123	We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly in the framework of the shorter procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 18. 12. 2020, published on the e-club. I inform you that, in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 80 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, an individual amendment will be adopted if two thirds of all Members vote for it, i.e. 60 or more. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SAB, SD and Levica groups to Article 14. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 13. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica to Article 18. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 7. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We ended up voting on the amendments and second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Before voting, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 80 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the law will be adopted if two thirds of all Members vote for it, 60 or more. Rudi Medved has an explanation of vote on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u124	Thank you, President. In the List of Marjan Šarc, as we have stressed several times today and even in the last two years, we support the abolition of election thefts and the introduction of a priority vote. In this way, we support the decisive move of voters and electorates, who will have an extremely strong tool in their hands with a priority vote on who will represent them in the National Assembly in the future. On the other hand, this is also a step away from the client's calculus, a step away from the shaking of Members, whether the party will place them in an electoral district or what will happen to their perimeter in the event of border changes. Today is an opportunity for elections, when they are to take place, within the constitutional framework. This law makes it possible. If the National Assembly does not accept this, there is a high risk that there will be a shadow of illegality in the future elections, because the supporters of the election thefts speculate and the electoral boundaries that the largest party wants to bring down through the National Assembly will potentially be unconstitutional. This is a dangerous game when a party's interest goes ahead of the public interest and client mathematics before the interests of the electorate. But let us repeat, after two years, voters already know that there is another possibility that there is an opportunity to give them this powerful tool, an impact on who will represent the voters in particular in the National Assembly. We will support this law, and if it is not adopted today in any case, we will certainly try to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Matej T. Vatovec on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u126	Thank you, President. In the Group of the Left, of course, we will support this law. In fact, there's only one option, and that's the one you have on the bench today. As I have already said in the debate today, the Ministry of Public Administration has already prepared some draft amendments to the electoral districts, and it has proved to be virtually impossible in this way to carry out or carry out what the Constitutional Court has decided in its decision. This means that if we want to achieve arithmetically equal electoral boundaries, it will simply break their second component, and this is some kind of geographical and cultural rounding. This turned out to be the case when the geographers tried to draw these edges, and we know that this mission is impossible. Here today we are essentially facing a very important dilemma – whether we will go to the next national elections with some system that will be legitimate, particularly legal or in accordance with the Constitution. If not, we have this great ignorance, which before us, who and how will be able to challenge any early or regular elections before the Constitutional Court, as the President of the Republic would say, in some way shake the very foundations of our democracy. Here today, all Members should put aside any party's or personal calculation and consider how to implement this decision of the Constitutional Court and how to ensure what it requires and what it should actually be for the benefit of all citizens and citizens or electors and voters, it is said that they have a single, clear, simple system in which they would have single lists in the constituencies and that people would decide by their own preferred votes who they want to see in the National Assembly. This would be the easiest way to achieve what the Constitutional Court requires of us, so we have also proposed this law once again, and therefore we also appeal in some way to all things in this place, to put aside any other calculations and to try together to achieve what is in some way required by the Constitutional Court and what is in fact expected at this point. So it's not speculation, it's a step that will contribute to some more unified and simplified electoral system.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u128	Thank you. In the SAB party, we have been working on this solution, which is to end the thefts and enforce the preferential vote for a long time, and we have also written it in our programme. Before the Constitutional Court decided two years ago that the system as we now have is unconstitutional because it does not allow the equal representation of voters and the same power of the electorate. Today we have a solution that this unconstitutionality established by the Constitutional Court is being abolished. Another possible law that would do the same has not yet been incorporated into the National Assembly, and the deadline for the abolition of the anti-constitution expires on Monday. Any elections that will take place after that date will, if not adopted today, be put into question by legitimacy, and that will be the responsibility of you, your respected colleagues and colleagues. This law is so necessary today that we need a two-thirds majority for it. So we will all look forward to seeing whether there will be 60 votes written on our screen. 60 votes sent to finally give the voters a decisive impact on the election of a Member, a decisive impact on who from the list of candidates will actually represent them in the National Assembly, a decisive impact on the reward of candidates who are working, representing voters representing the party's programme and working in accordance with what they have been elected to do. In the SAB Group we will certainly support this law, we are not afraid of the electorate, and today's vote will show who among you is who is the one who is more affected by the voter's choice of MP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-18-SDZ8-Izredna-54.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, for 55, for 26. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 26.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Organising and Working in the Police within the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, for 80, against no one. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 54th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly.
