ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 42nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Lidija Dijak Mirnik from 10 a.m. to 13 p.m., Jani Prednik, Ferenc Horváth from 17 p.m., Felice Žiža to 2.30 p.m. and Nataša Sukič from 10 a.m. to 11 p.m. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 42nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday, 13 July 2020, by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received a proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as referred to. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 42nd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand proposal for a law amending the law on the courts in the framework of an emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Zlatko Ratej.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The Government has drawn up a proposal for a law amending the Law on Courts amending the rules governing the operation of courts in the event of an emergency and during the summer operations. The amendment of the law was proposed by the Government for consideration under an urgent procedure. As I am sure you are following the epidemiological picture in Slovenia because of the increase in infection with the virus, it is rapidly changing. While the current Law on Courts already contains provisions on the conduct of courts in the event of an emergency. The current regulation provides for the functioning of the courts only in urgent cases. This is particularly about criminal and family matters. However, it does not provide for the possibility for the courts to solve cases that are not necessary. Therefore, it is not possible to resolve regular cases according to the court’s ability to deal with external circumstances and the impact of the court itself. At the last emergency, when an epidemic of viral disease was declared, the regulation proved to be insufficiently flexible in the event of events that were changing rapidly. Let us recall that it was necessary to adopt an intervention law at the time of the epidemic in order to further preserve the exercise of judicial authority while protecting the health and life of people. In the first place, therefore, the concern for a person who has been deprived of his or her rights during this period has been in the capacity to achieve or exercise his or her rights. By means of an intervention law, you have enabled the courts to operate more widely and increased the powers of the President of the Supreme Court. This could, of course, have, on the basis of legal limitations, decided on the scope of the proceedings under the assumption of the protection of health and the lives of both employees in the courts and of the parties and other participants in the proceedings. The intervention law was then also amended when we released measures and allowed for the gradual and at the same time the widest possible functioning of the judiciary, and the law ceased with the end of the official epidemic. The proposed amendment, which is now under consideration and has been prepared in the experience described, provides a legal basis for a rapid response and adjustment to the functioning of the courts in the event of an emergency. We therefore regulate the functioning of the judiciary in cases such as epidemics, natural disasters, fires, floods or other serious accidents, which, on a larger scale, limit the regular exercise of judicial authority. In the event of an emergency, the President of the Supreme Court will, by order, determine the scope of operations of all or individual courts. As a rule, the courts will operate in the way of summer operations, but it will be possible to provide for wider or closer operations and other specific measures, to the extent possible, to ensure the regular exercise of judicial authority. The proposal also introduces amendments to Article 83 of the Law on Courts governing the operation of the Court in Chad from 15 July to 15 August. On the proposal of the Supreme Court, the operation of the courts at this time is thus extended. The business of urgent matters, which are tax-listed in the law, does not constitute a greater deviation from the current regime and the scope of business in urgent matters is widening. At that time, the courts will be able to decide and manage the claims subject to the consent of the parties and there will also be service, of course with the insurance company for the parties in the proceedings. This is that the procedural deadlines begin to run the next day after the end of the summer business. Let me stress that the proposed novelties, which we are considering today, remain unchanged for the duration of the summer business, which will take place from 15 July to 15 August, but, of course, the exception is only fixed for this year on the basis of a valid intervention law, to which we do not want to interfere with the proposed amendment. Since the courts will operate to a greater extent at this time than before, we are also changing terminology. We replace judicial holidays with a more appropriate term, which is summer business. In doing so, we would like to point out that the courts also work during the summer operations. Once again, as has been the case so far, a change in court procedure during summer operations protects all the rights of the parties in judicial proceedings. So many introductorys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Justice Committee as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Blaž Pavlin.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u4	President, thank you for your word. A nice greeting to the representatives of the Government and to all Members and Members of Parliament! At its 21st urgent meeting, the Committee on Justice considered the draft law amending the Law on the Courts, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. Seven. 2020, published on the website of the National Assembly. The Committee was informed in advance of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for State Regulations and the comments of the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia. In a supplementary explanation of the bill, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Zlatko Ratej, pointed out, among others, that the proposed amendments govern a different way of operating the courts during the summer period in the event of an emergency such as natural or other serious accidents and epidemics. Courts must also, in such circumstances, ensure, to the greatest extent possible, the regular exercise of judicial authority in order to ensure the safety and health of both the court and the parties to the proceedings, while protecting the rights of the parties to such proceedings. The Court will only be able to apply in urgent cases if both parties agree. The legal arrangements for the functioning of the courts at the time of the extraordinary event have proved to be necessary but insufficiently flexible in view of the different circumstances and intensity of the emergency. The solutions proposed thus give the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia the legal basis for the use of different levers in terms of the extent to which restrictions on the functioning of the courts are most appropriate at that time in order to ensure the smoothest and regular exercise of the judiciary. With regard to Article 2 of the draft law, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the proposed solution no longer provides for an indicative time-limit for the duration of specific measures at legal level and is only bound by the circumstances of the extraordinary event, which could also mean that these measures would be of a more lasting nature. In view of the consequences that measures may have after that time in particular on the exercise of judicial protection rights, it would be necessary to set a deadline for the duration of specific measures at legal level, with the possibility of their or the determination of different measures in view of any changes in the circumstances of the emergency, taking into account the principle of proportionality. With regard to Article 4, however, it stressed that the provisions of Article 67 of the Law on Intervention Measures for the Mitigation and Elimination of the Consequences of the COVID-19 Epidemic, which provides for an exemption from Article 83 of the Law on the Courts, should provide for the termination of validity. The solution, as proposed, is to establish an exemption from an exception to a provision which will no longer apply, which is legally inappropriate. State Councillor Bojan Kekec presented the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which supported the proposal of the law by a majority. In addition, he pointed out that in the debate at the Commission it was pointed out that the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia did not have the opportunity to prepare or comment on the draft law, since it had only been informed. The bill has a permanent impact on the field of judicial leave and is no longer just a temporary measure, so coordination with all stakeholders operating in judicial proceedings would be even more important. The discussion highlighted the views and comments submitted to the proposal by the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia. The opinion of the members of the Committee was that, in so important interventions to the judicial system, the applicant should also take the professional public into account and hold a broader debate. The Committee adopted the amendments of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to Article 2 below and voted on all articles in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. [[End of discussion warning sign]] the marriage together and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which is incorporated into the amendment, is prepared on the basis of the right paragraph 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Parliamentary Group New Slovenia-Christian Democrats, colleague Blaž Pavlin.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u6	Thanks again for saying that. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Courts amends the Rules of Procedure of the Courts in the event of extraordinary events and changes the manner in which the courts operate during the summer operations. Thus, the law brings the transformation of judicial holidays into the summer business of the courts. In today's regulations, judicial holidays mean that the courts perform only the main procedural acts at that time and only in the urgent cases laid down in the law. These are matters in which postponement or suspension of proceedings could result in worse consequences for life, health or property. Only in these urgent cases are the procedural deadlines running and the service is under way, but not in all other cases. According to the proposal for amendments to the law, the courts will operate to a limited extent at that time, but not only on urgent matters, but also on matters which are not necessary. The courts will be able to decide on these matters, but restrictions on the tendering will apply. The court will only call for an action if all parties agree to do so. This protects the rights of the parties if they plan a longer absence during this period. It will also be possible for customers to be served during summer operations in urgent cases, but the deadlines will begin to run first to the end of summer operations, thus ensuring the protection of the rights of the parties in these proceedings. The new set of urgent matters is re-adding procedures for the execution of prison sentences and illegal matters under the law governing the prevention of domestic violence. After the law in force at the time of the emergency, this is a natural disaster, another major accident or epidemic, the courts are operating as at the time of the trial, it is said that they are performing only urgent matters. When an individual court is no longer able to cooperate in a smooth manner with the President of the Supreme Court on a proposal from the Minister of Justice, measures such as the allocation of judges, the relocation of judges in cooperation with the Council of Justice and so forth. On a proposal from the Minister, the President of the Supreme Court shall determine by order that the state of emergency has arisen. The applicant notes that the epidemic regime has proved to be insufficiently flexible in view of the rapid change in circumstances. The law does not provide for the possibility for courts to solve non-emergency cases according to the level of impact. It was therefore necessary to adopt an intervention law which allowed for a greater scope of operation of the courts and the powers of the President of the Supreme Court. Following the amendment, the courts will normally operate in the manner envisaged for summer operations during extraordinary events and will decide on this by order, by order of the President of the Supreme Court, which courts operate according to the rules of summer operations and other special circumstances determining the manner in which the courts operate. The President of the Supreme Court may also provide that certain cases which are identified by law as necessary and are not considered necessary or to determine the scope of business and that all or some of the non-essential matters are to be dealt with to an unlimited extent. The proposal for a law, the operation of courts during summer holidays and in times of exceptional circumstances in comparison with the current regulation is more flexible. In the event of a recurrence of the epidemic, there will therefore be no need to amend or adopt intervention law in order to adapt the work of the courts to changing situations. The new summer regime also allows certain matters to move forward at that time, and there is no need for all matters not necessarily to stop for a month. Members of New Slovenia will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek. Mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending the Law on Courts governs the determination of the scope of the summer operations of the courts and the functioning of the courts in the event of an emergency. In the current arrangements, judicial holidays are fixed between 15 July and 15 August. At that time, the courts shall carry out procedural acts only in urgent cases, as laid down in Article 83 of the Law. In these cases only, procedural deadlines in other cases are ongoing, nor are judicial writings being served in non-emergency cases. The government has drawn up a proposal for a law due to a lack of government regulation which was demonstrated in the wake of the outbreak of the COVID-19 epidemic. The Court is not currently scheduled to operate in non-emergency cases, even if the situation in the courts allows this. The proposed amendments will provide a legal basis for a rapid adjustment of the conduct of the courts in the event of an emergency which is not currently in place. The Novela foresees that the courts will also be able to operate in cases which are not defined as necessary. For this reason, it is also replaced by the term summer operations of the courts. Among other things, a set of matters which are defined as urgent shall be updated. Procedures concerning the enforcement of criminal sanctions and unfair cases under the law governing the prevention of domestic violence shall be added. The law in the SAB Group does not in itself seem to be problematic. We see a bigger problem in the process by which it is accepted. In the National Assembly, we have adopted emergency laws to mitigate the consequences of the outbreak, which is understandable, as it was necessary to act quickly. This proposal is no longer a temporary measure adopted by intervention laws, but a permanent intervention in the field of judicial holidays. Therefore, we believe that the adoption of law by emergency procedure in this place is inappropriate and unnecessary. The Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia also pointed out the fact that the proposal for a law had only been made for information and had no opportunity to comment on it. In the SAB Group, we advocate the practice of coordinating legislative proposals with all stakeholders and experts, particularly in the case of more important laws. Only then will we be able to accept good and constructive suggestions in this house. In the SAB Group, we will not oppose the Government's proposal, but we appeal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to use emergency procedures in the future for the adoption of laws only exceptionally and when really necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. My friend Yuri Nice.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In times of emergency, general public life usually stops slightly and, as a rule, adapts very quickly to the new situation. This is also, of course, characteristic for the business of operators, whether it is companies or entities that provide public services. For the rule of law, there is an urgent need for the smooth and effective functioning of the judiciary, i.e. the courts. In order to do so and, of course, to protect the rights of the parties to the proceedings at the same time, it is necessary to respond quickly to further circumstances. The latter allows only an appropriate organisation of the work of the courts, which must be sufficiently flexible and at the same time transparent enough to implement the rule of law in any case. We also face judicial backlogs in perfectly normal living conditions, and it is therefore understandable that there is a slight increase in the number of pending cases in this year, given last year's same period. Nor is it so important to raise this number as to conclude that the applicable judicial legislation governing the conduct of the courts, which already determines the manner in which the courts operate in the event of exceptional and unforeseeable events, is too flexible, which could result in difficulties in the implementation of judicial cases. On the basis of a number of lessons learned from the epidemic, the competent ministry has prepared amendments to the Law on Courts which provide a legal basis for a rapid response and adaptation of the courts to different circumstances and also to the intensity of an emergency. The President of the Supreme Court will be able to adapt the work of the courts to the circumstances in question in a manner similar to that previously established by order to determine the scope of operations of all or individual courts. As a rule, the courts will operate in a semi-annual manner, which will also determine the wider or closer functioning of an individual court and will be able to establish other specific measures all with a view to ensuring, to the greatest extent possible, the regular implementation of the judiciary. The possibility of moving cases to other courts under real and local jurisdiction is understood as a measure which is potential for increased emergency intensity, when otherwise the competent court is not able to operate. If the operation of all courts and the exercise of the rights of the parties were prevented, an even more extreme measure, namely the retention of deadlines, would be taken into account. All measures to be decided will, of course, be limited in time in order to verify the eligibility of certain measures at monthly level. A public consultation and thus transparency of the other part shall be ensured by publication in the Official Journal. Before that, a key preliminary briefing by the Minister of Justice is that of the Minister of Justice. The extreme case of complete inability to operate courts is determined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, not voluntarily, but at the proposal of the President of the Supreme Court. With regard to summer operations, as will now be the subject of current judicial holidays, and which last from 15 July to 15 August, the possibilities for the functioning of the courts are expanding. Only business in urgent matters listed in the law does not change significantly. However, the scope of business in urgent matters is widening. The courts will be able to determine and carry out complaints, with the consent of both parties to be obtained. The proposal for a new regime adds an exception to the duration of court holidays or after a new summer operation for this year, the last of this year’s two-week limits, from 1 to 15 August. In the Desus Group, we consider the proposed amendments to be prudent and, of course, necessary, so we will support the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Dean Kaloh.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u12	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear representatives of the Ministry! Also welcomed are fellow Members! At its 25th regular meeting on 8 July 2020, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia set out the text of the proposal for a law amending the Law on Courts, which we are considering under urgent procedure. In the event of the SARS COV-2 epidemic, according to COVID-19, the legal arrangements for the functioning of the courts at the time of the emergency proved to be necessary but insufficiently flexible in view of the different circumstances and intensity of the emergency. The purpose of the amendment is to provide an appropriate legal basis for adapting the functioning of the courts in the event of an emergency and gradually to take measures relating to all or only individual courts. With the amendment of the law, a more flexible regime is proposed to enable the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia to use different levers regarding the extent to which restrictions on the functioning of the courts are most appropriate at that time in order to ensure the smoothest and regular exercise of the judiciary, in the light of the circumstances of the emergency caused by the Coronavirus epidemic causing the disease COVID-19. The aim of the change in the functioning of the courts during the summer season is to enable the judicial authority to exercise as regularly as possible during the summer. Following the proposed amendment, the courts will also decide between 15 July and 15 August in urgent cases in which the procedural deadlines are ongoing. However, the second main objective is to determine the scope of the proceedings in the event of an emergency. With regard to other cases which are not necessary, the courts will be able to decide in these cases the procedural deadlines will not run. The courts will only be able to apply in urgent cases if both parties agree. The service will be possible at the beginning of the trial period and the party will be informed in writing. The term “judgmental holiday” is replaced by a more appropriate term “summer business of the courts”, since the court will operate more on a limited scale than under the applicable legislation. The solutions brought by this proposal for a law amending the Law on Courts are still referred to as follows. As necessary, they also define unfair cases under the law governing the prevention of domestic violence, the removal of mechanical protests and mechanical actions from urgent cases, the renaming of cases of forced settlement and bankruptcy in cases of insolvency and forced termination. The Committee on Justice voted on the coalition amendment, which was drawn up on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which warned that it was necessary to provide for a time-bound definition of the duration of specific measures at legal level. The President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia will have to verify monthly the eligibility of the measures laid down by the order. The proposed amendment respects the principle of proportionality of the measures taken to restrict the functioning of the courts while ensuring the exercise of the right to judicial protection provided for in Article 23 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will be the subject of a bill amending the Law on Courts, which we are considering following an urgent procedure, of course, it supports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, a colleague of Tina Heferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u14	Thank you, President, for your word. Another extraordinary session and another amendment to the law, which is adopted by emergency procedure. In the LMŠ Group, we would like to draw attention in particular to the practice which is apparently being established on a regular basis in this Government, namely that laws are adopted in accordance with the urgent legislative procedure, without in fact having to exist for business reasons. This way, of course, does not provide for normal legislative standards which, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, are subject to the adoption or amendment of laws. In order to justify the amendment of the Law on Courts, the necessary legislative procedure should, in accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure, regulate the legal matter relating to the interests of the security or defence of the State, to remedy the consequences of natural disasters or to the content in order to avoid the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State. The Law on Courts does not regulate any of this, but the government does talk about preventing unwanted consequences from being corrected by this law. I don't mean to be too harsh, but for us, this whole thing might be a little funny. Amendments to the law, as stated, refer to the functioning of courts during judicial holidays and do not really solve any irreparable consequences. What do we mean by that? Only that, in our view, more institutions of emergency legislative procedure have been misused or overused. The contents of the novel are almost secondary, although this should not be the case. However, if I say anything else about the content, in the light of the urgency procedure, even this content, as has already been said, becomes somewhat absurd, because the courts could normally operate during this year's trial holidays under the Law on Intervention Measures for the Mitigation and Elimination of the Consequences of the Epidemic. So, apart from the fact that the novel does not meet the conditions for an emergency procedure, this law does not really rush so fast. As a result of these additional 15 days, the courts will not substantially reduce the judicial backlogs that occurred during the epidemic. In addition to all of this, it is now another law that excludes and ignores the professional public or all other stakeholders when adopting it. Let me stress here, the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia has sent out a clear position to oppose any change in the regime of judicial holidays. The government obviously disregards or ignores such warnings or opinions, or perhaps the written opinion of the Office of the Attorney-General in the Government is still waiting in a closed envelope, who knows. In the LMŠ Group, we condemn this attitude of the Government, and we express once again our amazement at our former coalition partners SMC and DeSUS, who sometimes tolerate this attitude of the Government more quietly and sometimes more loudly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a colleague of Predrag Baković.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u16	Mr. President, thank you so much for your words. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues. I cannot help but point out from the outset that it has recently developed some common practice for the Government to impose laws on a rapid and ad hoc urgency. In this Government, it appears that a time of emergency is an appropriate opportunity for the preparation of legislation, as far as possible, for the professional or other public to be excluded. Thus, in this paper, the Chamber of Counsel has pointed out that it has not been included in the process of adopting this amendment and that it is at least as important legislation as is expected from the Government to have an open debate between all representatives of the judiciary. I'm sorry that this has already become a normal and continuous way of operating this government. The proposed amendment thus brings about a change in the conduct of the courts between 15 July and 15 August and changes the institute of judicial holidays as we now know it. While we do not object to the change in the term of judicial leave in terms of the summer operation of the courts as envisaged by the novels, courts are also working and are not on vacation at this time. However, the proposal also extends the functioning of the courts at this time, since the courts will be able to decide and call on new courts under certain conditions in cases other than those of urgency. In cases of urgency, the courts will be able to call for a plea if the consent of both parties or all parties is given. The Chamber of Lawyers has indicated that this could put pressure on the party to give such consent, as otherwise they will be waiting for a hearing on the proposal. They believe that the effectiveness of the judiciary could be enhanced by other measures such as the introduction of videoconferencing and electronic entries. We also believe that the use of digital services to facilitate the functioning of the courts will be needed in the judiciary as a traditional one and in some way the industry will need to increase the use of digital services to facilitate the functioning of the courts and that it will be faster and more flexible. However, the amendment also provides for adjustments to the functioning of the courts in the event of extraordinary events such as an epidemic or a natural disaster. In the event of an emergency, the President of the Supreme Court, by order, will determine the scope of the proceedings and the necessary measures to ensure that the judicial branch is carried out as regularly as possible. And if I conclude, the judicial branch of power is an independent, separate and independent branch of power. It seems to me that we must repeat this in particular over and over again in recent times, particularly because of the statements made by certain politicians, ministers and also the President of the Government. [[Incomprehensible]] It is problematic and inappropriate for the President of the Government to publicly account and interfere with the professional and professional work of independent and independent judicial authorities, not only to undermine the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia in the international space, but to undermine trust among citizens in the judicial system and to create the impression that in our national independent bodies, they are not in fact independent, but to act unprofessionally and impartially, and that we can be rightly concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The text is given by the SMC Group of Members, a colleague of Matey Udovč.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u18	Your Honor! During the outbreak of communicable disease, COVID-19 was hampered by the functioning and regular implementation of the judiciary, and the National Assembly adopted the Interim Measures Act on Judicial, Administrative and Other Public Legal Matters in March this year to control the spread of communicable disease COVID-19. However, a new law was adopted in April this year, which provides for the provision of work to the courts where this was possible in view of restrictive measures. In fact, the courts started normal business with 1. 6. 2020, after the government is 21. 5. 2020, adopted a decision to determine the termination of the grounds for provisional measures in respect of judicial, administrative and other public law matters for the control of the spread of communicable disease COVID-19. Thus, the provisions of the said Interim Measures Act also ceased to apply. The deterioration of the epidemiological picture, both at home and in the world, requires us to introduce provisional measures under this intervention law into the provisions of Article 83a of the Courts Act. This will allow the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia to limit the operation of the courts in the event of extraordinary events concerning measures to protect the health and life of the parties and other participants in judicial proceedings. Since the situation in this area is extremely unpredictable, it is most reasonable to regulate matters systematically by allowing the President of the Supreme Court to continue to issue orders on the specific measures referred to in Article 83 of the Law on the Courts. In doing so, we cannot agree with the findings of some that urgent procedures are too often used and that they are not justified. In this case, the law is more than justifiable. The amendment to Article 83 does not constitute any novelty for the rule of law, but it is the measures that the National Assembly discussed and decided on this year in March and April. In fact, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia proposed a legal solution. It is true, however, that the law also interferes with the provisions on judicial holidays. As you know, for this year we have reduced the time of court holidays from August 1st to August 15th. The term “court holiday” replaces this amendment with the term “summer business”, since the court will no longer operate to such a limited extent as under the applicable legislation. In the SMC Group, we are aware that this amendment is opposed by the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia, which was raised in the debate on the parental committee, so we must note that this is not a matter of professional nature, but of organizational nature. It is a question of whether lawyers will be able to have the so-called collective leave they have so far. Let us stress that by allowing the courts a greater scope of annual business than before, we will not intervene in the rights of lawyers to use their annual leave, nor in the rights of customers to a fair trial, but in particular in the interests of the parties who wish to judge their cases as soon as possible. In addition, the proposed solutions provide that the courts will only be able to tender a claim in non-emergency cases if both parties agree. As you know, this year's trial vacation was reduced precisely because of the judicial backlog of the COVID-19 epidemic. It follows from the Supreme Court's data that at the end of May, 140,015 cases were pending, representing 5.2% more pending cases than in the comparable period in 2019. With the change of judicial holidays to the summer range of operations, we will allow the courts to cope more easily with judicial backlogs in the future. This is also in the interest of the parties in the courts. And that is what this is about, reducing judicial backlogs and shorter court proceedings that are in the interest of the parties, not in the interests of lawyers. Therefore, the dilemma of listening to someone or of what purpose and purpose are more justified in essence is not a dilemma at all. On the basis of the above arguments, we will support the proposal of the Law in the Group of the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members, because no amendments were tabled for the second reading of the amended legislation. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, within 10 minutes of the end of agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to one. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Trade Act under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 8 Members and Members with the first-signed Luke Mesec. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer to colleague Luke Mesco.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! We're ahead of the second reading of the closing of trade on Sundays. As we have repeatedly pointed out, after 17 years we have applied the will of the people expressed in the 2003 referendum. All those who share skepticism, if the will of the people is still the same after 17 years, you can look at surveys in recent years that show that over the years support for closing trade has increased on Sundays. In 2018, the last aid measure was as high as 87%. Therefore, the law and the closure of trade in general enjoys the practical plebiscite support of the public, while at the same time enjoying almost plebiscite support of workers regardless of whether the public opinion or opinions of workers have been measured by trade unions or their employers in recent months prior to the adoption of the law, it has proved similar that the vast majority of workers, according to union estimates, have been 95 %, despite the possibility of losing allowances for Sunday's work, and this solution supports and, last but not least, those professions that have to work on Sundays, I am talking mainly about firefighters, policemen, health workers and so on, are with their trade centres the law and solutions that you have before you today unanimously supported, their views have also been expressed. The opening of trade on Sundays is contrary to the will of the people, contrary to the will of the employees and, in fact, only to the few. Employees are not in the interest as you could have heard in their stories yesterday, which means that some are also working after 12 days of relief, that they are often burned to death because of their hard work, that there are injuries, hospital absences and not least to disability and early disability. They miss themselves, their family, their friends. And this is the cost they bear even though their wages are often minimal, or up to the minimum wage for traders and traders, even a surcharge is paid because their basic salary is below the minimum. In doing so, the law is not even in the interest of most traders. The managers of Spara, Mercator and others often said that shops in a place were open only because they were also open to competition. Short selling on Sundays was the worst. The visit was the worst. However, traders only had open trades so that their customers would not go to the competition that had open trade. And this competitive pressure has forced all of us to have virtually every trade in Slovenia on Sundays open. To whom does the law interest? On the one hand, there must be shopping centers, which from many Slovenian places drank their lives out of city centres and people gather there rather than in the city or elsewhere. Here we have to ask ourselves whether it is also a social cost, whether it is not the great merchants in this way in the city centres that have destroyed the business of a small entrepreneur, a craftsman, a merchant, and whether it would not make sense for us to help them, at least by closing on Sundays, to revitalize the city centres, which is what many Slovenian municipalities are working towards, and thus to gain these opportunities back. On the other hand, we have small merchants, where we understand in Levica, as proponents and others, that in tourist centres, in towns, in rural areas, a variety of entrepreneurs who have little trade live off this work and that their income is often theirs if they sell souvenirs or something similar to sell on Sundays. This is why we have set an exception here that stores of up to 200 m2 can be opened, provided that they do not work there on Sundays, but that they work by their legal representative or entrepreneur himself. In short, not to exploit the work of others, but to use their work. As it is said, after 17 years, we are solving the Gordium knot of interests of unclear definition of exceptions and potential constitutional disputes. We have found a solution that is constitutionally consistent, which solves the problem, on the one hand, of workers who will be given work on Sundays and on the other hand of entrepreneurs who will be able to work on Sundays if they want to.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branislav Rajic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. At its 23rd urgent meeting yesterday, the Economic Committee considered the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Trade Act as its parent working body, the second consideration submitted by the Group of Members and Members with the first signed Luke Mesec. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the SAB Group, which subsequently withdrew the amendment, the SNS Group of Members to Articles 1 and 3, the SNS Group to the title of Chapter Final provision, the Left Party, LMŠ, SD, SAB and the Member of the Polnar to Article 1, the SMC Group and SDS to Article 1, to the title of Chapter Final provision and Article 3. Following an introductory explanation by the drafter of the law, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented a written opinion in which she made some comments on the amendment of the SMC and SDS groups of Members and the amendment of the SNS Group of Members. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology presented the Government's written opinion and stressed that the Government does not support the proposed law, as it believes that the current economic situation is not suitable for the adoption of the proposed solutions due to the consequences of the epidemic. In particular, the government does not support them due to the possible negative impact on economic activity and employment and stresses the need to maintain jobs and restart the Slovenian economy. In addition, the invited participant in the role of the President of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and in the role of the representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia presented the reasons why the Commission of the State Council and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia do not support the proposed law. In doing so, it stressed that the proposed solutions would lead to a fall in income and a reduction in economic activity and a reduction in wages and employment in trade activities. Representatives and representatives of trade unions expressed support for the bill. In doing so, they pointed out the problem of inappropriate working conditions, low pay for work performed and the issue of giving up time for rest, private life and family due to working hours on Sundays and working days off. In the debate, the proposaler and some discussers presented the reasons why they support the proposal of the law and the efforts of trade unions to improve the situation of workers. They expressed concern about working conditions in trade activities, the evaluation of the part of traders and traders and the restriction and denial of workers' right to rest. They highlighted the health risks of workers and stressed the importance of free time to improve health, family and social life and the general satisfaction of people. The panellists also stressed that the bill was implementing the will of the electorate, who, at the referendum on the opening times of trade, had already been passed on for the most part. Some discussers felt that the proposed changes in the business time of the shops were taking account of the current economic situation due to the epidemic and that the reference to the referendum decision was misleading, since the referendum included the opening of trade in foodstuffs 10 weeks a year. The fear was expressed that the proposed solutions would have a negative impact on the fall in the revenues of trade activities and on the deterioration of the labour market situation, which could result in a reduction in wages and the dismissal of employees. It was also suggested that social dialogue should be held before deciding to change opening time and that the opinion on the bill should also be given by the Economic and Social Council. The debate also highlighted the need to adopt a compromise solution between employers and employees and to oppose extreme solutions. Individual parliamentary groups presented in the debate the amendments tabled by adopting individual provisions of the bill in different ways and to a different extents, and introducing individual exceptions. The Committee addressed all the amendments and voted on the articles of the bill together and adopted them. When it comes to amendments, amendments to the Parliamentary Groups of the Left, the LMŠ, the SD, the SAB and the Member of the Polnar to Article 1 were adopted, the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 1 and Article 3 was not adopted, nor was the amendment of the SMC, SDS to Article 1, Article 3, and the title of the chapter adopted. The Committee voted on the bill together, all the articles together and adopted them. In the light of the text adopted, a supplementary draft law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report, is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u23	Thank you very much. For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Simon Zajc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a amendment to the Trade Act, submitted by the group of Members and Members with the first signed Luke Mesec for consideration by the National Assembly on 12 May 2020, that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, in particular due to the consequences of the proposed closure for economic operators in the field of trade and other related activities and consequently for their employees. The economic situation that is forecast for the coming months mainly requires serious reflection on how to preserve jobs and how to encourage new ones. At this point, therefore, it is our assessment that it is crucial to ensure the recovery of the economy. We are aware that the proposal for a law responds to the understandable and justified calls made by trade employees belonging to those groups that were most exposed at the time of the epidemic, but it is important whether the Trade Act, which regulates the operating time of trade, and also in view of the experience with similar legal proposals for closing shops on Sundays, is an appropriate place to address the problems of working time employed in trade activities. The first closure attempt was sold on Sundays 2004 where the legislator arranged working time in accordance with the expressed will of the people at the referendum, concluded with an assessment of the Law at the Constitutional Court, the delayed implementation of the law and the decision of the court that the legislator had determined the area of shops at specific locations, which amounted to 80 square metres in arbitration, which was inconsistent with the principles of the rule of law. The new Trade Act was then adopted, and in the same year unions and employers reached an agreement on working time arrangements. The sale space of shops, which could be used as an exception on Sundays and by law for certain work days, is limited to 200 square metres in the current novelty proposal, with the applicant referring to an analysis by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. In this analysis, the Ministry found in 2005 that on average 83.8% of stores in Slovenia are less than 200 sqm. Yesterday, the Committee discussed that the sales area in Slovenia had increased by 35% since 2008, so it would be necessary to carry out a new analysis after our assessment and to take account of the sales area in the proposed novel. The next attempt to close the stores on Sundays and on days off was in 2017 followed by a new agreement between the social partners in the form of a current collective agreement on trade activities that is still in force until the end of 2022. This Sunday’s trade is limited to a maximum of 20 weeks a year, and on holidays, workers are free, except for exceptions. The collective contract also lays down categories of workers to whom traders may not impose duties on Sundays and holidays. With the amendments adopted yesterday by the Committee on the Economy, a very narrow set of exceptions included the sale of gas services, airports, rail and bus stations and hospitals to shops at border crossings, the sale of ports for public transport and the sale of which, on Sundays and with the law of certain parts of the free days in their shops, is carried out exclusively by a person who, as an independent entrepreneur, is an operator of a commercial activity or its benefit or legal representative or the benefit of a legal person engaged in a commercial activity. We believe that despite the addition, the problem remains of micro and small businesses and also of individual entrepreneurs, since the over-the-counter solution only partially solves the problem of family businesses, not of those entities in full. While the proposal for a solution provides an opportunity for individual entrepreneurs and companies to allocate benefits in order to provide sufficient staff and to be able to have all the sales in their possession. In doing so, it should be noted that the purpose of the procurator is to present and represent the company outside. The Prosecutor's Office apologises for all legal acts falling within the company's legal capacity, except for the removal and burden of real estate, but companies will only be able to provide sufficient personnel to keep all sales in their possession open. In view of all the above, the Government considers that social dialogue is still the most appropriate way to find new solutions that will be good for both workers and the Slovenian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Since the Assembly held a general debate at its 17th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a discussion on the articles, the title of the chapter and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Seven. 2020. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the two amendments of the SMC Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. I'm going through the list. List, check-in is underway. The first one has the word of his colleague Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u26	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The amendments to the Trade Act that we are considering and adopting today are a form of civilisation intervention in part of the Economic Council, which is thoroughly contaminated by shameless predatory and senseless mistreatment of people. Work must be allowed on Sundays. Trade centres have become part of the social infrastructure and people in it spend a good part of their lives. But shopkeepers must be adequately paid to work on Sundays, and they must be able not to work every Sunday. A satisfied seller attracts a satisfied buyer who creates traffic in trade. This is fiction, and so is work and fraud. The problem is that work for different people is a radically diverse experience, for many, and this is a general situation that is subordinate to the most basic requirements of life, people need to work, even suffer to allow for survival and various goods. Our work provides us with life’s satisfaction, in contrast with the darker discomfort or worse. Although often repeatedly tiringly mindless challenges, however, are inevitable for obtaining vital things and individual pleasures of life. It also means a certain reputation in society. However, life’s pleasures come after the end of the working and working week. It is then and only then that it is possible to get out of the state of tiredness, boredom, discipline in the workplace or authority of managers. We often say that our work is to our delight, and this claim is largely attributed to the feelings of others. A good worker is engaged in worship, worship largely comes from those who have escaped similar efforts and are safe from physical work. That's a contradiction. The word work also includes those for whom work is tiring, boring, and uncomfortable and for whom it is pure satisfaction. Superiority and commanding others can arouse a satisfying sense of self - importance in an individual. At the same time, the work describes what is subordinated and what is responsible for prestige, payment, and satisfaction. It's obvious that we have the same word for both circumstances. But that's not all. Those who enjoy the most at work and need to be stressed are usually the best paid. This is accepted. Poor wages are for those with recurrent boring pain pressure. Those who need the least compensation for their efforts who can best survive without it have the highest wages. Salaries or detailed wages, bonuses and shares are the most generous at the top. In fact, this does not raise any unwanted comments. Such an opinion is fully accepted. Consumer society has, in the past 20 years, metastasized in the everyday lives of citizens in a often barely perceived way, as something that is self-explanatory and which has no point in asking earlier. Today, it is not enough for the consumer to come to the store in an old-fashioned way and buy what he needs, but people are systematically and irritably encouraged to close their ties to individual trading chains, to devote as much time as possible to thinking about shopping, to wanting products that they cannot afford, to make them feel bad. But the only way to get rid of bad feelings is to buy something. The vicious circle is thus effectively established and the human being has transformed into a consumer. Critical analyses on what life means in modern consumer society have been carried out in Slovenia. However, without mentioning the valuable impact, the openings of various shopping centres in Slovenia continue to be seen as a first-class social event, as a sign of progress and as a sign of an approach to the West. Ladies and gentlemen, many people believe that we have capitalism in Slovenia. They say more cautiously that we have a market system and free entrepreneurship. Article 74 of the Constitution states "economic initiative is free". The law lays down the conditions for setting up economic organisations. Economic activity must not be carried out in contravention of public benefit. Acts of unfair competition and acts which, contrary to the law, restrict competition are prohibited. Nonsense! I don't think so. In Slovenia, the system is only like capitalism. People are employees and employers, labour and capital owners exploited and exploiters, but the external image is not enough to show full reality. Nowhere, except in textbooks, capitalism does not work as described in its model simplifications. Capitalism, created without the assumption of a regulated society in terms of fundamental integrity, the rule of law and social solidarity, must only acquire such values if it is to remain comparable on a global scale. It's not like that with us. Capitalism cannot be based on unlimited greed. Robbery greed creates bandits, not entrepreneurs. For us individuals, market rules and any other competition are adapted. Individuals are above the law. It's not that we don't know that, but that we don't see any progress. The only thing clearer from year to year is the gap between words and actions between laws and reality. There is no market competition and entrepreneurship freedom in our country. For example, the rehabilitation of banks has shown the most drastic existence of a parallel economic system, parallel administration and behind-the-clock policy. A system in which the contract is not respected and the standards and limitations of the debt are ignored. Profit is a private matter. Debt is a common thing. In the past, Slovenian trade has been very large and taught to discuss the continuous expansion of shopping centres and how much more sales per capita it makes sense to have. Nevertheless, new shops opened up and distributed among themselves. Two major system traders in the country also ended up in serious trouble because of the rapid expansion of their sales network at a high level of indebtedness. Both cases prove that their business model for the distribution of the sales network was completely wrong and completely wrong. But because of their size, this has not only become a problem for the individual trader, but more for the country and all the stakeholders involved. Then it happened; rather than the risk of closing off non-profit trades, key decision makers devoted themselves to financial restructuring of businesses. In other words, with unimaginable survival over employees. The system is not capitalism, even though we call it free market competition and even though we behave with membership in the European Union. The silent agreement with the ceremony and the outside glare only conceals the real legalisation of the banditry. That's pathetic, and that's pathetic. A smaller but in no way insignificant part of this misery will be the proposal that is being addressed today. With a proposal in its original form without amendments submitted. And that is why I think that the original proposal needs to be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The next one has the word of a colleague, Edward Paulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, chairman. Perhaps I should just begin by explaining what is the basis of the proposed law. In accordance with the principles of the European Social Charter, employees in trade are entitled to weekly rest per day, which is traditionally recognised as a day of rest. And in our society this day represents a Sunday, and that is what today's law stipulates. The closure of trade is supported by both the public and the unions and the employees. Yesterday, we were able to hear the support of virtually all trade unions on the Committee on the Economy, and we also heard shocking statements from employees or representatives of trade employees. To mention that, in 2019, labour inspectors in commercial activities detected a number of infringements with regard to working time and the provision of rest and rest during work. The most worrying information is that employers require workers to register their arrival at work only at the actual beginning of work or when they leave work when they are done with an efficient job, but no time has been taken into account for preparing for work such as cleaning the work surfaces of preparation for work, filling the shelves and so on. Now there was something about forgiveness, and there was a lot of talk in the past on the committee. Taking into account the violations of the labour inspection in commercial activities, if we know that a huge number of overtime is being done, if we know that a large number of agency workers and students are employed, if we know that the trade activity is highly profitable and has created a billion Euros of ebyss, I am sure that forgiveness is the power to avoid. The Constitutional Court, according to his opinion, refers to the fact that the legal regulation of Sunday's trading time is not contrary to Article 74 of the Constitution. The legislator may restrict the working time of trade for reasons of public benefit, such as protection of life, human health, consumer and employee protection and the like. The decision of the Constitutional Court also recalls the need to take into account the exceptions to the provision of emergency life products and supplies at specific locations. It's settled in the law. Sales on petrol services, airports, rail and bus stations, hospitals, border crossings, shipping terminals will be open, there is also an exception for other sales areas up to 200 square metres, in so far as works are carried out by the trader, procurator or business authority. However, what is crucial is that the law also aims to ensure that Sunday's operation does not affect the interests and rights of workers, so that workers are free to work. From the outset, the debate on the proposal for a novelty has been sufficiently time-consuming to date so that the Chamber of Commerce, as stronger partners in these negotiations, can reach an agreement and this agreement has not yet been reached. Now, today's amendment to the Modern Centre Party, as I read it, makes an exception for students and pensioners, creating an unanimity before the law. If I make the case, a 22-year-old student can't work a 22-year-old unemployed person. Students are, as we know, a cheaper labour force, which would add to the clarionity, which I think would be a big problem in our society because it creates uncertainty and economic independence among young people. And it is precisely so that we do not distinguish work on Sundays on the basis of existing legal bases that is said to be temporary, occasional, regular work, personal supplementary work has been excluded, that we do not create discrimination or that we do not favour any social group. Yesterday, the committee mentioned that the owner of a trade that does not have family members would not be able to work alone. But he can always give the procurator to a person who trusts him and who can then help him in accordance with the law. The amendment breaks the whole concept of the law and opens the possible unconstitutionality of the law, so I will not support the amendment. However, I will support the basic proposed law with the amendment adopted yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is "Victory" by the Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u30	Thank you very much. We have not heard such nonsense as here in support of this law, nor has it been heard in the National Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia. It is evident here that those who have invested this were intended to bring down the economic system of Slovenia by drop. One of these drops is the ban on Sundays and closing down shops on Sundays. This will bring terrible harm to the country of Slovenia, because not only will money not run into the state treasury, people will be unemployed, many will lose their jobs. Moreover, it is important to know that traders are happy to work on Sundays because they earn more. I find it foolish when unions say it's necessary to ban work on Sundays. Why don't trade unions settle this when it comes to labour violations? Why are the unions quiet then and they don't care? I wonder why unions don't pay better for shop workers. Why? Because they don't care. They have a full ass, they get a lot of pay, and they don't give a fuck about people and the country. These are our unions. In the country, we have decided on a free decision on work and the economic initiative is free under the Constitution. I think it's best to let the merchants decide for themselves who's gonna have it open, who's gonna have it closed. The idea was also that we would have an exception, if not the owner of the trade should work on Sundays in the shop. Yeah, what difference does it make? The store will be open. And now he won't be allowed to make any money, but the owner will have to work. What kind of asshole remembered that? It is said that the 2004 referendum had already established that trade should be closed. Less than 28% of voters participated in this referendum, so that the referendum would not be valid under our circumstances. Of these, about 14% were in favour, which means 14% of voters in the Republic of Slovenia were in favour of closing trade. And now you want to impose this on the entire nation. It is important to know that many people have nowhere to go on Sunday and are happy to go on a trip to the mall, sit down, drink coffee, chat, watch. But you're gonna take that away from them, too? Then let Levica do her work on Sundays, share her junk and shovels, and let them go around working so they don't suffer in stores. Or if New Slovenia wants people to go to church on Sunday. Let him go to the church and then let him go to the mall. What's wrong with that? Why must this be destroyed, and why must people be told not to work? No, you're not going to work because we said you weren't going to work. Well, that's North Korea. That's North Korea. You're sounding about freedom, freedom of choice, and we can do something our own way. No, we'll ban it. I think anyone who just votes in favour of this law is voting for the destruction of their country. Some don't care because they think Bolsheviks will take over everything and the world communist class will prevail, as we once heard from that side over there. And then what happens? Now they're going to ban open shops. The next round will prohibit the opening of guest facilities. Fine. And what's gonna happen? Our nation is not as foolish as some in this House. But he'll find his holes. There will be more and more black work, more and more smuggling and more avoiding all that is laid down by normal laws. And one more thing. All those from Croatia, for example, go to shopping malls in Slovenia on Sunday because they have jobs on other days, so they come to the shopping center on Sunday and take a little trip around Slovenia. This is of benefit to the state. But you won't let that happen again. Yeah, what's gonna happen? Slovenians will go shopping in Hungary, Austria, Croatia, Italy. Fine! Then you sound like it's bad because we don't have any money in the Treasury. I take this as a diversion, as a diversion by those who propose this law and this diversion will be confirmed by those who vote for this law. Then write to yourself in the autumn what will happen and what will happen there around New Year's Eve. However, given that it is forbidden for public holidays to open trade, all Christmas purchases will be reduced by one third. Yes, fine! Italy will be wide open, Austria, Hungary, all of us will be closed. We can't go to the store. And here, damn it, don't you understand? I mean, because it's hard to understand, it's hard for a smart man to understand such a law, except it's obvious that you want to tear down the country, that you want to break the economic system in the country, and that you don't want to let those workers who work on Sundays get more money, are already better paid, and they're happy to work and they're teasing who's going to work on Sunday, of course to trade or not know, but I think they're lying, no, you're going to ban and then of course – What? - These women will be home, even less money. And what's she gonna do on Sunday? She's probably gonna go out into the woods somewhere, and she's gonna start digging some kind of hot tub, and she's gonna start planting some salad and some parsley so she can have her own salad because she can't buy it because she can't make it. That's your goal. This does not, of course, go to the detriment of those cyclists who circle around Parliament on Fridays. They've got a bunch of assholes who've been picked up and robbed, not all of them, they've got a bunch of delusions, they've got some dumb ass, and there's some of them who don't know what they're doing there. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u31	My friend Jelinczych, come on, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u32	But many are the ones who want to destroy this country. And one of the steps in bringing this country down is this law. And in this marriage you are trying to quietly step by step to bring everything together to collapse. And it's those who don't even know what happened in 1991 or who don't give a fuck what happened in 1991 or who may have even been against what happened in 1991. It's fucking sad. And when it comes to exceptions, where are the same vats for everyone? Yeah, that's not it. But it doesn't matter what it looks like. For some, it doesn't matter. In short, I don't know, but some people don't understand, some people don't want to understand, some people don't, some people don't, some people don't, some people don't, some people do. [[…]] This is my country, too. This is my only country and my only country. And we're going to vote against that. But you, who'll be in favor, write down what people will think of you in six months or one year from now. I hope they don't forget that. Once again, we are absolutely against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that, President. All of them have a nice greeting! Somehow not in the same approach or context as my respected predecessor had a debate I will also touch myself, but slightly with another point of view. For the introduction, although we have already heard from the first debater, I also allow myself to read Article 74 of the Constitution once again, because it is a fact that Members are somewhat of their own interpretation of this constitutional provision. And the first paragraph says "economic initiative is free". And the third paragraph says "the acts of unfair competition and acts which, contrary to the law, restrict competition" are prohibited. This means, if I come from Article 74 of the Constitution, that a free economic initiative is a constitutional value that has a very high weight and as such requires adequate constitutional legal protection. However, one of the foundations of the constitutional definition of the economic system, based on a free economic initiative or a free enterprise and a free economic initiative and free and fair competition, is the basis of each natural economic system. I believe that we must be aware of this by all the Members and Members of this National Assembly, and in particular the proponents of this law in today's debate on the Trade Act. And in this context, the following is very important: the free economic initiative also means the right to manage an economic operator, in which case trade activities in accordance with economic principles – and what this means – I certainly believe and conclude that everyone here is well aware of this. Now, a possible ban on economic activities, large or medium-sized traders, constitutes an intervention in a free economic initiative, respected applicants. It is very questionable to propose that the legislator conduct a certain economic activity to organisational or economic operators, in which case trade only allows certain legal organisational entities to operate in this case by small traders or by family trade in vitalities or as souvenir shops only, let us say, in tourist areas. I am personally firmly in the position that the full opening of all trades or service activities is what is exclusively their right and also the right to be left to them according to their own business judgement. And in all those, especially those who see this as an opportunity to earn their jobs, because with the Trade Act, it makes it impossible to work and earn all those who want it and when it is their existential or even economic activity. And here, unfortunately, we also have to face the following too few times; most traders admit that on Sundays they have more traffic and income than usual on any day of the week. When it comes to trade and trade activities and the proposals of the Left Group to close trade on Sundays, with the exception of certain exceptions, it is necessary to ask the following questions: why the opening of trade is different in trade activities and the other, which is very important, the distinction between large, medium and small traders. In this regard, I also immediately refer to Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which defines very clearly – equality before the law, and I also associate this with Article 74 of the Constitution, which I will repeat once again: the acts of unfair competition and acts which, contrary to the law, restrict competition are prohibited. And if I continue, trade is classified and falls under service activity. I believe that we do not differ here or that we do not have a different view of this classification. And why hotel, catering and similar services regarding employees by the proposed Trade Act do not have the same approach in this respect as regards working rights to regulate working hours and Sundays. All are service activities and employees are carriers not only of making profits, but also of their survival as well as of development, of course by offering their working individual services. And is my question why are you proposing to make a difference between employees within the service activity? I am of the view that, in the service activities of open-ended matters in the first place, they should be left entirely on the one hand to the owners as employers and, on the other hand, on behalf of employees through competent trade union associations and jointly within the framework of the Economic and Social Council and agreement at the level of the general collective agreement, as well as in particular the sectoral collective agreements, are mutually agreed and agree on both working time and all the rights and duties of employees. It is not, however, that in the service activity, through the political interest of political parties, the law restricts the various traders in this case by prescribing the right of employees. Will the adoption of this law not, as a result, reduce the need for employment in trade or trade activities in order not to talk about reducing their income? If this is to be demonstrated in the following way, and the proponents of this law, I firmly believe that you must accept the fact that there is a possible reduction, and in this context, when I have mentioned the Constitution several times, it is also necessary to look at Article 66 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of the protection of work. Specifically, the country is creating an opportunity for employment and employment. Proposers of amendments to the Trade Act and all those who support this change must be aware of and accept our responsibility if, when this law is enforced, large, medium-sized traders who are diversified in relation to the activity start gradually to forgive their employees, not because of the closing of work on Sunday, but because of the decline or better, the reduction in the sales of goods and services in their shops or shopping centres as a result of the legal restriction already cited in Article 74 of the Constitution, a free economic initiative. The proposed Parliamentary Group Levica has always advocated the position on the social security of workers and all of them. In particular, social transfers. But at the same time with such a proposal of the Trade Act, you are denying social security, the rights of workers. For this potentially by this law means reducing jobs and increasing unemployment. Personally, I think the opposite is true. We should just do it. And if I finish slowly. It means that policy should not interfere with a law that must effectively reduce the possibility of employment in commercial activities. And once again, at the same time, this law allows for unfair competition in the market for goods and services. The 2003 referendum is just a word on the basis of this law. You know today we are 2020 in the 17 years I firmly believe that in the open market goods and services as well as in the labour market have changed significantly. I refer only to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which is similarly written in my position and just read one piece that they wrote. The Legislative and Legal Service notes that the regime proposed by the left-wing group is stricter than the 2003 question raised. On the basis of the above, I cannot support this proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u35	Thank you. The speaker has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u36	Thank you for your word and good bye! Now, as expected, opponents of this law have a mouthful of freedom of expression, a free economic initiative, a constitutional provision. Look, working in stores on Sundays isn't free. Workers don't decide to work on Sundays, but they're forced to. And even when the job is rejected, some kind of hospital happens because of burnout, exhaustion, injuries and so on, they call and have to come to work. And here I am asking the same questions as the workers and workers who sent their letters massily yesterday, their messages to the Committee on the Economy that discussed this law, are you the ones who are talking about freedom of work on Sundays when you were working alone on Sundays, not at your own will, have you ever been forced to work on Sundays? That's the question. And now I'm going to read you some freedom this freedom you're defending brings to the workers and to the workers. The first worker wrote it like that. "When you work Sunday you have nothing from this day on, you leave early in the morning, then you work like a fool all the time, you end up at 3:45. I've got an hour to go home at 5:00, of course I'm tired and I can just lie down because I'm no good for anything else. And on Monday it is new, nor can I rest from a hard week, let alone from the weekend." Freedom for the first time. Another employee. “Every 14 days I was also hit by work on Sundays. What does that mean for me and my family? I usually work Saturday mornings, and I don't even rest, even if I'm working free, I'm not relaxed, because I can't go anywhere. But the worst thing for me is that my oldest son is coming from college on Friday night, and I can't even wash and dry my hair without sitting down or talking to him. ON Sundays, however, he broke my heart because he went to university before I came back at all." Trey. “I’m interested in one of those who advocates has also worked weekends, nobody. I can tell you that I worked with us for 13 days together and then I was free for two. I am personally so tired after 13 days that I can barely do anything after the apartment and then lie down, nor on any trip am I able not to talk about holidays when you do not get a free day.” Fourth. “Sunday work brings nothing good to a trader, it brings stress and misery, because mentally people and employers destroy you. Offer, advise, sell, but we walk and say “thank you, just watch”. With regard to families, Sunday was always a day off and a day off for socializing. It is also right to move forward in order for our descendants to realize that it is a family and that they can count on the family, and Sunday is just unnecessary flashes in trade.” Fifth. »On Sundays it is stressful and psychologically tiring both by the buyers and by the employer. The employer asks you to sell as much as you can if the client just looks and buys nothing even if you don't sell anything. Of course, the worker is a cost and it is necessary to pay. Family or money. Family and leisure are worth more than money and health, which begins to start traders mentally in the workplace. It is sad that the hourly item is paid 6.05 euros gross.” And the last one. “When I started working in the store more than 30 years ago, they weren’t working for weeks. The week of work was quicker in anticipation of a week off when we could enjoy our family. We had picnics, took a trip to the sea, or into nature, or hung out at home. We were together every Sunday. We also had a wonderful time in the ministry, and everything was in a good mood. Then they introduced the weeks; we worked day after day, no conclusion. Yeah, we got one day of Frej in the week, but what, then the kids are at school or kindergarten and the husband is at work. And I was at home alone that day cleaning, cooking, doing more than usual, and, of course, this day passed without rest. This is the freedom you and capital have brought with this deregulation to workers and workers. They can no longer afford to work free, they can no longer spend time with their families, they have no time for friends, they often have no time or for themselves. They work 13 days at ease, and the day of the week, when they're gay, everyone else is at school or at work, working at home. This is the freedom you promote here. This is the freedom you have in your mouth. That's how much it allows us to clarify this freedom. Secondly, we have even heard that those who propose closing trade on Sundays are destroying Slovenia. Look, Slovenia is people and people who work in stores on Sundays, you could listen to them yesterday, burn them, have no time for themselves, suffer injuries at work, retire from disability at 45 years of age, and so on due to exhaustion and injury. This country is people and this country is being destroyed by those who destroy people in this country and Sunday's work is definitely among the first destroyers of people on the list, so it's high time to stop. As Ambassador Polnar told you earlier, this Sunday's work is not normal. Yesterday, the secretary himself from the ministry said that 11 countries in Europe regulate Sunday work for a very clear reason. Capitalism, if it is unspeeded and unregulated to society and peoples, must therefore be restrained and regulated. How did we come to this, Polnar told you? Before the crisis, big merchants owed a lot of money, built big centers, competed with more shining hubs in Slovenia. When the crisis struck and the flow of cheap credit dried up, they were in debt and had two options – Option A – to shut down intolerable trade, to withdraw from those investments that were inherited or B – internal restructuring, which means lowering wages, stretching workers, introducing penitential work, extracting people like lemon, as Franz Trček would say. Of course, they didn't decide on the first one, the withdrawal from intolerable investments, but they decided on the second one, the extortion of people. And now we've been in this cycle for over a decade now, when large capital because of the debts it has accumulated itself destroys and tramples people. Today, we are ahead of the choice on which side we will stand, whether we will stand on the side of the grandstand, or whether we will take sides with those who have been taken away from them for weeks as part of the day off in the greed of their owners, and I ask kindly that I no longer hear in this room today, that any of the workers and workers work on Sundays voluntarily. Please. P
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u37	Thank you. I see there's still interest in the debate. I'm going through the list. Applications are under way. The first one has the word mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State, welcome! I want to tell you just a few reasons why today this law, which is before us unanimously, should be supported. For the first time, even the crisis itself, the health crisis, the covid crisis has shown what we all felt. We live in too many consumer worlds. Consumption as if it were a God, resulting in the exploitation of man as if permitted. The crisis itself has brought at least the realization that more time for home, more time for family, and for friends and for nature can in fact significantly improve the quality of life. Secondly, we are still seeing a similar trend as they noted in 2008 in the wake of this great global, financial, economic and later social crisis. And that is that we are no longer equal to capital and people. I would really like to, but the situation is not that all workers and workers are members of union movements. At that time, power would be a little more balanced, but in real life it is different, and then it is a policy task to protect people. This law, which is before us today, respected colleagues and colleagues, is one of the few laws. I wish there were more of these laws that put man first. And that is also why I appeal to you to support this marriage. I am aware, however, that I think the Secretary of State has already mentioned today that this law does not solve all areas. However, if we accept the argument, let us wait for systemic solutions, this is the final argument in politics that nothing is done, so today this law needs to be adopted. But not just this. It is necessary to listen to those who say that now, if ever, now is the time to consider a six-hour worker, that now is the time to consider a four-day weekly workshop, which the car industry in crisis is in some way asking. And there's a lot of other respectable and respected people we could do for people, but we have to do it. At the same time, I would like to tell you very strongly, I condemn, but I do condemn all those pressures on employees if you do not do what big trade wants, but we will forgive. It's illegal pressure on people for me. Knowing that merchants and merchants are missing. And now, respected and respected by some representatives in this House, if you do not behave properly, if it is not always in the interest of the capital, we will take revenge. This is an additional argument by the honourable Member and honourable Members that today you all press the button to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The next one has the word of a colleague, Aljaž Kovacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u40	Thank you for saying so, President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. A lot has already been said on the committee itself. In principle, I didn't intend to come by because I thought that all marriage would go through without any amendments and without some broad debate. It was mentioned that this referendum was already in 2003 and that we are now living in some other times. I'd like to say a little bit about how sad it is that something that was voted at the referendum 17 years ago, 17 years later we're only deciding on it. We can ask ourselves that all those parties who have been in Parliament since 2003 and who have led different governments have not actually realized these wills of some people. What kind of pained me is that someone can say that a worker likes to work on Sundays. If I wanted him to bring this man, then this man, I don't know, maybe to parliament or somewhere else and really those workers say they like to work. The fact is, when you sign the contract, you accept that you'll work and then work on Sunday. I don't know if any of the employers ever offered an annex in their contract to a worker's life that he didn't have to work on Sunday, then if he offered it to him at first, only someone could say, yeah, and he wants to work on Sunday because he said, write me a contract that I want to work on Sunday. We don't know what's going to happen. We don't know what's going to happen. The fact is that if this law is adopted today, which I hope will be that then these wholesalers will take advantage of it, and for other reasons, when workers are forgiven, they will have some good reason to say that because they are closed down on Sunday, we forgive workers today. Now we can turn the story around. If we reject this law today, or if those who oppose this law today, you can claim that this law will not be forgiven by wholesalers today. If you can confirm that, then yes, we may try to break this marriage for six months and see if the wholesalers will fire any employee for the next six months. So, now to talk how much, why, it's a little too fast. It's interesting that when we're done for a weekend, we all like to say a nice weekend, even here in the National Assembly. Now, I don't know, this beautiful weekend is probably no one's imagining if you call a friend here a nice weekend, and then he's working on Sunday. So, it's already a habit of our people, and from our speech, when you wish someone a nice weekend, you probably don't want a nice weekend at work. So we can see where we came from. The fact is that people are used to us, even though I personally hate them in stores, and I don't go to them, or on Mondays or Tuesdays or on Thursdays or Fridays, so I have a thank God at home partner or we shop online, but not everyone buys online and they have to go shopping. But it's a fact that on Sundays we rarely do, but we also go to the mall, but not to go to the store, but to take a trip. Now people are going to make these trips into some more intelligent locations, if I may say so. The fact is that, at present because of the crisis, trade on Sunday is not closed and I have never seen any people anywhere to point out how they can't survive, because now they're closed on Sundays, they're hungry, they don't have potatoes or anything to cook their own lunch. So we see that things can actually work in practice. In the end, I may be a bit of a challenge, but don't take this as an insult. You're talking about freedom of the economy, how the economy has to be, how they always have to work. When we have holidays and work days in Slovenia, for example, we are at home for Easter Monday, for Mary's ascension, for the Day of Remembrance of the Dead, for Christmas, so then these stores should be closed too, for I have nothing to say about Easter Monday, so let's say at home. Maybe that Monday would have gone to the store, but I can't. So these free-economy fighters will then also have to fight for those days that have nothing in principle with the state, that even those days of trade are open, but that you will not misunderstand, it is understandable that these days are closed and, of course, I will support this law that they will also be closed on Sunday. And it saddens me that I will vote on this for 17 years after that.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u41	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Tina Hefferle's.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u42	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice hello to you all! I am pleased that this debate is taking place today. I listen carefully to all the debaters, including Mr Verbic, who in his debate referred very often to the Constitution, but perhaps just for intermezza, it would be nice if colleagues from SMC referred to the Constitution even when we adopted the first crown package or the fourth one, but let us leave the details. He spoke to his colleague about unfair competition and about a free economic initiative. In my opinion, this amendment, which they tabled today, does not address or refer to what he has always highlighted in his debate, but in my opinion the SMC amendment creates an opportunity for discriminating the treatment of our citizens or workers. As it is said, it regulates some special status of students, students and pensioners. A special status vis-à-vis employees and puts them in a privileged position. Earlier, colleague Pavlič had already said nicely on a plastic case where someone who has student status would be able to work according to their opinion, someone of the same age, while the same social standard is not a student, but is unemployed, but will not be able to work on Sundays, so here their amendment raises some legal basis which otherwise exists in the legal order governing the labour market, but this legal basis creates some inequality before the law and this is certainly not good, and that is why I do not support this amendment, because there is a kind of arbitrarial proposal, or in the explanation of this amendment we do not find or I do not follow some legitimate reasons that these two social groups, namely students, students and on the other hand of the pensioner, are not otherwise treated. Now, of course, this arbitration is a problem which has already been brought to the attention of the Constitutional Court in that decision in 2005, when it decided on a similar issue as we are dealing with it today. True arbitration is certainly not in place to talk about it in any way, or to support such an amendment as it is today because it does not drink water. Now, even after the initial proposal, as confirmed yesterday by the Committee on the Economy, these two social groups, which are now specifically highlighted by SMC, could also work on Sundays, we have heard a case where the owner of the trade would just hand over a procurator or a pensioner or a student or a student could also work normally in accordance with this legal dictatorship as we originally have on the table, so that and in this case no social group would be preferred and there would be no inequality between residents or employees or unemployed, so some general legal basis from the original bill is one that essentially follows the purpose set out by the Constitutional Court in its decision 2005. We have now also heard a great deal of words on the subject of social dialogue, so that this topic could be addressed in social dialogue and that it is not a suitable legal way to interfere with a free economic initiative in the way it is. Now the time for social dialogue has been enough, employers and traders, but the workers have not been able to complete it, and in my opinion now the free economic initiative in light of this law is not too limited, because we need to know that, even in accordance with the Constitution, as in law then, we can limit free economic initiative if, of course, it is a legitimate public benefit. And the protection of workers' rights to rest, in my opinion, is such a public benefit, because a day that is set by tradition for rest, this is a Sunday for us, justifies that the legislator reaches out to this social area by law and in my opinion it is perfectly appropriate to regulate it. Now this public benefit is important and even more important if we remember the outcome of the referendum when the public expressed their will to shut down trade on Sundays. The public benefit is also expressed when we closely followed the Committee on the Economy yesterday, where both workers' representatives and individual workers in trade took part and expressed their views very clearly, emotionally, and if this is not sufficient public benefit, then I do not know what it is. Given that we need to know that the consumer will not be deprived of anything on Sundays because the stores will be closed. Many studies, economic studies are based on the available income that a person has and uses to purchase life’s necessities. The fact that trade on Sundays is exactly one day a week, the closed one does not change this available income, or the consumer will therefore spend no less, but will adjust his behaviour and spend the money he has already planned to spend on life’s necessities in those six available days. So the concern here is that this account will be closed down on Sundays to reduced sales and consequently to redundancies. Even yesterday, we were able to hear on the committee that traders and traders are already closed for almost four months because of the changed circumstances due to the new coronavirus, but they are doing overtime. So, I honestly think that the fear of forgiveness should be too much. But it is true that this fact could be taken advantage of, and I hope not. Of course, the amendment does not follow the spirit of marriage, and we have already heard it. After this amendment, which is very wide-ranging, most of those stores that would meet the 200 square condition would be open because, of course, an individual trader or shop owner would find those students or pensioners who would be willing to work on Sundays or who would have the opportunity to work on Sundays. Just a brief comment on the breach of working conditions in the trade sector. These violations are quite a few things. But let me put it this way, there's not a proper union here, as we may have heard in one of the debates, but why the union doesn't deal with these violations. We have labour inspectors in our country who have to make sure that labour legislation is not violated. And this is where the country should act in its role and play its part. And also the argument that the workers who are going to work on Sundays, yes, kindly please, can say this to someone who did not accompany yesterday's Economic Committee, where the workers, the traders, have really expressed their distresses when they have to work on Sunday. Finally, I must also touch on Mr Jelinčič's discussions or discussions. It was very surprising to me that the champion of the Slovenian National Party took care of, what would she say, caring for neighbouring Croats and their shopping on Sundays, as he said. I think that's true, but this is really not an argument to justify our shops and shopping malls being open only because Croats come to our house on Sundays. In short, I think that, as a society, after all these years, we have matured to change our habits. Finally, we proved this during the period when we have this coronary virus and the stores are closed. We have adapted to this and I think that if we regulate this now, it will not be a problem. Moreover, the public, the whole public, almost a large part of the public supports this, so I will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u43	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Jože Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u44	Thank you very much, President, for your word. My colleagues and colleagues, please, not in the way that you are today trying to achieve some of the objectives of this debate. Because it is obvious that individuals are under some influence — either capital, commerce, or on the other hand — I will tell the employees. Look, all the time I've been listening, and I've been listening before, because it's not the first time on the agenda this business is closed on Sundays, I'm doing a SWOT analysis. Members should make practical use of this in every matter in order to vote fairly, neutrally. What's this all about? In SWOT analysis, all the factors involved are needed, and in our case, of course, these factors are employed in commercial activities, on the other hand, that is capital, that is the owners of trade and that third group are consumers, and we must not forget that, and all these three factors must be borne in mind when we decide on this today. And what does SWOT's analysis say? Advantages, on the one hand, are factors that help to improve all these three factors and, of course, conflict of interest afterwards. On the other hand, we have weaknesses, the factors limiting this growth, this activity. Then we have opportunities that aren't enough for everyone. They enable and benefit growth and development. And then, as a fourth factor, the opposite is, of course, the dangers that we also have to bear in mind. And each of these three factors that I've listed, that is, employees, capital owners or capital, and we consumers can do our own analysis. Of course, at the end of the day it is necessary to put in one common image. And let's try, look, for each of the factors I could talk about right now for an hour, but of course I won't scare you. Let's try to get into something crucial. The proposal itself is based on the adoption of the 2003 referendum and unfortunately this will of the people has not yet been realized. It's one of the facts we can't use. The proposal itself is, of course, based on established practice known in other countries such as Austria, Switzerland, Germany. Of course, the Ministry has also given a nice presentation in Hungary, Poland, because these countries, or this practice, are important to see what mistakes have been made and not to be repeated in this regard. But we certainly can't compare it to some America, because it's in the opposite direction, but it's also right to see what those negative effects are especially on people, on employees, on consumers. It is the basic rights of employees, as we heard yesterday in the presentation of all the labour unions. In particular, I listened to the employees. It is their quality of life and the life of their families in a broader sense, and it is a culture of life, of power and, above all, of psychology on the part of the consumer, which is carried out by capital. And of course, it affects our habits. So this law is not just about employees, I repeat, and capital owners, it is also about us citizens and citizens, what will be our habits, how will we live. Yeah, do we really want to spend the day at work in stores, centers, and spend? Do we want to be able to spend another day with our family in the countryside, in nature, in sports, in sight of sightseeing, with good local food? Let us ask ourselves, What is better for our quality of life? Well, as my colleagues have said before me, if we're going to be seven days -- and you know what I mean by that -- we're going to take for different things, for a different way of life, I think that's also necessary, and that's when I said psychology that they're doing on us, that we're going to spend, we're going to spend, we're going to spend. And we know where we're going with this. See, let's say a few words about what happened in the 1990s after the independence and even at the beginning of this millennium with the arrival of these large, in particular foreign trading chains, and we must not ignore that it is already two thirds of the trading network of foreign trade. And I don't mean anything by it when I say strangers, but that's what big stories are about. Such concentration of trade activities occurred in these large shops during this period of the 1990s and at the beginning of this millennium, and then all small trades, family trades supported by local communities after Slovenia's independence. I remember so well what good resources the mayors have been working on at the local level that then individuals can survive, family companies. And then with those big ones, it all fell apart. I'll just give you one case, which I've been saving. An entrepreneur who was very successful in selling Jatine products when he arrived in Slovenj Gradec Spar, Mercator was prohibited from selling Jati then through this private activity I will tell the entrepreneur if he wants to sell Jat with them. That's when you ask yourself where all this is going. Of course, it's also good, all in one place, these centers offer us this, everything should be lower if it's concentrated on the consumer, and these are the advantages, if we're talking about SWOT analysis, we need to be aware of this, but where and how the other area is. If we look at the analysis as being presented here today and, of course, as I said, when I listened to you, I could make up a SWOT analysis of this because you discussed and stressed from various perspectives what is good and what is not good. In particular, I have been paying particular attention to the fact that trade centres in Slovenia are in front of the neighbouring countries of Italy, particularly Austria and Germany, that they do not meet these comparable criteria. And here I'm wondering, why do we have, but we Slovenians are less worthy of having fewer employees on the surface for sale? Why do we have higher sales prices than in Austria, Italy and Germany? Why, though, if our purchasing power is smaller? I have information why, so under your hand when you talk. Because Slovenia is supposed to be more at risk than other countries. Really? But then that's the reason that prices have to be higher, that we have to pay even more for smaller wages? So, trade centres, trading chains must then, of course, make more profits with us, even because workers, we know, but the labour force is much cheaper for us than in these developed European countries, where these owners come from and then, of course, the capital flight to these countries. We know how to do that. One of them is officially at transfer prices, and with these procedures, there can be a lot of cover-up if I say unofficially. What will be the consequences of an adopted law if we try to get to the grave? There will certainly be more visits in the other days, especially on Fridays and Saturdays. This is a fact and this has also been shown elsewhere by practice. And then I don't know why you're talking so much that I don't know what's going to happen or what's going to happen. It is nothing more than those large ones who have now acquired this large share of the sales market, they do not want to lose it and they want to strengthen it, even though they already have over 90% in their hands. The number of employees will need to be increased in these days. It's called Fridays and Saturdays, because there'll be more traffic on a bigger visit. So redistribute the employees by release on Sundays. Of course, trade centres will have a percentage less, we have to admit that there will be less, because we may spend a little less, but in stores we will save this part, which we will save here, more quality, somewhere else, in rural areas, in farms, in rural tourism, with domestic food, with organic food, in domestic environment and culture, and so on and so on. And of course, trade centres will also have fewer costs for this, because Sunday's work is the highest cost, and this is seen as a financial analyst in the 40's it's not clear why they say otherwise. Underneath any draw, we would have less costs and therefore I stress that traders are only market shares that they do not want to lose, but they want to gain it further. Forgiveness, yes, but why and how. Let's see what the structure of employees that is created in these years and how many regular employees, domestic workers, through agencies, foreigners, self-employed, students and other forms of nicknames that work today by trade. How much overtime and exactly the latter will primarily affect the earnings of the employees and when we listened yesterday, the employees are aware. Of course, if they spoke on behalf of most of their fellow workers. They will, of course, take this into lease for more free time, for the family, for a better quality of life and for more health. This has been highlighted several times, and I believe it, and I also said yesterday at the beginning that I feel that we are somewhere in the 18th century, when shopkeepers are fighting for their rights, some fundamental rights. Of course, it is not so bad, but of course, it is just a continuation of this struggle for a normal life that some have but others do not. Of course, see, if traffic falls due to the Covida-19 epidemic of the fall of GDP, the fall of purchasing power, and then the trade activity has to be rationalised and reduce costs, and this is the same measure, and we do not say the seventh day, then we reduce it to other days, because in any case the cost of work is the most expensive, and this is actually the option after which it can be rationalised and however it is now feared or realistic, we can expect this covid to continue for probably another year, unfortunately. That's what we have to count on. It is better to be prepared for this scenario than to say everything optimistic, that for the second year I do not know what growth will be. Here it goes, look at it at the end of the day to conclude the gradual redeployment of activities that will gradually approach the organisation of countries, as they already know in Austria, Switzerland, Germany and those eleven countries that have already introduced this labour limit on Sundays. And there because the shopping malls don't operate on Sundays, they don't fail the trade chain, and for that reason there is no increase in unemployment. However, if it occurs that someone is already operating at the border and that it will affect, then this will be redistributed, like everywhere on the market, where competition exists and then other jobs, other activities and so on. Finally, on Sundays, let us finally give more opportunity to domestic producers of organic food, domestic trades and other services that can increase their activities through markets, stalls and small shops and also affect the well-being of tourism. After all, or we will really just sell some artificial things and try to think only in this way mass work, or we will also represent Slovenia what we have here for profit, what are the characteristics, indigenous food and other products and services that people can see in Slovenia. Is it true that only foreigners will dictate our lives through their trades? Let's ask ourselves that question. Look, I've been talking about practice for decades, and we talk very little. Most of all, through the development and expansion of domestic tourism, tourism on farms, which is urgently in need of additional activities due to small farms. As far as we are concerned about the last ten years, twenty years from now, what we are doing in practice, and this is also possible, the opportunity to make further use of these activities and to open up space for these domestic activities. This is said to be a domestic person with domestic processing, from home – profits – all will remain at home. And because of that, believe me, the wholesalers will not fail. Let's think about it. I've been trying to bend it a little bit, and we're trying to make it real today, and then we're trying to push something on the button, after all, we want it. I support this law, of course, because I see more advantages and opportunities than weaknesses and threats to society as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mrs Jerca Korča, prepare the mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u46	Vice President, thank you so much for saying this. Good-bye, everybody! I am a proponent of social dialogue, and even in this case, i.e. in the event of the closure or non-closure of trade, it would be an ideal scenario for social dialogue between partners to reach a suitable agreement. It is a fact, however, that when this agreement is not reached, the policy here is that unfortunately it has to cut through this Gordy knot, which originates in ping-ponging between the two sides. I hope that such signals are also with the social partner in this direction, but it is appropriate for them to sit at a table on such topics and find an agreement that will suit both sides, because surely the legislative path is not the most ideal path. The most ideal path would be an agreement between the social partners, but we also have a case of minimum wages from the past and no agreement has been reached, and then the policy has been cut off. We also have, if history is a teacher, at the minimum wage of a threat with no economic downturn, with severe redundancies, and none of this has happened, and we know that this argument has been mainly used by employers and is practically the same here in stores. The argument they have, the argument of forgiveness or the threat of forgiveness is not on the figures, because the sector, the trade sector, is undernourished as regards the number of employees and because, on the other hand, there is more profits per year, so that this argument basically falls on numbers, not on political ideology, not on my thinking or on the thinking of the left or anyone else falls on numbers. Second argument is less consumption. But with this argument, I've been dealing with it myself, yeah, what happens. And yesterday, I spoke to a man with a healthy farmer's mind. In fact, unlike most of us here, I've attached Luke, who asked if any of you worked in this room on Sundays. I worked alone in the inn and worked well from Friday to Sunday without any special days off, and I prefer to stop at the very place where I used to work and ask people to see a healthy farm of brains and one of them told me very nicely, he said: "So what do they make with less consumption, or do we not see that when one day the shop is closed, because the holiday is how people get more and I am one of them. If there is a store one day, if I know that the store will be closed tomorrow, instead of the six I buy the whole salary.”, that was his answer and that is true. So I don't know if this argument is the best thing to do about less consumption. People will just buy more on Saturday. Winning Jelinčič said the merchants are happy to work on Sundays because they get more. Yeah. Here. That's what one store told me, too, that sometimes she turns out to be working on Sundays to get a little more. But this is not a problem of opening trade on Sundays, it is a problem of low wages and we should discuss why wages in the sector making profits are really big profits, so low. This is a key issue, let's not leave trade open on Sundays, so people will get some more euro on their payroll. Several colleagues, especially colleagues from SMC, referred to the Constitution. Nice. I am pleased that you have started to read the Constitution, because in the last half of the year this has been a huge problem for you in restricting the movement when laws were passed, in the application of Articles 103, 104, not least the Constitutional Court has also told you how you dealt with construction, etc. So, thank you for starting to read the Constitution. But the Constitution cannot read selectively when it just suits us and reads to us only in the part where we advocate a free economic initiative and then interpret it as it suits us. The Constitution must, in my opinion, be read first of all with regard to the protection of human rights. But here you have fallen on the basic exam, and this will, I believe, be told by the Constitutional Court several times in the future, and in this particular legislative proposal I have not seen any constitutional lawyer or legislative and legal service that would tear this matter apart in constitutional terms, so that, too, this argument does not hold the best water. Now, in stores, Slovenians have one interesting phenomenon about how our trades have really grown like mushrooms in the rain lately. Here, in my opinion, we are also dealing with the issue of spatial, proper treatment of our space, by how our space becomes walled up with huge shopping centres. In some small places or medium places, three or four shops grow at once, in my personal opinion, completely in the wrong spatial positions. Of course, since these same wholesalers from abroad will not put up a store where it is not the most ideal land, it is usually the land that is green or even partially agricultural. So we also have to ask ourselves here what we are doing with our space, allowing so much building and so much shopping centers that we probably don't need, but this is a matter of politics, of local authorities and of the municipalities that set it up in their spatial acts and, yes, of this national assembly. And that's where we're going. There is a growing pressure on workers and workers to sell more and more. Yes, there are violations and there is no respect for labour law, these are statements of trades that are real, not made of vines. So that I hope and believe absolutely I will support this proposal today because in the entire debate on closing trade, the arguments of the opponents have not convinced me, and I have let myself convince or listen to them, but as they say, have fallen on numbers and facts. Above all, I hope that today is the first step to allow traders and traders one free working day, which will be cemented in the law. Unfortunately, we cannot make this possible for many professions because they will always have to work on Sundays for health workers, policemen and many others, but also for those who have to work on Sundays, they support solidarity for those who can do so. So I hope that this is not the last step and that we will think about how to better regulate workers' rights on the one hand, how inspection services do their work or do not do it and so on because we are still responsible for people here. Of course, we are responsible for enabling capital or owners and the economy to develop, but we are also responsible for regulating how and under what conditions these activities can develop. So that I hope and believe even in the very broad support of politics and that Sunday for traders and traders becomes the free day that they will take advantage of as they think it is right and not as a contract or as an employer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss only one warning before we do. Mr Ivanuša, I have heard your comments during the colleague's discussion. But it's not fair to bother her like that. I suggest you sign up for the debate in the next round and say what you have to say. The next one has the word mag. Branislav Rajić, prepare Mr Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. Just before you intervened in the case of your colleague Ivanuša, I wanted to tell you that I know you like to intervene, and I am surprised that during a few minutes' essay of your fellow Member on how Members of SMC are reading the Constitution, you have not decided to intervene. However, I believe that this part of its implementation is a vengeful teasing. But there is one thing in which I agree with her, and that is that we should have an economic and social agreement reached and that we should not have to deal with this subject and this law in this way. Because, you see, we're all trying to prove ourselves right and, of course, everything is fine with this, but today they're prompting us to represent exclusively the interests of capital in the SMC and I strongly reject it, because with myself, with some colleagues and colleagues I know perfectly clearly that this is not the case. We protect the rights of people who want to work and we want to protect also the rights of people who want to shop and measure between these two populations and the third that you are exposing and recognizing that they have the right, that they also have the right to take action for them and to say what the consequences will be for all others and for society as a whole. And my colleague Mesca, I greatly appreciate this use of lies, too, when he says that the 11 countries of the European Union have a regulated sale on Sundays. That's not true. In the European Union we have four countries having regulated sales on Sundays, namely Austria, Germany, Belgium and Greece. And if you look, I don't know, it's probably not going to be seen, but if you look at the map of Europe, it's completely green when it denotes countries that don't have closures on Sundays and only these four countries are red, and they're closed on Sundays, so I have to respond when lies are said in terms of argument, which is what we have to do. The economy tried this in Hungary, the experiment lasted one year and it hit the economy because it didn't work. The next question is this referendum issue, which is always referred to as the referendum will of the people to shut down trade. And that's not true. The people's referendum will was that food trade was open up to 10 weeks a year, and that is the referendum will of the people, without everything being closed and always closed. And we also need to make that clear, which is not true. We have a situation where, if these shops are closed down, our people will go to Croatia, Italy, Hungary, the Austrian country of Styria is also preparing to open trades in this zone, because of course they are great. The times of Fat Berta will return to Maribor, Šentil and other parts, and if this social dialogue were to be completed, we would have had a slightly more question about how the rights of one, other and third parties were handled. Our trade among other industries has the highest unemployment rate. In March and April 2020 alone, 3,000 people lost their jobs in trade. If this is not clear to anyone, what will be the consequences of the measure through the law you are now proposing, then it is indeed a mere nuisance. The next element that is overlooked is that many students work in trade and that these people are of course primarily studying, but they also want to serve and help themselves in this way and he will be the first to strike forgiveness. I'm surprised Levice doesn't care about that. In trade, people who work on signed collective agreements and under the terms of this collective agreement are obliged to work for two weeks or a maximum of 20 weeks per year or holidays, young mothers with children under three years of age do not have to work and have supplements which are percentage higher for Sunday and holiday work than in the rest of the economy and much more than in the public sector, even double, double. Thus, after some calculations, there will be a seller who would like to work on Sundays and will not be able to reduce it by EUR 1500. And in other countries of the European Union, they tried to introduce laws in a similar way, and of course they did not, they went to the Constitutional Court and all the Constitutional Courts repealed these attempts. Nor do I believe the polls cited by the unions for a simple reason, because their interest is of another kind, this must all be clear, the credibility of these polls still seems methodologically questionable, so let us not all fall into the traps if one is affording it in the spirit of their political agenda. Trade unions and employers are primary stakeholders and, of course, they could agree. We also have a little bit of an ideological question here, because of course one day, which is called the Lord's Day, after one idealistic variant is certainly from some ancient times ideal to beat it up just a house, a stable and a cow, but not all live like this and also people who go to the mass turn into a buffet, also turn into a store and I don't know if they have something for the soul in this kind of spiritual sense, why not also for the body at the same time, if a pure banal thing is set up in this way. I am also disturbed by this limitation to 200m2, especially for s.p.- is because people who have created conditions themselves to work for their family, whether it is really important that they have 200m2, or 205 or 220. That's unfair, because none of us gave any of them anything. They created everything themselves, and we now determine that because it has 250 square feet, it cannot work on Sundays when, say, in a tourist destination, it has the only highest income, and at all, the work is totally wrong in my opinion, and these people will probably not remain silent because they are also paying taxes and fighting for every euro like everyone else. I'm surprised the motioner doesn't believe I'm canceling my forgiveness. We've already seen the statistics in March and April, and I don't know how you can't believe now that the continuation of this can only go exponentially, but not less. Therefore, I would invite him to commit himself to accepting those people who are going to lose their jobs and to be publicly shown to see how such meetings are taking place when he imagines how good and positive this law is. We proposed an amendment to the SMC, and based on the outcome, yesterday's outcome of the Committee on the Economy was also enriched by the fact that we insist, however, that it still be possible for 10 weeks per year of trade to be left open and working. We believe that the one who contributes to justice and employment, including family trade, is good and that is why we have also proposed that students, students, including pensioners who want to work should be employed. I think it's freedom that no one can limit, no matter what belief. We also have answers, say one camp, camp Šbeg – they say they have a shop, a small shop of one of the big providers who works in this camp, which has 150 nights a year, now can be closed, just on Sundays, when they have the most, and when this camp is also something that offers all the services, I practically decapit now if you want. So I am convinced that this decision on the complete closure on Sunday is unjust, that it is not in the spirit of our time, of our civilizational achievements, and that this crisis will be, of course, that it will only deepen through this. This law stems from opposition irresponsibility for the consequences, because when there is unemployment, there will be no money for “shopping” in Italy, Austria, Hungary and Croatia, and then, you will see, the deadline of the opposition will turn to the coalition and point to the culprit. Today, Luke and society are cooking us one of these poisonous sauces that will make a lot of lunch and report today “we have made you a week off”, but 1 out of every 10 people who tell them that he has saved them a week off, he will have 15 days off Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays from today, so that you will have to see what happens to him or her when he is depressed and give up, and in the absence of what will help him – an allowance for the unemployed? Because he will not be helped by picnics, nor by priests, nor by trade unionists, nor by a messenger who has given him a very sweetly worded sum of what he has set up for him. He'll be standing in front of a closed store where he once cut a salami and remember how nice it was when he had his salary. And let him remember the politicians who put him in this, the law is not to be supported, but today it is the voice of reason that will – I fear – remain in the minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajic. Let me just give you a brief answer to your introductory conclusion, which was wrong. I do not like to intervene, I do not interfere with the substantive debates of the debaters at all, but I am obliged, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to warn and intervene when order is not established in the Chamber and I think I will continue to do so consistently. Now we have a replica. Mrs. Jerca Korce, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u50	Just to explain to my colleague Rajić, no vendettas. I just said that today you have taken the constitution into your hands, you have started to refer to Article 74 of the Constitution, while lately this constitution has practically broken and rejected in many of the intervention laws of the government of Janez Janša, but you have been as a coalition partner silently and you have observed the breaking of this constitution, and this continues. And I hope that the other members will begin to read so intensely, that's all I wanted.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Let us, however, limit ourselves to trade law in the debate, although a broader debate on the amendment is allowed. Now he wanted the word "proposer"? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u52	Thank you. He himself would have two explanations, or replicas. The first is with regard to my statement, which Branislav Rajić called a fake, which is that in 11 European countries, trading hours are regulated on Sundays. Now I was referring to the secretary from the Ministry of Economy, Simon Zajc, who came from your party who said that yesterday. However, if I am correct, this is shown by the analysis of the Chamber of Commerce, which also issued a map showing that the time of trade is regulated in 11 countries on Sundays. And even if you look at it, now I have gone a little digging myself, there are data on the Internet that are such and different regulations not only in Belgium, Germany, Austria, but also elsewhere, in France, Malta and elsewhere. So, that's for the first thing. Second, when you talk about this mass forgiveness and so on. See, the space occupied by trade is 35% higher than it was in 2008 and the number of employees has decreased in the meantime. Yesterday, if they're holding the data that one of the union representatives gave, even for 10,000 less people working in the store. The result of this is, of course, automation, electronic cash registers and, on the other hand, pre-carrying, hiring students, hiring foreign workers and lowering labour costs in general. Trade unions estimate that there are 7 000 people missing today and that people have to work overtime. There's a short cut in the workforce. And if I rely again on the analysis provided by the Ministry of Economy and the Chamber of Commerce, we have an average volume of traffic in Europe in stores, but we have an average number of employees. So that our stores are humanely fed and people work too hard, people work too hard. At the same time, they're forced to do Sunday work, where I'd get a little banged up about this salami that they're going to miss. I don't think they'll miss anyone cutting them like a salami on Sundays.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The following is Mr Marko Bandelli, and Mr Gregor Perič is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u54	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Now I'm here to speak from personal experience. I've been a salesman for 30 years. In 30 years, I think I've seen what's good for trade, what's not, what's successful for an employee, what's good for an employee, what's good for one. So here in all this law, which I understand, I have a little bit of a different opinion in some respects, if I say so. Now, you know, you have to understand that it's very difficult to dictate by law, to close or to ban the activity of many, which is also the only source of income to him. Many have invested, many have not slept night and night, because he was concerned if he could pay credit for certain activities that he opened, including shops, butchers, such and other, if you could say trade. [[Incomprehensible]] Now we're going to ban certain activities by law, aren't we? We need to ask ourselves here if that's right. I will refer to our amendment and thank you to all of you who have confirmed it and I think that it was very well written also argued with respect to stores up to 200 square meters, I do not understand why we need to limit here only to if there is a sleeping owner, that only he in there can work in, if even espé is a carrier of activities as such, there are no procurists usually espés, so here I see a little problem. You know, I've had one of my views on stores, like I told you, I've been doing this for 30 years. The biggest problem is not that a person would be at home on Sundays, even if it is one tradition such, I see the biggest problem, my opinion, personal opinion in payment for the service offered to the employer. What was I gonna say? You know, that 6 euros an hour is nothing, for one who works on holidays and Sundays is one amount that was low, which, at the end of the week, as you know, trade usually works up to 6 hours, that is to say, if he gets 36 euros gross there, he stays 18 euros net and spends a Sunday and spends a holiday. Let us rather ask ourselves if we would change this matter here and reach an agreement with the Chamber of Commerce that this amount would be for one who works at least €40 net on Sunday. Believe me, there'd be a lot of people scratching each other's throats to help him out on Sundays. So I don't see the problem, I mean, if we're exposing Sunday as a day off, the day off we made it up, it's Sunday, tradition made up that Sunday is a day off, it could be a day off Tuesday, and we could even have a Saturday for example. Who said Sunday must be the day off? I ask myself, I ask myself, 'cause you could say, 'cause the one who works on Sunday usually also has a day off then the other day, on Monday. Those who work for hours make certain schedules such that they have a freight all day and a half the following. But the point of it all bothers me, I don't mind working on Sundays, because people came to me and asked me if I like to work on Sundays, I like to get one source of income. Do you know what our country has accepted? This is the most ridiculous thing we've ever accepted to limit to 20 hours, 20 hours of extra work, overtime. Why did we limit it to what, no matter what we limit it to? We don't let a man do two jobs, we don't let that happen in our country. A man would work. Why must we ban any source of income from someone in need, why? Why does anyone who opens the afternoon espa ask again why if he pays for 8 hours of contributions on a regular basis? He works with the afternoon espionage and pays taxes, which is correct, but why make one more contribution, why? Here are the questions that we need to get to the table and solve. Stopping trade, now, if this were optionally likely small traders would really decide yes or no, depending on the activity, from the location, from the case to the case. Big merchants would leave it open anyway, we know that, which means big merchants are different. Only the problem of the laws that we adopt do not separate a large company many times, is said to be large traders from those who work hard, from those who have settled down for 30 years so that they can get to one activity. We have to start here and have one line between these things. And that's why I'm very pleased that our proposal for 200 square meters has been confirmed, even though it's not exactly what I wanted, but we're on the right track, the laws are made to change them too, I hope for the good of workers and employers with my hand in hand. What would be good, for example? If the stores were open on Sundays, there'd be an opportunity for an employee to say no. Here, then we come up with what students and pensioners need. Why limit it to a student if he has the opportunity to work on Sundays and if he wants to work on Sundays to earn money? Why don't you give us a chance? Once again, we're shortening certain rights for people. One pensioner, why can't he go to work if he has a need and a desire to work on Sunday? Why not? What's the problem? Can he go to the restaurant or work in the back of the kitchen? Can't he go to the store? It could be regular. [[Incomprehensible]] Why not? I mean, where do we go? 'Cause we're on call anyway. We don't ask questions about all those who work in hospitals, firemen, police, I don't know, all those who work, who are still on duty. No, the biggest problem is those who work in stores on Sundays. Put a little weight on how many of those who work really in stores and how many on-calls they work on Sundays. I'm talking about everything, look, one Elektro Primorska, they're on call people, they're all on duty. I give you cases, they work on Sundays. And that's why I say that people like that, the problem is the pay. I agree to raise these people not 100 percent, but 200 percent for work on Sundays. You work on Sundays, be paid, and it's fine. It's the only right thing to do. You know, we made these schedules, because of these big centers, we came up with some specific schedules for small stores that forced you to hire more people. And don't talk to me about profits here, about stores and profits I don't know what they are. What a profit!? What kind of profits?Oh, my God! When the season is more profitable, otherwise it must pay itself four, five months of all matters, taxes and contributions. Italy has a fantastic schedule, you don't even know what it's like, because you don't know, you're only going to Austria, and I don't know what eight and a half days is, third and a half, seven and a half. One of them works eight hours and it's saved. It's a separate schedule, and it's legal. We don't have an eight-hour shop. We have a seven-and-a-half-hour shop. That's what I mean. Let's be aware of that, too. We are one of the only countries in Europe that have seven and a half working hours. Because we've got a little payback for half an hour. Right, I'm happy with this, we're Americans here, really, we just don't realize the benefits we all have. Not in Italy. He's eight, he's divided, and they don't have lunch paid for, you know. It's all about pay, which they say is about higher wages abroad, in Italy, 30%. You don't have a paid trip to work in Italy, and you don't have a paid lunch. That's what you say, you have to put everything on the table, and we're doing seven and a half hours. There's not one year of maternity leave in Italy. He's not here! And after one year of maternity leave, you still have the right to take full leave. You didn't work because you were at maternity. And that's all right. I agree, look, I'm happy with this as long as it goes on as long as it drinks water while there's finance. But we can see that even the cash register now is always more dry. I'm happy with certain things. So many times here, when we talk about what kind of country we live in, what kind of poverty. The risk of poverty, I once had one debate here for more than half an hour, what is that threshold of poverty risk? I'm not going to talk about it again now, because then I'm better off than the outside, who are richer than we are, but all right. As far as I'm concerned, I agree. I'm going to support this marriage anyway, because I think it's okay. But I hope we'll slowly make some changes in this. I agree that some work is not done on Sundays, but I would agree that it would be possible for someone who wants to work. Why limit the right to work, which is written in the Constitution, by law? I will never understand this because then you know here too, we mentioned the constitution above, the constitution down, but see what was constitutionally disputed at the time? Limitation of operating time means an intervention in the right to free economic initiative, Article 74, right? Free economic initiatives, Article 74 of the Constitution. And now I really have to say, because, as you've seen, I'm not on one side or the other, so here we are the golden middle that we can decide a little bit of each other, so I won't talk about it. But look, forgiveness, which is what the Chamber of Commerce thinks they're going to fire 12,000 workers. I don't believe it. I don't believe that. I don't believe that. I would be pleased, however, that students and pensioners could literally be used so that it could work for a week. It's not an emergency, it's a choice, it's an opportunity for people. I guarantee that a lot of students and a lot of pensioners would go to work, of course not for 3 euros an hour, and that's the problem we have here. Now, as you know, that legislative referendum that was there. At that time that referendum was attended by 27.54% of the people. Of that, he barely made it through. Okay, barely 57% to 41. Then something was adopted, then there were some laws that applied it, then there was a new law that betrayed everything. If I get a little dizzy, because I still have a few minutes left, about the argument Left, which they wrote here why. I'm gonna go through quickly to tell you my point of view, my personal point of view, look. For example, the financial supplement, the argument of the Left says here, doesn't it? The financial allowance doesn't go away on Sunday, it's time for families. Of course, I agree with that. Because, like I said before, this financial supplement is too low, so here's the problem. And we all have to agree on that. If someone works on Sundays, they have to be paid, they have to be paid, paid fair if they work on Sundays. Then everyone doesn't get an allowance, like college kids, guys on vacation. Let's get this over with. By being extremely fond of students and giving all the opportunity that is necessary and I will be the first to sign, but student work is always an alternative work to one fixed work. [[Incomprehensible]] And we have to give students as much work as possible, absolutely as much work as possible, but we cannot, in any case, not treat them as an ordinary employee. We can't. We need to separate these two things. That is why I voted in favour of an increase in the student class and this, because I agree, correctly. Then you write "Sundays to survive with family and friends", yes, of course, that would be ideal, that's nice and that would be right, but I'm telling you before, but it's really Sunday that day that we chose. Then, in the end, “or we will insist on the weekends”, here I apologize to Luke if you explain to me then a little, whether we insist on the weekends or we submit our lives to the profits of the tradesmen and to the endless accumulation of capital. I mean, you guys are going down, and then with the last sentence, you ruin all the good you did before, right? It says everything good you do for the workers and everything you need, everything is fine, and in the end you fall with one sentence, which again beats after the evil capital, after the evil profit, everything it is. Ma, without profit and without capital, the social states wouldn't have had it, and let me understand that once. And I, here I always say, hand in hand must be. Hand in hand. The employer has to be satisfied and the worker who works for him needs to be even more satisfied. This is important, with each other. I always talk in jobs where the problem is. And, you know, it's not always the money problem that you don't think bad will is in the workplace, that it's just money. Far from it. Conditions are more important than anything else, aren't they? The only thing that bothered me was the sentence, if not the other way around. Now you say something else here, “take into account the 2003 referendum will of the voters”. That's not true, that's not true. No, I don't. Because it does not provide for an exception for ten weeks a year, whether it was written at the time. No, it's the way the referendum was supposed to be. Yeah, that was back then, but good. I'm going to finish, and I'm going to say, I'm going to confirm, of course, I'm going to agree with that. I hope one day there will be an upgrade to this. And I must also say that I will also confirm the amendment that the SMC is preparing, because it seems good to me that the possibility, without being banned, should not be forbidden to someone who has the will to work and is said to be pensioners, a student, if he wants to, if he wants me to have the opportunity to work on Sundays. Here I see the pure justice, the constitutional right of everyone who is the right to work. So much for me, President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u55	Thank you very much. First of all, we have Mr Ivanus' procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Anyway, you've already responded to my account, but I'm still asking that you want discipline and order. How are these masks now in Parliament? The predecessor, with all due respect to the predecessor, does not use a mask. Or how's that? Is that mandatory in here now or not? I believe they are, as I understand it, but I do mind that someone is not using this, but I believe that the president without the mask would be even more beautiful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr Member, for your question. Business regulations or I do not have the authority to warn Mr Bandelli that he is not wearing a mask, but now he is wearing it. Thank you. Looks like your warning's back on. So I suggest we just keep going. The speaker, Mr Luka Mesec, has made a statement, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u58	Thank you. A couple of explanations to Mr. Bandelli. Anyway, I've explained all these things several times in the last two days, but I'm going to try again not to make any misunderstandings or misunderstandings. First of all, why Sunday? Sunday's with us that day of the week, which is reserved for most people as a day off. It's a tradition, but Sunday is a day off, and then most people are free. If we look through the eyes of salesmen and shopkeepers, Sundays are like that. I used to read the letters they sent us to the committee yesterday, and I'm gonna take one of those messages again. Basically, one of the salesmen wrote it like this. When she started working in the store more than 30 years ago, weeks were free, and that meant that the week worked faster in anticipation of a week off because she knew she was going to relax one day and could enjoy her family. And he says, we had picnics, we went to the sea, we went to nature, or we hung out at home. Then they started the weeks and the first, since then we've been working day after day without a conclusion. Yeah, we got one day in a week of stew, but what, then the kids are in kindergarten or school, the man at work, I was alone, cleaning up, cooking, doing more than usual, and, of course, this day has passed without rest, so it's essential that Sunday is a day off and not Wednesday or so or any other, but Sunday. Another time. When you talk about other professions like firefighters, nurses, cops and asking what's wrong with them. These professions, these people are solidarity with merchants and merchants. Yesterday we also received social support from the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions, where all these unions of their activities, which explicitly say that firefighters, firefighters, nurses and brothers, police officers and policemen, join in offering to close trade on Sundays because they themselves know that working on Sundays is not nice, but it is true that they are unlike traders in the profession, which is indispensable on Sunday. Third time. When you say, at the end of the day, when we say that we must choose between whether we will insist on Sundays as workers' rights or whether we will submit to the merchants' race for profit and mark this statement essentially as ideological, which destroys all the arguments that we have previously made. I would say this; then you said that without profit there would be no social state. At present, profits in trade do not contribute most to the social state. There were a billion before taxes last year. All the big merchants are currently with the exception of Tuša in foreign ownership, which means, I think it is also Tuš – do not hold me to the word. I think that even everyone else is in foreign possession, and that means that this billion profits that we make with traffic, when we buy with them and carry money there, go abroad. So, from this profit of trade, our social state doesn't have much or nothing. And when you say that workers have to be satisfied, I completely agree. Yesterday, we even had the last line of people who said that the essence of their dissatisfaction with this profession was to force them to work on Sundays. To work twelve, thirteen days in a row, to be mentally and physically exhausted, to be more frequent injuries, to be more frequent infirmities, to have no time for family, friends, to themselves, and to end up with a lot of early disability. And the last thing about the referendum; the referendum asked if people agreed to shut down trade, with the exception of no to ten weeks a year. The real question was whether or not you agree to the closing of trades by opening up to ten weeks a year. Not ten, but ten, which means nothing to ten. By closing them down, we are within this referendum will, and at the same time, what you have already said, I think we have set enough exceptions that are normal in other countries that regulate trading hours on Sundays so that all consumers can meet their needs at that time. Smaller stores will be opened, gas services will be opened, shops will be opened at traffic hubs such as bus stations, shops will be opened in hospitals, trade will be opened at border crossings and so on. In short, if you need a store on Sunday, you can have it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr. Marco Bandelli has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u60	Thank you, Madam President. No, because I understand your position, I understand your people, because you can't get out of this, either, logically, but don't tell me about the company and the big companies that make what profits on Sunday. In Slovenia, 70% of employees are in micro and small enterprises. These aren't strangers, these are our people, our people. 70% of employees. This is the data of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and don't tell me that no, because I think a friend, I know what I'm saying. All right, and here, it's called that people should be protected. We need to protect these craftsmen and give them a chance if they want them to be open to them. It's going to be done, but now we've changed things around here about the referendum and all that. I'll leave it in the other one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Now I owe you another correction. Mr. Horvath was so kind that he informed me that we had been here since 29. 6. on the website, instructions have been published that masks, protective masks are mandatory. Thank you very much, Member, so I propose that we all use them. Now we continue the debate. Mr. Gregor Perič has his word, but prepare yourself a mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u62	Yes, thank you, nice greeting. I've always thought the problem was pay, so the height of wages. Today we find that the problem is that it works on Sundays. So since the problem is this week, we're going to close this store obviously, and we're going to solve all these problems here. So I'm very skeptical that traders will be happy that this will solve all their problems. On the contrary, I think we're going to talk again quickly about issues and we're going to have the same problems back on the table. What bothers me most about all this debate is that, because someone ideologically or from other motives does not like some large systems and sees them as some capitalist colossus, where there are some enormous profits created, is ready to subdue their ideological winged all those small social entrepreneurs or independent entrepreneurs who have been working for many years, who are responding to all their assets, who have invested a lot of their energy and time to do business, who have employees, and who understand that if you are working within such a small team that you can also call a family company, you have to pay them very well to keep them in order to keep them motivated and in such businesses, we have also talked to many of them, because they are also appropriately better and above averagely paid and happy to work on Sundays. You won't believe it, but they are. Why they weren't there yesterday, or I don't know how you chose union representatives, but, as it is said, there are also such companies and also such employees who are happy to work on Sunday because they know why they work and are better paid for it. So, the problem, as I say, is not Sunday, but the amount of payment. And if we don't talk about it, we've made a big mistake and today we're making one very big mistake. On the one hand we have Italy, on the other hand we have Croatia. I'm sure on the coast, in Primorska, we'll take advantage of these opportunities. They will also be used by the Austrians. And speaking of Germany today, Germany is in trouble, even though it has a lot of money, it has a lot of economic power. The Germans have reduced VAT in order to encourage consumption to stimulate the economy. And you won't believe it. They're also talking about having stores open on Sundays. Well, we're smarter than everyone else. What will be the consequences of these measures, and I think we will see very soon. And I'm not signing under them. But you will accept responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Proposer, please. You have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u64	I would like to reiterate that in opposition to large companies, we want to trample on the tamales. That's a long way from the truth. Small businesses, as far as they are concerned in the trade sector, have succumbed to large traders. The big merchants are the ones who ate the tamales and no one else. You probably all remember from, I don't know, 20, 25 years ago we had a number of small shops in Slovenian places, which are now gone because all traffic, all consumption, all customers moved to large centres. They ate up small businesses. And secondly, this law is going in the opposite direction. While large businesses and shopping centres should not be allowed to be opened, small traders will be able to do so on Sundays.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Meira Hot, get ready, Mrs. Monica Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u66	Thank you, Madam Vice President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! So, seems like a very simple question, are you in favour of closing trade on Sundays? The vast majority say yes, and we have been waiting since 2003 for the referendum will to take place. If we read why it all started, I can only attach to my colleague Perič, the question was, the height of the allowance for work on Sundays and holidays. And since the social dialogue did not work at the time, with strong political support the union decided and carried out a preliminary legislative referendum and there a large majority of citizens and citizens, 58%, decided to support the closure of trade. And even today, when public opinion polls are being conducted, especially when surveys are being conducted between traders and traders, it is a very clear will to close these trades on Sundays. Of course, it's always a matter of fair pay. And I really hope that my colleagues will continue to fight very hard for this. But when you listen to the merchants who tell you that they're so exhausted, so much under stress, 12 are constantly working without a break, and that in this context money doesn't matter anymore, then you see that we really got to the edge. And that this is one of the key issues, namely the question of solidarity between society. There was a lot of talk about this "yes, but we will also close the inn" and, as a colleague has already mentioned, the Association of Restaurant Workers and Tourism of Slovenia supports closing trades on Sundays. They say and quote: "Although in hospitality and tourism it is working time every day of the week, we know these feelings very well, but we are also aware that tourism is a specific sector. It does not seem right to us that where work can be arranged differently, it would not be arranged" and this is crucial. So it is not an urgent need for trade on Sunday; it can be arranged differently there and we propose it today. We corrected in a certain part about small traders because we have heard them in this context and because we believe that there is absolutely a difference between large and small traders. Large shopping centres have had extremely harmful effects on individual local communities. The fact is that the city's cores have emptied themselves, that trade has moved away, that there has simply been no more demand, and that in this way the city's cores have died, and that the local communities have had to invest extremely much energy in re-establishing these cores. Huge, a lot of work has been put into this. On the beach in Piran we had to give, I don't know, a reduction in the rent for societies in order to re-open, revitalize, for example, a city core and enrich it with a tourist offer. And in this context, tourism would also point to the indications of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, when it says, quote: "In addition, open trade is crucial for supporting the development of tourism on Sundays." They are, but small shops, shops, for example, where you can get some local products, souvenirs, I don't know, local things, but not megastores or I can tell you a concrete example – in downtown Portorož a few years ago when Mercator replaced the owner, they decided that Mercator would be open by 11:00 p.m. or even midnight. This meant a remarkable blow to tourism and hospitality, why? Because it was cheaper to go five steps forward and buy whole warm food there, than to go to restaurants and inn, for example, with high costs, rents and so on and so on. So the direct effect of this was that the local community, that residents and residents wrote petitions and asked “give me a shorter schedule”, and of course the municipality could not do so at all because it does not have this right. I mean, trade in this context can have an extremely negative impact on tourism, it's the opposite. While the small traders that we have actually captured with this amendment absolutely generate a positive effect, they enrich the tourist offer and are, of course, welcome. And it's usually for carriers, for independent entrepreneurs, for micro, small businesses, where the vast majority of people who carry activities actually work there themselves. And we've really made sure that whoever wants to work here works. While in big stores I don't know that any employer would even sit down and, I don't know, replace some kind of shop. So here we have secured the right of workers and workers to Sunday rest, and on the other hand we have enabled those who want to work to exercise this right. In this way, I think that we have really achieved some balance and, in fact, quite rarely in this context, we really are following more goals in this way. So we did not limit the free economic initiative so much that the Constitutional Court ruled that it was not proportionate and justified and, on the other hand, allowed a consistent exercise of the right to Sunday's rest for traders and traders. Therefore, it does not seem right for me to talk about how we today are out of our minds when we accept this, how we will destroy economic systems, state systems, and I do not know what else. Because if I am not mistaken at this point, however, there is still a ruling in force, i.e. one sub-law prohibiting the sale of goods and services and where they still do not work on Sundays. And I think the economic system is still standing, and it's still working. However, given the adopted anti-Korona packages, it may not have been as severe a blow as we are now listening to or I do not understand why then SMC's representatives will not see to it that this decision is resolved in this context and at least these small trades will open to which it would really be important that they are working today at the peak of the tourist season. You offered tourist vouchers, but at the same time prevented individual tourists from spending money on another day. So, you've closed down their small stores, but where you should do it, you don't want to do it, and that's why from this point of view it's really unreasonable for me. The amendment you have proposed has, in my opinion, met the whole purpose of the law. You speak again, I think by ten weeks a year it would work, but in short this amendment is only made so that everything we've done in all this time is done to get around this way and, of course, I won't support it in any way. And I'd like to add to the student work and the work of the pensioners. We absolutely support him, of course we support him, but now I really don't understand one thing. So on the one hand, these merchants have students who, as we heard yesterday, pay better than the average merchant who has, now I quote what we heard yesterday, EUR 5 gross per hour, while the average student in this business has 8 euros per hour. You're saying you'll have mass pardons, but at the same time you want to keep your student work. I don't understand. I don't do one with the other. I just can't do it. Unless it is once again the purpose of bypassing the provisions we want to enforce by this law and in fact forcing traders and traders to renounce their fundamental rights for fear of losing their jobs. So I don't support this amendment either. Thank you very much. Of course, I apologize, but of course I support the bill and I will be very happy to support it today.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Monika Gregorčič, Mr Franz Kramar is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I am convinced that the closure or regulation of Sunday's work should by no means be the subject of legal matter, but this must be left to the dialogue of the social partners, as has been the case so far. Everyone before me on behalf of the proposer or advocates of this law refers to a referendum 17 years ago, but this solution, which is before us today in the law, does not answer the referendum question because it allowed the opening of trades 10 weeks a year. This bill does not allow for a week. I should agree on Sunday's work, according to my assessment, that is to say, social partners, trade unions on the one hand that should, I hope, pursue the interest of fair pay for the work done and, on the other hand, between traders, who, of course, pursue their business interests, must take into account the dynamics of the market and of course the consumer's preferences. Now let's be honest with ourselves, I'm sure each of us has already been shopping on Sunday, if not, please say so and come forward and admit that you are really an exception from the exception. The law that is before us today, if adopted, will be a big mistake. Because of the epidemic, trade activity, especially its non-food part, has already suffered about a quarter of the decline in its turnover in the first months, and I think it is clear that even if work is allowed on Sundays, it will not be possible to make up for it by the end of the year. Many Members have already said before me that this law limits the constitutionally guaranteed free economic initiative. It is also highly unfair because it causes market anomalies, unfair competition and unequal market position and inequality before the law because the exceptions in this law are extremely selective and allow extra profits for all those who have managed to be included among these exceptions. What is also a negative consequence is the outflow of purchasing power abroad, which will be much larger than just a flow of consumption on other days of the week. This is shown by calculations, projections, data, chambers of commerce of Slovenia and I think that this is much more reliable than some opinion of beer colleagues in the local buffet. Only to complete the comparison with certain European countries. If this law is adopted today, we will be included in that minority of more conservative European countries with restrictions on work, Sunday's trade. Otherwise, I can understand my colleagues on the right political level either defending or following some principle that Sunday is gentlemen's day. I do not understand in any way the support of this law that liberal parties can defend this, but I understand even less the colleagues on the left, especially the proposer, who, in essence, by this law is a literal class struggle on the shoulders of traders and traders employed in trade activities. In the end, they will be the ones who will feel the negative consequences. In the form of reduced income, they will not get any extras for Sunday work. [[sign for the end of the debate]] and a number of their jobs will be compromised, so that we cannot support this in the SMC, but we are just defending the reverse right to work for traders without losing this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Franz Kramar. Mr. Ducky, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. At first, I say that, of course, I will gladly support this law, and I will also support the amendment. In fact, why — now a colleague in front of me said that because of the epidemic, the merchants had lower incomes, but that is not true. They were doing the whole epidemic because it was never closed. But it's true, it's been closed for weeks. Weeks were closed and no one was upset that it would be unconstitutional, illegal, anti-economic, but they were just doing it. I'm not saying that when I got the information that wholesalers made more than a billion profits last year, one wonders why this profit was not shared among employees as well. We must be aware that employees in trade – most of them have a minimum wage, of course, now there is a 100 per cent profit on Sundays, which, according to my survey among traders, is not true. 30% of them, the employer paid them more. I'm also sure they'll actually be able to work on Sundays. After all, on Sundays, it is time to – now I will say in Gorenjski – fill in my bets to prepare for Monday and, above all, I am convinced by the fact that all the Western world, particularly Switzerland, have been so regulated for a while that trade is closed and therefore the capital owners are no longer affected. Why the amendment – the amendment mainly from the point of view that these small shops up to 200 sq.m. are either leased or owned by small entrepreneurs, to which Sunday, of course, brings a great deal, especially in tourist areas, where this is also part of the tourist offer and it is right that some shop is also open and these small shops are based on the existence of these tenants or owners, so that this amendment is very welcome. In the end, if I didn't have a debt, I'd ask you again to abolish the decree. I do not see the point of my ruling in my behaviour that it is still valid, given the fact that the epidemic was lifted and that this decree actually hampers the fact that trade and trade can be closed on Sundays. This is another piece of information, so that there is no problem if the stores themselves are closed on Sundays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs. Gregorčič has the replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u72	Yes, I just want to give an explanation to Mr. Kramar. Non-food trade was closed during the epidemic and was not allowed to operate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u73	Thank you very much. They've exhausted the list of applicants. I see there's still interest, so I'm opening a new application. We have six reported debaters, the first gets the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Get ready, Mr. Jani Ivanuša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We will support this marriage. I'm not going to explain for long, but I'm sure you all agree, not that we are now boasting anything about this, that this is our story, New Slovenia's story, which will be full-year-old next year when it's 18 years old. I'm not going to talk about the referendum issue at the time. Today would probably be different. Why? Since after 18 years only the company develops and perhaps the shopping standards are slightly different, and above all the offer. Here I want to make it very clear that New Slovenia always supports good proposals in the National Assembly regardless of whether it is the opposition or whether it is in coalition and independent of the proposer. Many are now telling us, that is to say, evil-intentioned to compact with Levica, see, we are either political competition or rather political opponents, but we are here in the democratic National Assembly. We have estimated that these solutions are good, with the amendments adopted yesterday, we have improved them by our taste and will continue to do so. This is not a coalition or government law, so I am glad that coalition partners understand us if we have a slightly different position here than the entire coalition. Although we will still be able to see and analyse the final vote. Economic logic is based on the fact that, even with longer working hours, the population does not change the structure of consumption and spend about the same amount of money available in trade. I hope we agree on this point here. However, it must be recognised objectively, it is true that in most countries, at the time of the recession, there is a tendency to prolong trade working hours and thus encourage consumption. But where Slovenia now belongs, whether it belongs more to ordinary countries than the German Council or slightly more liberal countries, I think we belong more to the culture of countries than in Germany, Austria, Switzerland and so on, where we know what the regime is. We regret, underline and hope that I may speak on behalf of the entire coalition, we regret that the Economic and Social Council has not reached an agreement. At the first reading of this law, we invited them. I spoke to Minister Janez Cigler King, who is the President of the Economic and Social Council and he deplored the communication or the minutes of the Economic and Social Council meeting held on 17.6. where the following conclusion was made: the Economic and Social Council has not adopted a common position on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Trade Act. Would it be fair for the National Assembly to wait for them, how much time, we are also not competent to tell them to see, by then and then we are waiting for you, then the flag falls and we move on. This option has been, and has been, and unfortunately, unfortunately, I do not regret this agreement, that the policy must now lock or unlock the doors of trade, but there will be no drama, there will be no tragedy, there will be lots of trade, there will be trade on Sundays, there will be many open doors, there will also be family businesses, as shown in the amended bill. It is also clear to us that we, who are the voice of the economy in the National Assembly, are what now. Look, we're defending the socio-market model of the economy. Yes, we defend those capitalists, if you want, in Slovenia, who say "My biggest capital is people, they are my employees, they are my team". So much for that, and I hope we understand each other. And in this context, I conclude the following. I have to apologize for believing that this marriage will hurt those who buy them a ritual on Sundays. Of course I don't belong there, I'm most happy if I don't have to go to the store. Thank God I have a wife who has a fantastic price review and so on and very rationally acquires what needs to be obtained. But in terms of our orientation, I think we are a very consumer-oriented society, and in this context, when we are talking about consumption, I would also set up the data published by the SURS for 2018 and say that in 2018, every citizen of Slovenia threw up on average, ladies and gentlemen, 68 kilograms of food. Of these, 38 % is edible. Of course, the rest are shells, shells, and so on, which of course is not edible. This is information that I am deeply concerned about, which means that they still have to, but this is certainly not the job of the legislator now, only a recommendation if I can not be attacked again because of this, so I believe that most people are doing so in spite of everything, very rationally supplying food. This is a fantastic number, which, of course, if you multiply it, there are 140 thousand tons of discarded food. 140 thousand tons. And that this quantity rose by 4% in relation to the previous year, 2017. In this context too, these matters need to be put in place. And perhaps once again in the distant future, when I am gone, it will certainly not be necessary for this law to be dealt with by the national assembly, because technology will surely have to and is already substantially changing the business model of trade. I'd rather not worry about spending money and gas, sorry, money, of course, time, energy and gasoline for every week or every 14 I drive 5 or 10 liters of milk and those constant food items. Why, if we have, in the near future, already exist, but smart refrigerators, who will order their own food? And the new business model will just deliver it to me and I will automatically pay for it. It's ridiculous to drive to some hypermarkets, even at the time of the epidemic, instead of getting the product from the store to the house, because the buyer is the king. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša has the following word. Get ready, Mr. Michael Prevc. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador. It's a microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I just don't know what to say in 53 seconds. The marriage is complex, but whatever. Our views, we insist on our position that we have always been the initiators of a free economic initiative. That's what they asked me yesterday. What does that mean? This means that we do not need the law to essentially let each store decide for itself whether it will open on Sunday or not. Purely simple, purely simple and simple. Unfortunately, that's not the case. We just need to get married. Otherwise, we Slovenians don't know how to act. That's it. Of course, times do not allow such a law to be supported because this coronation will continue until the new year or beyond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc, Mr Primož Siter is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! After all this debate that we have heard today, I am sure that today is the day when the will of voters is being realized in the referendum 17 years ago, when as many as 300,000 voters at that time and 57% of them agreed with the question or the solution that trade should be closed on Sundays. I must say that for us, for New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, the first person and not the capital and family life for New Slovenia – Christian Democrats are more important than a free business initiative. That is why, of course, we supported this proposal at the time, and not least we were the initiators of this proposal before the referendum, and, of course, we support this proposal for the closing of trade on Sundays even today, regardless of who the applicant is. Yesterday we were on the work force, at least I was interested in listening to those who on Sundays still feel the difficulties of this Sunday’s work and how they miss that Sunday rest and some normal family life on Sundays. We have also heard that most of the employees asked in the store are employees, that the opinion that it would be right to have closed the shops on Sundays and I also found it interesting that the higher wages on Sundays do not mean much and far away do not mean Sunday rest and that they could spend Sunday in their family circle. With the amendment we adopted yesterday on the working body, when we included owners of shops up to 200 square metres in the closure of trade on Sundays, we have given, I am sure, a significantly greater opportunity for small entrepreneurs to sell their own products in tourist areas. And that's why, of course, we supported this amendment. Today, a number of questions have been raised as to whether this time is appropriate for the adoption of this law. Of course, opinions are different. The Chamber of Commerce warned us yesterday that this time was not appropriate, especially from an economic point of view. It is our view, however, that, given that by Sunday's trade at this time due to the epidemic, we have been closed down in one way or another, that the buyers have already become so accustomed that this transition will, in fact, be the easiest at this point. Once again, in New Slovenia we will support this law. Unfortunately, however, we cannot support the SMC amendment, especially because we feel that this amendment is a deviation from the basic purpose of the law, which implies closing trade on Sundays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčič would like to talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure. You have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Yes, Madam President, please tell Mr Prevc not to lie or deceive people. He said 58% of voters voted in favour of the law. The referendum was attended by 27.54% of voters, 57.5% of whom voted in favour, which means that about 14% of Slovenian voters voted in favour of this referendum decision, not 58%. It is not fair for Parliament to talk about incorrect data for certain purposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u81	Mr Jelinčič, this is how I will begin; it is not fair for you, as a long-standing Member, to abuse the procedural proposal to comment on the debate of the previous debater. The outcome of the referendum is not material on the use of the Rules of Procedure. I warned you at the outset that you would talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure, so let us leave this warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u82	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u83	Thank you. It's been brought to your attention. We continue the debate. Mr Primož Siter has the following word, and Mr Boštjan Koražija is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u84	Yes, thank you beautiful president, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! I personally have to express my enthusiasm. I'm glad we have this marriage proposal on the table today. I am pleased to see that, despite other parliamentary mathematics, this kind of support and that everything shows that the National Assembly will support and accept it. But I am even more impressed by the fact that, in fact, we do not have just one legislative issue ahead of us, but that in fact, we have a civilisational issue or solution to one of the civil puzzles that we have encountered in recent years. Unfortunately, at the same time, I note that these things have been discussed between socialists and labour fighters since the good hundred years ago. The weekend was the first time in history to face a working class battle in 1908 with the same arguments, with the same arguments as we have on the table today. On the one hand, however, there is labour solidarity and the right to rest, which is an integral part of each work process and, on the other hand, counter-arguments, which were the same as those that we are listening to today, especially from SMC colleagues. The arguments that we've been listening to when we were fighting to raise the minimum wage, that the system would fail, that if the real higher minimum wages were to be paid, if the weekend Frej would collapse, everyone would lose their jobs, businesses would lose their liquidity and so on and so on. This true history is actually repeated, what has been talked about, or what has responded to these same calls in 1908, is still true today. Therefore, from this title of civil progress, I am mainly asking the question of where we want as a society, not as a political floor, but as a wider society. We want to move forward or we want to go back and what we understand as the main factor or parameter in measuring social progress. It's money, it's capital, it's GDP growth, it's economic growth, or there are other factors that decide whether or not the company prospers and progresses. Let's say pleasure, let's say free time, although even in the first argument, it would be either a factor or an economic growth, money or economic growth, capital, a major factor, we saw at this time of the epidemic, when trade remained closed even on Sundays, that there was no problem here. The data show that sales of food products increased by a low 2% at the time of the epidemic. So this argument also falls. But anyway, even if we take something other than money for some parameter measuring civil progress or the success of society, it makes sense to look at things to pour ourselves pure wine. Now, there has been some debate about what kind of luxury we Members are actually operating with and how difficult it is to decide from this position of a secure job with a good pay, with good working conditions, with a guaranteed weekend on a group of people who do not have the privilege of saying so, although I am sorry to say so, they do not have it. I served long years before entering this parliamentary assignment, 20 years as well as as a radio leader, and you can imagine, radio leaders are people working night and day from Friday to sunday, Monday to Sunday, and I in 20 years, hand to heart, couldn't plan a single weekend in peace, not a single weekend, without having any logistical problems reorganising this work process, calling the employees, organising this and that, every other week I spent away from the family, and I understand a little bit. Well, I warn you, I didn't do any physical hard work here, I was doing a job that I was glad to do, which encouraged me to grow up and do everything that I love, that we might like to brag about. Now I am trying to translate this into working conditions that we heard about on the committee yesterday, when workers and union representatives themselves testified about why they support what we have on the table today. Why does it matter to them that they're at least one day a week and it's Sunday, dude? When I read a crowd of letters of support for workers and workers in trade for this proposal, one of them sat down, allow me to read it: "When I was more than," says the worker: "When I started working in the store more than 30 years ago they were not working. It was a week off faster than expected, because you knew you could relax and enjoy your family for a day a week. We had picnics, we drove to the sea or in nature, or we hung out at home. Every Sunday we were together, even in the ministry we had a wonderful time, and everything was done in a good mood. Then,” continues the worker: “they introduced the weeks.” And then she explains what Sunday actually means in her weekly schedule or in life. And it's not the only witness or the only letter of support. All the testimonies are filled with resentment that people do not have time for family, do not have time, as this worker says, for picnics, do not have time for vacations, as is arranged, to face disability, as a result of hard work in the workplace, that the work they are given is excessive, that it is too much and that these people are too little, and that at the end of the stage they also witness statistics on the lack of human resources in trade at the moment. And now, all that, if we read all these testimonies, and if I serve you my own, my own experience from the mandatory work on Sundays, it seems to me that this is such a medal close to what happened yesterday, if you're careful, on the work committee. First, two workers signed up for the word, one from Mercator and one from Spara. Why? Because then you had to go to work. Because they work in such a working environment that not two or three extra hours of time could be reserved for quality participation in the debate in the National Assembly. They had to go to work. Therefore, I would like to focus on my support for this working movement, which is based on this proposal, to say whether, in support of this proposal, it has also happened, which has cried out and stepped on the side of these people who work on Sundays, on Saturdays that work after 12 hours, 12 days in a piece and then have two days, two days of friys that do not have this luxury of a regular weekend that can not yet come to the National Assembly and wait in peace until the end of the debate. That's why. That is why I will fully support this law, but I cannot support the amendment proposed by Members and Members of the SMC, because it simply opposes the substantive anchor of what the original law proposes, this is a social part of closed trade, this step against the realization of the most basic labour right in 2020, which is the right to rest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Boštjan Koražija has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u86	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. It is interesting to hear today in the debate that in fact Members who have recently interpreted so much in a vehement manner here in the National Assembly and have praised our merchants and merchants for all that they have said and praised loudly today. Look, the fact is, merchants and merchants, sellers, sellers were in the first battles when we were, I'll say, the most necessary aid or even this destructive behavior by traders and traders. It is said that they have literally risked their lives and also the lives of their children, their families, because you know well and you are constantly repeating yourself, and that is unfortunately a fact, the coronary virus can unfortunately also be deadly. And at the beginning, when we went to the store, we all saw these merchants and merchants who were working without protective medical equipment, and I have to admit that I was most moved by the fact that when you looked the shops in the eye and you saw this fear, this uncertainty that she was actually prepared and actually sacrificed herself for it, for the social good, for the better, but at the same time she was thinking about her children, her family and her parents. I'm sorry, this guy does literally cut him in half, literally. And a lot of people have trusted me, too, but I'm not going to explain this to you here in the National Assembly because it's private business. And look, I don't know, SMC, I have to admit they've been acting like SDS on steroids lately, sorry. You're actually a replica, a replica, a replica of SDS. And then I don't know what's going on at four. See, what is also after what Mr. Prevc previously explained, I like very much when explaining, because things simply explain very directly and very correctly, indeed. [[Incomprehensible]] I will also dare to say, and I will also say that you have supported this proposal, that you still have some upright attitude and that you are not only in this coalition as some pendant, but you are a single unit. And if you keep doing that, you'll keep showing it. While certain parties have literally merged, one of you has already become quite a part of something, as said by Mr or Fellow Member Trček, yellow-headed. See, the matter is such that even yesterday, when we were on the Committee on the Economy, which I constantly repeat and assert and defend, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is not only the National Assembly of 90 Members, who are sitting here and sometimes politically correct and unfairly arguing, but it is the National Assembly of All Citizens and Citizens of Slovenia and all the inhabitants of Slovenia. But to have one dare to rise above the Constitution over the state and over the citizens and the citizens and then literally pour manure upon them or even, I will say what, when a person listens to it, these debates as if you are laughing. Look, the fact is, you, I'm gonna say it again, these people were in the front row, in the front row, and they literally sacrificed their lives. Literally. If you don't understand this, we're going to prepare these shops that are my friends, where they're going to sit here and tell you a story and maybe one day you're going to think or think about it, and they're also self-reflecting, because I think that's exactly what this National Assembly really needs, some self-reflection, literally, and recycling. Because look, we're constantly talking about constitutional matters and you're constantly explaining and speaking against constitutional things. We are here in the National Assembly to protect workers and workers. You protected them, the government? The first few days when they needed medical equipment? You're not. I wore my own cover masks to hide them. Mostly, it's crazy. And then you act like you're some kind of savior, some angels because you're not. [[Incomprehensible]] You can become angels, you can also be told from NSI, but an angel to become an angel, you have to earn it, not imagine that you are and that you are a savior. Because you didn't. It's a fact. Yesterday we are also on this committee of these stories, which have been told by these traders and also by traders or representatives of these, including the union. Really, I mean, heart-breaking stuff. And also what Comrade Siter mentioned earlier, in fact, that they can tell the truth, must be sacrificed nonstop. Is that right? That they could come to say those pairs of sentences and that were very painful and the heart was maturing, they had to give up, and in my opinion, they also honestly told me about the many times they were ruling after the stores, they risked a lot. A lot of risk. And in fact, even when we talk about these things, when we talk about that it really wouldn't be just that they deserve this Sunday, that it's a day off, and that they also spend it with their families, their families and things, the problem is in fact that traders and traders are exploited in Slovenia. First of all, they work in very poor working conditions, they get miserable wages and my personal not desire, I will work specifically on that then, and hopefully today we will allow them to have a Sunday as a day off, to follow this finally increase in their wages. Because it's easy to do that yesterday, as they explained, they actually get minimum supplements, minimum supplements for Sunday work. In fact, the minimum wage, which is not even a minimum wage, is cancelled only so that they can rest and be able to be with their own domestics. Let's just imagine ourselves over ourselves for a while. Hello, people, come on. I keep listening to some stories and instead of constantly talking in favor of people, in favor of nature, in favor of animals, they're constantly against. If it's not against the Constitution, you, I don't know what it is. Yes, of course, I will support the law of course, and even in Levica you can be a hundred percent, two hundred percent, thousand percent, that we will work forward to also regulate these working conditions for these traders and traders and wages to move forward. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Yes, because someone else wants to discuss it, please apply. Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. That's what my friend Korazi said. Now, ever since I left the Left, you've been developing more and more, and it's a good thing I went. Now, the last task of Members and Members of Parliament is to insult the people who are actually giving us bread. You know, yesterday we had that session about RTV, Marko, we knocked until the early hours of the morning, and including the minister, he insulted over 2,000 people, and part of SDS knew himself, I'm gonna say what I have at the end of my tongue, like some falange and at the same time as the biggest media experts. I'm waiting for you to open a fax to sign up as a freshman. We must protect both work and entrepreneurship. Or if you want to be in another language, some honest business. Now I do not have 30 years of experience like Marko, but I have 6 years of experience starting up a family company in Kranjska Gora, a combination of tourism, trade, restaurant, renting each other. And I have to admit that I did a little bit with my left-wing pubs, and I like them like my own kids, too, because sometimes I felt as much like I did with the filling, that in particular in the red musket I see the communists, these young left-wings in everyone who owns something see the capitalist. I used to say to Mihu Kordiš "Madona, if there were half as many capitalists in Slovenia as you see, our GDP would be twice as high as Austrian. But you know, in the store, if you don't have an extra position with a location, with a monopoly or some such extra, exclusive goods in a retail store, there's no crazy profits. Now half if you're small, you see, our entry price of a bike you just had to have there when you rented bikes, and when you knew you probably wouldn't even sell it, it was, of course, higher than the retail price in Intersport or Hervis, which is, of course, logically, economies of scale. Now what is the original sin or the original question you know in all societies is one of the worst-paid works. I've been reading McDonald's employee turnover 300 percent in the U.S. for years now, which means four months there, you can hold out, and half the time you run away maximum. Now the original sin of talking about these stories is basically two and they're both connected to the stupid policy of the last 30 years. One is the question but maybe we have too many stalls, the other is the issue of purchasing power. Of course, you need some purchasing power first so you can go to the stable. You can't just go all the way to the cretaceous. Or in the language that everyone will understand, you need the answers to the questions that I've been trying to make with my head against the wall, and you're introducing specializations into the strategy. The global connected world is cruel, we are 2 million rather brilliant people and the task of politics is to ask what we will do to tell those who are not Marxist provenances, that could be sold at some better prices, so that the added value to the employee will be higher. I come from Styria's work, 10,000 euros is the average of us as the Slovenian average. Now my narrow profession is, of course, spatial sociology, is urban development, urbanism, planning, urban governance. But you know, if we were to introduce in Slovenia, I don't know, but in this Maribor there will be so many photocopiers, so many hairdressers, so much of that, so much of the uneasiness, you'll say that it's unconstitutional that it's an attack on the end of the world. The Constitutional Court probably would have blown that up, too. Where else is France normal? It's just as normal for Berlin as it is for maximum rents. Therefore, of course, those who work can survive this activity, because if there are too many of us, we will go to the bottom with some dumping and unfair competition. Of course, we also have a problem with seasonality that you need to understand. Here you go, buddy Kramar from the goddess's end. You've got a month or so when you're not paying for your current business, you've got to take that into account. Now some stories – students, pensioners, up, down, look, my personal opinion is, the work of students is students and students. And we should set the thresholds for this primary activity to be devoted to. As a perfox, of course, I had students who came to me, and they told her, Professor, but I could do that. What the hell. He said yes, look, I have a good night shift, they pay me well, I don't know, mom on hold, dad doesn't pay, up, down. But you know, they're very diverse stories. Of course, we cannot limit the pensioners if they want to work, but the pensioners have made sure that we have some standard that we have and enjoy that pension. Let them enjoy life. And you know, I think he's thinking a little bit about the ground. I would like to see the number and stacs and employees in the store decrease, and it will also partly be because of what Jozko said earlier, so that we can go to the Italian model Marko was talking about. To think, for example, about some of the local supply chains, where you'd probably have, say, if you had this 8 or 7-hour worker, the one who was in the stall could have had more in the bag. [[Incomprehensible]] This kind of thing. And of course, it's a policy task to think about this transition where these people would be employed. I've been here for six years, something that can't generate less than 400 euros gross in Slovenia should not be done within economic activity. We have that kind of community infrastructure that we need to co-finance and maintain budgetaryly. You know, and these are the themes that are beyond these goodies of one and the other that we are now going down to. You know, I've been watching this a little bit, I haven't been on the boards, after a representative of employers kind of says, quite vehemently, yes, look, almost j, so it's known, so it's in the shop, so many of you are on the stock market, if not you, you'll be second. I don't want to come up with any kind of unconstitutionality, because at first I thought someone was right when these foreign traders came in, I don't know, mostly women's traders. When you've got menstrual days to let you go, I don't know, three or four times in the bathroom, or you can just go to the bathroom in eight hours. And we have some inspectorates like that and some other inspectorates, and they don't do that. Or maybe if I came to some barn, and I didn't like to walk around, and that food was throwing in there like, I don't know, I'd throw my ears out at my grandmother's tree. And that's some kind of system violence. Here I also agree with a slightly more radical left. This should actually be seen and dealt with by politicians. As Meira has already said, basic logic, of course, will be supported by the law by the Social Democrats, but we will not support some amendments that are typically medium-centred duplicity that we would like to make up for, and then some lady here will send us a sense of how conservative or not conservative I am. In Kordish's years, you have to be, here, not Miha again, like Miha, so that you can then be, at my age or in Yokoto's, a noble conservator. That's not what I remembered, and luckily I'm moving in the direction of noble conservativeism. I hope, however, that the SMC is moving in a direction that will no longer be Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u90	President, thank you for your word. I say hello to everyone! Since you're all talking about storks, I think I'd lean a little bit of my pot to it, but I probably won't say anything new, especially what I think on my part is right to say. First, I must say that I will personally support this law. In particular, because I believe that Slovenian families, including those employed in the store, deserve to be free within seven days. And that would be called Christian Democrats on the Lord's Day. Whether it's Sunday or, of course, it's for a state holiday. You know, now that this health crisis was an opportunity, I took advantage of the opportunity to visit the center of our congregation, which has about 11,000 inhabitants, and only towns around 3 000 200, and perhaps some more than 3 thousand 200. From the very beginning, when the shopping malls began to build largely in Slovenia, we got all kinds of shopping centres in Ljutomer. There are no steel cavalry there on Sundays, but they are so much more common on Saturdays. And if the family can't plan on buying in six days for seven days, then there's something wrong with the family. But for me, family is the base cell that I really respect, and I want this cell to have at least one day off in seven days. As far as Slovenians are concerned, that depends on a lot of things. Someone earlier said that we work seven and a half hours a day, no, because countries where work in the European Union are already significantly smaller. If we're productive, seven and a half hours is enough. But the vats for measuring some standards in Western countries are different in Slovenia. I am very sorry that the socio-economic world has not formed a unified opinion, because then it would be significantly easier for us. Look, the time has been a referendum, no matter what the Victory Tribal Jelinčič said, 57% of the voters have made the decision. How many went to the referendum was the second question, but they did not go and leave the decision in the hands of others. In the law itself, and I have to say this, I think it's too much, that there's too much of an exception, and you know what can happen to us if someone complains to the Constitutional Court, that this case is going to fall down on us because of these exceptions. I wouldn't do so many if I wrote the law. There will never be a time, dear and respected, to enforce this law, whether this year, the second year, or 10 years ago, there will never be a good time, and those who are advocates for trading on Sunday will certainly not say in any way that it is a good time. But the polite question is also reward, and tell them that I also spoke in Ljubljana with some merchants who in some ways said that they do not even have a minimum wage, that they have to be paid minimum wages, that they can get it, and that is worrying. Plus how much in the store work of students and of course foreign workers who came to Slovenia to serve their bread. The number of employees will not fall, in any case, I am almost certain that the number will remain at the same level as before, the safe volume of sales will increase on Friday and Saturday, and in no case will the sales fall as some claim and thus consumption will be significantly lower, not because people will get used to the way they will be available. Of course, unfortunately we will regulate this with the law, but we could arrange this in a more elegant way than I mentioned before, here is the Economic and Social Council, we could arrange for trade unions and representatives of companies, but they won't even agree that one centre in one place would be open one week, then another and so on, it would also be one possible solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. We have discussed Sunday work many times in the past, and I would also like to make it very clear that in health care, when they talk about night work or work over the weekend, they talk about on-call work, so they are about a way of working that is not standard and that is being avoided in some way in certain sectors already. Remember, doctors on duty don't usually operate, they only provide emergency services. Slovenian trade has experienced its development in Slovenia over the past 20 years, primarily at the expense of cities. Trade centers have destroyed a number of cities. On Sundays, trading chains earn more by selling more than on Monday and Tuesday together. And of course, these are things that also start the city's cores, the city centers, and essentially these facts call for things to be redefined. In the center of Maribor we have lost the fashion house, the first department store in the city, many empty bars, smaller traders and in fact we have to take measures to protect the weak from the big ones and, of course, this bill goes in this direction. And, of course, I will support him very much. The second issue, which is very important and which has never been addressed correctly, is wages for work in less favourable conditions. All these supplements eventually turn out to be bizarre if a worker gets ten or twenty euros on Sunday at the end of the day, I think they should get at least 300% more, and then probably everyone on the list should want to do business on Sundays. But look, even in our neighborhood on Sunday shop, supermarkets aren't open. Trade centres are generally open up to six, not until nine, and this is of course a matter that affects the quality of life. But I think it's a proposal from my colleagues from the SMC, and I'll tell you, I don't think it's wrong to make pensioners, too. [[sign for the end of the debate]] and made it possible for the students to work. Here I would like to stress that just look at a number of bakeryes that are somehow owned by the family and work all day. There, after this proposal, I could only work so far by saying one owner, but no family members, but for example, it is a family business and I think that one such amendment would continue to pursue the purpose of the law and [[sign for the end of the debate]] and essentially made it possible to operate these small shops. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u94	Thank you so much for the president's word. I am extremely glad that, after seventeen years, the time has finally come to respect the will of the people. In Novi Slovenija, I would like to stress this in particular, we proposed the rights of employees in stores until Sunday's rest early in 2003, and a half year later a referendum followed, where almost 300,000 people, 300,000 voters voted in favour of closed trade on Sundays. And today, thank God, the time has come when shopkeepers will come to the right to Sunday's rest and to the realization of the referendum will. No one in this room can convince me that opening shops on Sundays is more important than spending Sundays with our loved ones. In addition, during all this time, we have demonstrated at this time that trade can be opened less time and that trade on Sundays can also be closed. The value of a family is simply high [[sign for the end of the debate]] More important than shopping on Sunday and family life is much more important than buying fresh buns on Sunday morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can see that. I'm just asking you to sign up. The first one has the word Marjan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I must make it very clear that I will be happy to support this law, because I am one of the people who constantly advocate that employees have the right to at least a day, to at least one day off per week and to all those who work from morning to evening almost, and this is the majority of employees, of course, wants to be able to spend at least one day with their family during their week. I think that this is justice, fair and fair at least, although I think I would make the law so that even on Saturday at 12 o'clock the stores would be closed. Since I'm on the border with Austria at home, I know how things work in Austria and there's no problem. People live normal lives. They don't have any problems, so they close all the stores on Sundays, and so it's Saturday at 12 o'clock, and people live perfectly normal with it. All these large corporations that are pressing on every possible door, but they have a logical interest and I understand it, but I have no problem with it, because I think that we can also set certain rules that all of us, all of us, have to follow, I will tell everyone who is somehow bound to the functioning of the country, to the functioning and future and to the development of all of us together. And here we have to look both at employees and on the other hand also at those who run companies and so on. But there's always some compromise to be found. And for me, it is also a compromise that those who spend six days working as hard as they can, and these are traders and merchants, have the right to one day off a week. And that's why I support this law, and I think it's fair and fair. In the end, you know, life is just one thing, and it needs to be put together so that we all have the right to have our share in this, in this, in the story when we talk about life story. And now, of course, it is very important whether we are able and so responsible, those who lead and are responsible for the future and development of this country, that we take such decisions and solutions that are not written on the skin of just one or only the other, but we are looking for a suitable compromise that is fair and fair and that is, and this law I think is going in this direction and that is why I will also very much welcome and also all the traders and traders who are and who are making, even today, it has been told many times how they have worked in this time of crisis, this issue, this Covida and so on, which is absolutely true and goes on a lot of thanks and I think that also, not only this thanks, thanks, thanks is too little, because you know, thanks not to be able to live, it is important that you have, besides your normal payment, which is very important, also, so that you can rest from the next hard day. And if traders and merchants don't earn one day a week, then something would be wrong with those who are decision makers. Of course, I also take into account employers who need to be taken into account because there is also a great responsibility in the background, but if this can work in Austria, which is more developed than Slovenia, I am speaking economically, I can and should work in all other countries. And these large corporations have no problems in Austria, they have no problems in some other European countries, then they should not have problems in Slovenia either. So once again, I will support this law, I am happy to support it, I have supported it all the time, especially because citizens and citizens are important to me, garages and garages, if I can say so, and they are top traders and merchants. That's why they deserve at least one day of rest a week. That's why I'm happy to break this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word has Micah Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, chairman. Capitalism is a system for making profits. This profit creates through a competitive competition on the market and since it is a whole mechanism, this competitive competition is devastating. It's destructive to human life. It's destructive to the planet. It's destructive to nature. Capitalism can't take care of people's needs. When someone is in the workplace when they cross the threshold of the job, there is this mechanism of competition that makes him stand out, collapses him, so that they are capital-bearing as high as possible. As soon as someone leaves the workplace, capitalism attacks him with other means, creating false needs, that some worker for his already hard-earned salary buys things he doesn't need, or buys those things he needs, and merchants offer him some cheap bad stuff for his or her survival. However, products do not work in such a way that they are sustainable to be used for as long as possible, they work to, say, smart phones, die as soon as possible, to break nylons as possible. In this way capitalism knows a double use screwdriver. Store employees, those who put together shelves, those who operate in warehouses, the cashiers who serve us, these people are at the crossroads of these two worst capitalisms. They work for poor wages, often minimum wages, basic wages that are lower than survival needs. However, these latrines must be accompanied by their lives, the lives of their families, and in time they cannot even afford it. A store employee, a term like freedom doesn't really exist. It does not exist because their incomes are too low, it does not exist because they cannot even seriously organise their working hours. Shops operate seven days a week. The incentive to close trade on Sundays is at least a little return to the dignity of employees in this trade sector. There is absolutely no economic argument to overwhelm this moral imperative to improve the lives of employees in trade. The trade sector is one of the more profitable in this country. According to the latest data alone, the biggest trading chains were creating 800 million and over, net profit. A few years ago, this number was slightly smaller. Thus, profits in the trade sector are growing and growing hopping forward, for the next year, a figure that will go through one billion nets. This profit reaps on the back of the one who works at the cashier who folds shelves, translates packages after storage and health consequences are obvious, destroyed spines, stress, even for family life are obvious, even when, say, the workers in the store are free, they can't really organize any rest at all. That's what we heard yesterday. They can only do housekeeping. So there is no freedom for these employees. There's no argument to leave the chain of commerce open on Sundays. For those who are afraid of job losses, let me stress once again what we have already pointed out on the left several times, as the employees themselves and their union representatives have said, in the trade sector, the Government of Human Resources Nutrition and the capital owners of this human resources sub-nutrition do not want to fill in themselves. Of course, as I immediately pointed out, here are the profits that need to be forged and pursued in all possible ways. The number of employees in stores will not fall if they close on Sunday. If anything, this working group, which is already operating in the trade sector, will only be burdened, and in fact this trade industry in us in particular shows how very capitalism as such, such as some system of organisation, logistics, consumption and production of goods is really bad, how it is not designed to measure man and not nature. We are a country with huge shopping surfaces per capita, in this we are in the world summit. Why? Why were agricultural areas supposed to grow there? The already mentioned destructive dynamics of competition. One trading chain will come, I don't know, Mercator, I'm making it up now, I'll give you an example, and it will set up its shopping centre, just so that all the other traders can keep their market shares, around this one Mercator shopping centre, and Tušev will grow, and Lidlov and Eurospin's, and Hofer and shopping centres around the country have multiplied. It is absolutely necessary to reject this amendment, which came to the table from the customer of the Modern Centre, in order to keep trade open on Sundays if workers are working in these shops, specifically, students and pensioners. This is an amendment for even more luxuries in the industry and in a society where industries are already more than too much. And ladies and gentlemen of the SMC, you were in the previous government, in the government of Marjana Sarca, sitting at the Ministry of Labour. The main task of the Ministry of Labour in the field of labour market is to remove the chastity. Today, a few months after you are no longer a party to this government, at the initiative of the Left to close trade on Sunday, you have tabled an amendment to fully prefigure Sunday's trade work to make it even cheaper for wholesalers who are already showing 100 million profits. It is also necessary at the start to reject the argument that people want to work on Sunday, because this will result in higher wages. I think that people want to be free on Sunday, they want to spend time with their families, quality free time, they can go somewhere, they relax, they have a little nice, which has finally shown all the surveys that were done among the employees, and the employees are the ones that need to be listened to here, because their closed shop on Sunday is the farthest to go. And we were able to hear in the debates that "these union polls, which find that employees want to shut down on Sundays, they're not really merodical, they're some manipulated union data" - is that right? According to Lid's own research, the company's answers were the same — 90% of the employees to close down on Sundays and get one fixed day off a week, which is a Sunday where they can live their lives, but not to live just to go to work. At the same time, for all of these 800 million profits recorded by the trading industry in our country, the net profits recorded by the trading industry in our country are an absurd reference to the Sunday payment in order for traders to receive a higher salary. What needs to be done is to raise the basic salary. The traders could have done it themselves, so the capital owners, who control the trading chains, of course they do not want to do it. More important than human life is their profits. Since all these trading chains are privatized, all these profits flow into some foreign centers. But for a higher salary, the workers in these trading chains have to press themselves — by organizing themselves in a trade union. And when they are strong enough to be able to sit at a trade table with owners and managers and pose a threat to them, then these owners and managers will also start acting differently, much nicer, much better for shop employees, and they will also be given higher wages. Therefore, let me conclude this debate with an invitation to all shopkeepers. Form unions, engage them, be active. It's just a job path to a better life. They cannot threaten to stop your jobs and move them to Bosnia, Serbia or China. You simply cannot put a square metre of trade on your shoulder and carry it across the sea to a third world country where the labour force is cheaper. You can't. This industry is rich enough to afford to pay higher wages. Whether this will result in higher wages depends on the class fight, more precisely on how well you are organised in stores. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The text shall be by the representative of the proposer, Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u100	Thank you. I would like to thank everyone for the constructive debate. I think we've exhausted it a lot, we've said a lot of things, we've been repeating some of them the other day, but nothing, because we're in Parliament because we're in Parliament, we're clearing up problems. And I'd like to say one last few final thoughts. Now trade seems to me like such a beautiful example of new social polarisation or rather new social arrangements. We have, as Micah has just described, on one side of the rich trading chain, on the other side of the poor employee. We have more than a hundred million or even billions of profits on the one hand, and on the other hand we have payments to the minimum wage because the basic wages are below the minimum. We have on one side two-digit yield numbers, I think that trade is practically the only sector in Slovenia that achieves this. On the other hand, we have seven-day workers. It is said that in the trade it has finally broken down, destroyed, trampled on some social-democratic or socialist or social capitalist or democratic consensus formed after II. World War II, which was defended by all political parties, from socialists to Democrats, at that time. This worked on the following formulae. Every man was guaranteed the right to free time. The day was divided into three parts, eight hours of work, eight hours for family or friends, for himself and eight hours of sleep. The week was divided into three parts. 5 days to work, 1 day to work at home and 1 day to rest. This is still the standard in which I think that many or most, large majority of the population in Slovenia believe, but is radically ploughing. And we see this nicely in the case of stores. The worker is no longer organized at 8:8 but is completely unpredictable. Traders and merchants are on the phone. The week is no longer organized at 5:1:1, but can last all 7 days. Salaries no longer provide people with some normal existence, but they are often paid up to a minimum wage. On the other hand, we have a large capital, large merchants who make two-city returns and who make over a hundred million profits. Each year, however, they are not willing to give up a piece of cake to their employees in the store. I think that we can talk here about the end of a period that is perhaps the most radical in Slovenia between sectors in the case of trade. Once again, we come to a world for which at the end of the 19th century, the beginning of the 20th said that for many people freedom ends at the door of the company. And today, I think, we can say that tradesmen and merchants are. We came to some new polarization work where instead of all being middle class like we were or were our ancestors after II. World war, we come to polarization of work, where on the one hand we have a small number of management layers, in which we can break through or a layer of well-paid specialists into which only some can get through, and on the other hand the middle class melts into increasingly poorly paid, unjust and impoverished employees and reprisals. As a matter of fact, trade is a fine example of this. So it's not just some economic observation. This, after all, entails serious political consequences. The division of labour is not only an economic category, but rather a social one. From division of labour, social relations are growing and social tensions are growing from division of labour and end-of-work, from division of wages or division between wages and profits. And if we want to understand why today seems like the world is about to blow up, it's not enough to talk about such and other extremes in politics, but we have to ask ourselves what went wrong in the economy, where did all this anger come from? Why do people feel that there is a world or some kind of right that we have already had? Why do some feel like the ground under their feet is slipping away? Today, when we talk about trade, we not only talk about trade but talk about what kind of world we want to live in. Whether we want to live in a world where the industry is normalized by seven-hour workers on minimum wages, on call work or on call, where people no longer have time or themselves. It's a world where it's not an economy that works for us, but where we're the ones working for the economy, where it's not the machine that works for us, but we've become the pinnacle of the machine. That is why I am joining what Robert Polnar said in the introduction yesterday, to think past this economy, to think about what kind of society we want to live in, what kind of economy we want to create, and I am convinced that virtually no matter what our political definitions, we would rather live in a world where we are not the attachments of a machine, we are not the attachments of an economy, but an economy that works for us where we work so that we can live well from our work, and a good life does not only mean good wages. As an English proverb goes, the one who owns the day is rich, which means that the key ingredient of a good life is free time. So I am pleased that today, if I understand the atmosphere in the Chamber, we have come to the conclusion that in the trade sector we are making a decision in favour of free time and not in favour of bringing the silence further to the exploitation and reduction of standards. So, of course, we will support the law and look forward to making this important move after seventeen years.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Bojana Muršič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u102	Yes, thank you very much. I wanted to apply earlier, and the proposalr was faster than I was. Although I wanted the motioner to have the last word, I still wanted him to have the last word. I must say that I support this law, because I believe that finally after seventeen years the time has come for traders and traders to be free on Sunday. Indeed, with these exceptions, which were adopted yesterday on yesterday's committee, it seems appropriate and wise that at least in the tourist areas where this is the case, I will say part of their tourist offer will also keep this. Now, while the situation of workers and workers in the store is difficult, there are also difficult conditions in other sectors that they are doing, but when I was 40 years ago somehow – there were no shops opened on Sundays, also at the time of my schooling, I will say we were not aware that we will have to work on Sundays in the future, so I think we should finally legislate this referendum decision. I have to say that at this time Covida-19, when shops and malls were closed on Sundays, it turned out that we know shopping habits to adjust time. It also turned out that somehow we pick up or buy all the necessary things during the other days that are open, it's six days, and I absolutely have to say that I support it. Even if you talk to merchants and merchants, they agree, for it is only difficult to plan their family life, unless they know which Sunday they will work and which one they will not. I certainly think it is wise to move forward and believe that all those working in this sector will also be grateful for the future, and also for their quality of life and for their relatives, by adopting this law, will greatly improve. It also seems to me that it would be right to make a condition — I think a condition — paid to pay more for this work of traders and traders, because traders and traders have very low wages, and in this trading chain it looks like humane malnutrition, but all of them tend to make as much profits as possible, but if we look at who makes these profits, the profits are created only by these large shopping centres, which are mostly owned by foreigners. And that is really wrong, and it seems to me that we are going in the right direction with this law and it will be the right of workers after long, long years of reinstated, as it also shows from this debate today, and this is to say that we are finally almost most of us on the same train and I believe this is the right thing to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no one wants to discuss this anymore, I am concluding the debate on Article 1 and the amendments of the SMC Group of Members. The debate on the title of the chapter is followed by the final provision and Article 3. Since the amendment of the SMC Group to the title of the chapter is the final provision which is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 3 we will discuss them together. I am giving the title of the chapter the final provision and Article 3 and the two amendments of the SMS Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. I will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting in 10 minutes in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item and the 42nd extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 3.05 p.m. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 14.52 p.m.) (The sitting resumed at 15.05)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-16-SDZ8-Izredna-42.ana.u104	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. We are moving to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions, which will first vote on point 2 and then on point 1. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with paragraph 2 of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Courts in the framework of an urgent procedure. Since the amendments to the amended proposal were not tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. The 86 Members present, for 50, against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to, or continue with, the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, which is, at the second reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade in the framework of the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Seven. 2020, published on the e-club with a new label. We decide on the amendment of the SMC Group to Article 1(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this Article shall become irrelevant. We're voting. 84 Members present, for 18, for 45. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC Group to the first Article under number 2. We're voting. 84 Members present, for 42, for 38. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC Group to Article 3. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to the title of the chapter shall become the final provision without purpose, since the amendments are substantively linked. We're voting. The vote is under way. 85 Members present, 35 to 47. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the SMC Group to Article 3 has not been adopted, the amendment of the same proposal to the title of the chapter has become a non-essential final provision. We have concluded our decision on the amendments, thus concluding the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold the third reading of the bill at its next meeting. The wording of the draft law for the third reading will be prepared by the services of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 42nd extraordinary meeting of the assembly. I inform you that in 10 minutes this hall will begin its 43rd extraordinary session, which will be held at 3 p.m. for 20 minutes. The meeting ended on 16 July 2020 at 15.10.
