ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 17th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Iva Dimic from 13:00 on, mag. Dejan Židan from 16:00 on, Matjaž Han from 16:00 on, mag. Marko Koprivc, Mojca Žnidarič, Yuri Nice, Mag. Franz Rosec and Gregor jedan. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the State Council to the 2nd and 3rd items of the agenda, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the representative of the Council to the 11th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 17th regular meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 15 May 2020, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. My friend Kordish, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, chairman. On Friday morning, the College of the President of the National Assembly was held, i.e. your college, where we discussed how it will take place in a timely and procedural manner this week. To my direct question, when are the committees of the National Assembly to be held to deal with the so-called coronation laws to be followed by an extraordinary meeting on Friday, you replied that these committees would be listed on Thursday. Today, however, we can find that on Tuesday — after 15 hours of debate in the National Assembly — the work committee was also to take the crown of law under scrutiny. It can happen that the Labour Committee will not start its work until midnight, and, Chairman, I think it is not serious, I think it is dangerous, and I think it is also harmful for declared purposes in these laws. If we are to help people, if we are to help them in the economy, we need a little more serious treatment. This regular session, which we are starting today, is scheduled to take place on Monday, so today, tomorrow and tomorrow, an extraordinary meeting is scheduled to take place on Friday, and it is still Thursday. So that Thursday that you yourself, the chairman, referred to my question as the day when the working bodies of the National Assembly were to take place to deal with these crowns of law. President, I think it would be very responsible for you to sit, if necessary, on your college, the College of the President of the National Assembly, and move the handling of working bodies to Thursday.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u3	Comrade Kordish, this is an abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You know that working-body sessions are convened by work-body presidents. What you have mentioned has nothing to do with the regular session, whose agenda we set at this time, so I suggest that you contact the presidents of the working bodies if you do not agree with the reference to the hours or dates of individual working bodies. My friend Kordish, I hope it's not abuse. You've got a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u4	Many things can be referred to as abuse in the State Assembly, but none of what I do, but all that the Government does with the parliamentary procedure and which makes it possible for the coalition in the parliamentary process. One such incident is also the reference of working bodies to deal with the so-called crowns of laws. We'll be sitting for 15 hours at this meeting on Tuesday. Following the conclusion of this debate, the work committee is expected to take place after fifteen hours of discussion. He can start his work at midnight. The following day, the regular meeting will continue at 9 a.m. You can't wash your hands, chairman, and say that this is a matter of individual president of the working body and that this has nothing to do with a regular session. Of course he has something to do with the regular session. If we sit at the meeting until four, five in the morning and then continue our regular session at nine in the morning on Wednesday, how do you think this will affect the quality of the debate and the quality of the consideration of laws? When these crowns of law are lacking [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u5	My friend Kordish [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u6	all key moments [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u7	Do you have any? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u8	Can't you reach out to me, Chairman? I have three minutes to make my procedural proposal. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u9	I can get it for you. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u10	and you are becoming extremely problematic because you do not allow me to implement the rules of procedure which allow me to make a procedural proposal. [[…]] And certainly the procedural proposal to move the working bodies to Thursday, as you yourself said on Friday, that when it happened, was entirely justified. I have three minutes to make my case without you jumping into my word or taking my word, chairman, because it is then a double abuse on the government-coalition side. President, I think that the rush of dealing with the crown of laws by reference to working bodies on Tuesday at midnight, instead of Thursday at noon, as you yourself have stated, would be a good day, on Friday at your college, counterproductive. I also think that this is a purely political game, so that the laws in which people's assistance and needs are missed as soon as possible, even the economies, are pushed into some of the times that citizens and citizens will have to follow as hard as possible, while at the same time making it impossible for substantive criticism and to complement it. At the same time, an additional victim of this haste and manoeuvre is also a regular meeting of the National Assembly. If the Labour Committee starts tomorrow at midnight, it will meet for a few hours and the National Assembly will continue its regular session on Wednesday at 9 a.m., what do you expect the debates to be between Members and Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u11	Comrade Kordish, this was also an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, so I give you a reminder. [[advertising from the hall]] You don't have the procedure anymore, or I'll give you the last one. If you're going to abuse me this time, I'm going to take your word for it. My friend Kordish, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u12	President, you can't take my word because I'm using a procedural option. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u13	Because you're abusing him, Comrade Kordish [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u14	to make a procedural proposal. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u15	You're abusing procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u16	And this procedural proposal is completely corrected and in the gabaritas of the National Assembly [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u17	What's your procedural proposal? Tell me a piece of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u18	What's not in the gabaritas of the National Assembly is that, Chairman, you take my word that you're jumping into my word. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u19	Which article of the Rules of Procedure are you referring to?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u20	allowing the committee to be called at midnight instead of Thursday, as you yourself said should have happened [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u21	My friend Kordish [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u22	President, once again I submit my procedural proposal – let's postpone the hearing on the working bodies of the National Assembly to [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u23	We can't go to [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u24	Thursday, which was agreed on Friday. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u25	Listen to me, we're at the 17th regular session of the National Assembly today, and we can't move a working body on an extraordinary session. We can't. It's not in the Rules of Procedure, you know that.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u26	Presidents, of course this can be [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u27	I take your word, Comrade Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u28	No problem. That's what happens. Stop me. You don't have the authority. [[turn off the microphone]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u29	Yes, I do. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] We're moving to the vote. We decide on the agenda. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 3. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the agenda of the 17th regular meeting of the assembly has been set. First we'll move on to point one, then I'll give my colleague Luke Mesca procedurally. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 59 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order for the question to be asked shall be set in accordance with Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question, the President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. The Member shall submit a request to supplement the reply within two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asks a question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that such a proposal needs to be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, but not on the procedural proposal to be used for the substantive debate on the question raised. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, Zdravko Restovalšek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, apologized for today, starting at 6 p.m. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. However, before we move on to the question of Members of Parliament, colleague Luka Mesec still has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. My procedural proposal is for you to interrupt the first item of the agenda for one hour, to convene a consultation of the leaders of the parliamentary groups and to agree on how all the committees on the third anti-korona package will be dealt with on Thursday. As Miha Kordish told me before me, Thursday is not a regular and not an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. On Thursday, we have all the time to deal with these laws and it makes absolutely no sense that one of the committees is literally at midnight tomorrow if everyone takes advantage of the opportunity for a debate scheduled for 15 hours. Look, we're about to consider the third antikoronic package. The first two have largely missed their objectives, about 20% of the aid has been distributed to citizens and the economy, about 1% of all credits have been frozen and no State liquidity guarantee has been issued by 15 May, which means that the two laws have been null and void. And now you are the third anti-Korona package to equip Slovenia with a defence strategy against the upcoming recession, which will be the worst in recent years, to organise this debate in a way that is meant to be given to me literally on Tuesday at midnight after a 15-hour debate in the National Assembly. P We are talking here about packages worth hundreds of millions, even a few billion. We can't have such an important debate. Please have Tuesday night. Therefore, I call on you, President, as I have said, to suspend the meeting for an hour, to convene a consultation of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, if it is necessary for the presidents of the labour force, and to ensure that these laws can be dealt with normally on Thursday. We are talking about hundreds of millions of euros, we are talking about how Slovenia will survive the future recession and not put us in a position to have this hearing Tuesday night during a regular session, when there is no need for that if we have all the time on Thursday. And what does this have to do with the meeting? This also has to do with this meeting, because on Wednesday we have a new day, we start at 9 a.m. and you can also imagine how such a debate on Tuesday night will affect the quality of the debate on Wednesday, when we also have a number of important points on the agenda of this meeting. In short, stop the session and make sure that the committees are normally organised on Thursday.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Mesec, President of the Working Body, refers and leads the meetings of the working body and the public presentation of opinions, sets out the rapporteurs to deal with individual matters at the working body meeting and to take care of the preparation of reports and conclusions of the working body, as set out in Rule 47 of the Rules of Procedure. As far as your proposal for a consultation is concerned, I intend to convene a consultation this week. Although I intended to call on Wednesday, we have a number of issues to discuss. We can introduce him some day earlier, perhaps this afternoon, but we do not have to interrupt this meeting today. I propose that we continue this meeting and then agree with the leaders of the parliamentary groups on the date of this consultation, or I have the agenda already proposed, and we will extend it with this point. We turn to the first four questions that will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. The question will be asked by Jani Möderndorfer, Jani Prednik, Violeta Tomić and mag. Marco Pogačnik. Let us first go to the first question put by Jani Möderndorfer, LMŠ.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u32	Thank you very much. President of the Government, you are pleased to mention the achievements of this government over the past two months. I can agree that the results of the crisis that we have had in the last two months are even partially successful by numbers. Of course, this is no longer an indication of the public finances and the economic situation itself. So let's see, Prime Minister, before I ask you a question, the facts we're on today. First time. You increase the expenditure of the state budget by two billion euros or by a fifth. April's tax and tax drop is 25%. You raise public debt by 16 percentage points. The epidemic has driven the unemployed into the sky and we are only in the last two months at 14 percentage points higher than we were before. Ten thousand 800 jobs have been lost. Liquidity loans with the State guarantee currently have virtually no serious impact. The health department is forecasting 129 million minus. We are witnessing a historical debt that is justified, but the key to doubts and the appropriateness of the steps themselves, order and effect that will follow. And what's most important is your prediction that next year we're practically going to be at 2% of economic growth from zero. We explain how we will raise the projected 8% decline in economic growth, which Slovenia did not have in the worst times of the crisis. That's why I'm asking you, Prime Minister: What will be the measures that we will also see in the budget you will draw up? Don't tell me about the measures we've taken in the National Assembly, as far as Crown 1 is concerned, Crown 2 because we all know them very well here. What are the concrete economic measures that will be known and reflected in the next year's budget to drive the economy? The measures provided for in Crown 3 speak only of one part of the economy, not of the economy that will still be on the wallpaper. And here I'd like to ask for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u33	Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u34	Thank you so much for the question that's important. Data in the sense of the forecasts you are making, these are not my predictions, these are the forecasts of the institutions involved. The government doesn't look up and then draw some numbers out of the air. These are the forecasts of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, the IMF forecasts and the European Commission's forecasts. That forecast, which is somewhere in the middle of here, is the European Commission's announcement that Slovenia will see a fall in gross domestic product around 7% this year, which is about the average of the European Union. This forecast is based on the fact that Slovenia has a predominantly export economy. And if demand falls in European markets, the need for what we produce and export to these European markets also falls. From this point of view, the Government is taking this forecast for more or less realistically, given that European statistics are so largely ahead of ours, and we have a smaller task here in terms of better organisation, as far as obtaining data at home is concerned, that we will not fall for the European average. But that's just by the way. You are also right to say that, on the basis of these antikron packages that have been adopted so far, and also the ones that you have already had for four days on your hands, it is not possible to plan some big growth next year, because these are packages to mitigate the consequences of the crisis caused by the epidemic in us or the pandemic in the world and especially in Europe. But we are most dependent on these markets. These are the measures by which we expect Slovenia to maintain the potential that we can grow next year. The forecast for next year is not a government forecast; we have merely repeated the European Commission's announcement, which has been made public. The European Commission is forecasting a few tenths of a percentage point this year to fall by more than 7% and almost equal growth next year. It also states that, in particular, due to the measures taken by Slovenia in the sense that it is trying to preserve the purchasing power and well-being of the population and the potentials of the economy and on the basis of what we are predicting we will do. What are those key measures? One of the key laws, which is not a third crown package, is the continuation of this, even you have a few days on the parliamentary benches, this is the law on removing obstacles to important investments. In Slovenia, currently according to the Ministry of Economy, about 400 investments or projects cost at the time we took over the government at the start of the epidemic. Many of these projects had space provided by funding sources, products to be produced there, if these programmes and projects were to be implemented, had their customers, the real market is theirs, but it was all because Slovenia is the country with the highest regulation of the world's population, probably not just in Europe. With this law, which I hope you will address and adopt in a short time, important projects are set priorities in how they are managed through procedures, and we expect that if we do, and for many of these projects there is the same space after the epidemic as before, this will affect economic growth in percentages, not in decimals, but in percentages, without having to provide any substantial additional funding from the debt. We expect, however, that by removing other bureaucratic obstacles, we will also significantly accelerate growth in the coming year.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Comrade Möderndorfer, request to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u36	As usual, I didn't get an answer. I am interested in the budget because I was very clear on the question. How and how will this be known in the budget? Today, we are talking about investments that, in fact, the majority in the National Assembly do not even know what they are, and we know that we also need additional money. What does that mean — a new debt? Especially in the light of the fact that everyone in this room knows very well that the budget we adopted last year is no longer actually there. He's not here anymore because he's changed his relationship. Relations have also changed in the way this budget operates itself. You know that under Article 12 of the Law on Intervention Measures in the Field of Public Finance, the Government actually allows this government to allocate funds at any time. In fact, we'd like to have one answer. Since we all know from these vouchers that nothing can be cooked in a pot — depending on what numbers are and what will follow — will there be cuts and reductions on various programs, especially in the social field? How will we solve the health problem that lies ahead? If we don't have enough inflows and more inflows, and we'll have them your way, because we're going to start up investments, otherwise I don't know what's going to happen yet, I believe the law will be interesting, but how will this be reflected in the budget? This is a key matter. Today we can tell which organizations and institutions are forecasting economic growth, but the fact is that these are our institutions. The institutions that I have mentioned are eightfold, and Umar predicts even worse growth, which is 15% minus, which means an essential, significantly worse picture. That's why I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u37	Prime Minister, you have the floor to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Look, I've told you here several times that these predictions are made based on assessments of the consequences that we can do. If the epidemic occurs in the second wave in the same or worse scale as it was in the spring, then we can speculate now what measures will still have to be taken and what will be the new fiscal normality in Slovenia and Europe. But we are working to prevent this from happening or to control the wave at the very beginning without having to stop public life and part of the economy. However, as far as the budget is concerned, honourable Member, there are more projects where something can be produced, say what the market needs, more taxes are collected from it, more people are employed there, more people can take care of themselves and help others. There are more new jobs, less pressure on social transfers. More people work, more people contribute to the common treasury. And if the pressure on other public cash registers is lower, then there is no need to finance pensions or health bills from the budget. This math is very simple. As far as investment in health care is concerned. Negotiations are under way for the reconstruction fund, which will be associated with the next seven-year European budget. In this recovery fund, investment in the health systems of the Member States of the European Union will be a priority and we are working to negotiate as many of these funds as possible. From this point of view, the European Commission's forecasting a European average drop in gross domestic product this year means that the currency of these funds is roughly on the average of the European Union, as this will be the criterion of another operating instrument, such as the seven-year European budget, is virtually non-existent. So that part of these funds are also supposed to represent subsidies, not just loans. Which will help other Member States and Slovenia, at a favourable rate, to mitigate the impact of this crisis due to the epidemic and to ensure more rapid conditions for growth. There is more growth, more money in the budget for all needs. As a result, the government does not plan any significant cuts in human income.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u39	Thank you. Comrade Möderndorfer, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u40	That's right, President. Today, it is unappreciative to expect the Prime Minister to be able to explain in five minutes what this new future will be like, given that, after this two-month crisis, virtually everything has been put on the table. What is even more important is that today, in his reply, he has given at least five different reasons why a general debate should be held before we can even get to the budget. For the first time, to find out what these significant investments are, whether they are investments that are also in the interest of Slovenia. Because we haven't heard in detail what this is all about. Then all of these plans, which the Slovenian public does not really know and does not know how we are going to get there. Especially because the following is more than clear and well-known in politics. It is very clear and nice to say what will happen in one month, in five months and in one year, and then a good politician can explain very well why this has not happened. That is why I think it is imperative that a general debate be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 25 May 2020, in the framework of the votes. The next question has been asked by colleague Jani Prednik, SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u42	President, thank you for your word. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! As soon as it became clear two months ago that due to public health we must stop all necessary activities in our country, people have taken good account of all your actions, respected President. And, above all, it saved our lives. At the time of the adoption of the first marriage packages, many individuals, businesses and organisations responded with a number of constructive proposals to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic. At the outset, I ask the honourable President: Why did you not heed many of these suggestions, and why have many of them lost their answers, not only without solutions? First of all, those involved in gatherings and meetings were affected. On March 7th, 10 days before the outbreak, it was restricted by the Sharčev government. On April 14th, 27 music organizations and festivals were written for you. To this day, more than 100 have joined them. I quote: "The ban on public gatherings has led to the interruption of concert venues and music festivals, the cancellation of performances and concert tours, the closure of music stores and many other economic activities. The survival of individuals in many professions — from composers, musicians, to editorial services and a number of other service staff — is questioned. To this day, you have not received an answer, let alone a solution. Moreover, the measures taken by your government, such as waiting for work, are ending for them." Why don't you, Mr. President, listen to these people? A few days ago, representatives of the industry wrote to you, citing again: “Our industry is part of tourism, but there are entities registered for very different activities, and this sector consists of: event management agencies, catering agencies, congress hotels, congress and exhibition centres, public institutions, marketing service providers and other equipment and services providers for events.” There were neither answers nor solutions for them either. Of course, their problems continue or are likely to escalate. Even today, it does not seem that your government would hear any of these. In the law you sent to the National Assembly, there is no assistance for the tourism sector except for hotel accommodation vouchers and a one-month selective extension of certain measures, which do not benefit most. For the conclusion, Madam President, the question is: Why don't you listen to these suggestions? Why do you rule out certain things, and why do you not seek dialogue with them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u43	Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u44	Thank you very much. With the first and second antikron package, a million 300,000 people received such or other assistance in Slovenia. At this point, Slovenia would have 250 000 more unemployed if there were no such measures, including in these sectors that you listed. There was no difference – everyone who was on hold received 80% of the income. Those who are self-employed have received and are still receiving universal basic income for the first time in the history of this country's crises. As far as tourism is concerned, in the first two packages there were a number of measures that also helped tourism. Nearly 60,000 people work in tourism. If we did not help tourism, it would be likely that another 60,000 would be unemployed from tourism alone from these basic tourist activities. It is true that there are many other aspects to this sector. As a result, when basic tourism activities are revived or revived, more work will also be done for those who carry out the accompanying activity. But not until there are conditions for it. Slovenia is among those countries that can be freed from the conditions that activities that live on from organising mass events, where there are many people, can live. The third crown of the package also contains a series of measures that help them. I'm sure there'll be a few more segments left. At the end of June, there is likely to be a sufficiently clean picture, a few segments of involvement in service activities that will need special attention, but it is relatively ungrateful to continue guessing, but no one is released from these sectors at once. See, you can tell me how all these years in 2009, when the fall of gross domestic product was 8% or 9%, how much universal basic income was then distributed, how much assistance to those on hold, how many tourist vouchers to people, by the fact that Slovenia was then indebted to 22.5%, today we are significantly less. So, the place was huge. Everything that went well went to the banks that you then sold cheap. Now we are trying to help by helping people, also directly to the economy. Where that makes more sense, then through people to the economy. You tell me what's better: let's say 100 million euros is distributed to people in the tourism sector sitting at home, not working, activity is stagnating, objects are failing, or that this money is distributed to people who then benefit from their vacation, activity and development. If the basic tourist activity works, there is more to it. In some places, virtually whole regions live on it, and I think it's a good solution, but it costs the same. In the course of the previous economic, financial crisis, a lot of money was put into banks, and part-time or unemployment was paid, and only with these measures did we have the longest recession in history or between the Member States of the European Union. It's time to learn some of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u45	Comrade Prednik, you have the floor to explain the request for supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u46	Dear Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. You've gone a little overboard in your answer, but okay. I am also aware of the Social Democrats, as we have also repeatedly said in the course of the adoption of all laws that a lot of work has been done, a number of solutions have been adopted, supported by the Social Democrats as well. It is clear to all of us that everything cannot be done immediately. In my implementation, I have tried to point out, in essence, the problems of all those which have not been addressed by your actions so far and, of course, the call for your future actions to address them. I gave an example of everyone involved in public events. On them, we can agree here, President of the Government, on the basis of Slovenian tourism and hospitality, which are extremely affected. This is just one example of the groups that your actions are missing, and I hope you will address them in the future. In my humble opinion, the key problem is that people do not get answers to their proposals. At least that's how the people in the field tell us. All of these have submitted themselves to all the measures and there is simply no communication and no response from the government. We will also agree that people currently have real problems and that they have made a number of good proposals, including those made by the Social Democrats and the remaining opposition during the process of adoption. And here goes the criticism that the right coalition in the National Assembly has overrun all the amendments. If at least one were accepted, perhaps a problem would be solved today. So once again, President, I ask you: How will you strengthen the dialogue that has not been established now, and how will you help them in future solutions as well?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u47	The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u48	Well, it's not true that there was no dialogue. To prepare the previous anti-korona package, the Government set up 5 working groups, where all segments participated. The opposition was also invited, you received draft proposals, which you then commented on at the press conferences. We had a special working group, where the tourism economy was also involved. We also had special meetings with representatives of tourism to prepare this third anti-korona package. At a meeting where the representatives of the chambers where I was present, we talked about all these things. It is not possible to meet with each company individually. In Slovenia, economic activity is also organised in various chambers. We have sat with all these representatives, taking into account many of their proposals, but we have also said what is not yet possible at the moment, because there is also no accurate picture. And even some things we don't know how they're going to be able to relax, given that from the current epidemiological picture, until the situation is confirmed 100%, we have to wait 10 or 12 days, and more factors influence it. For this time we are still living, and by the end of 31 May, all these activities have received the same benefits as all others. No one lost their jobs, even if they were self-employed. It is true, however, that certain activities could not take place. But it's not just the organizers of the event, it's not like a lot of factories couldn't work, it wasn't happening. This country does not have so much money, even if the entire budget is borrowed for this year, to pay for everything that someone thinks they could do but did not do at that time. That's incomprehensible. So some comparisons can be made. Once again, what we can do is to mitigate the consequences, to preserve the potentials of such service activities as we are talking about. And that government is doing it. You can see it from Brussels, you can see it from other capitals. Time will show that it is also seen from Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Comrade Prednik, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. The fact is that dialogue requires two people to listen and build dialogue on it does not require that one be completely subordinated and only gratefully accepted, which in this case offers power. And it is also right that people are critical to measures of authority. You know, Mr. Prime Minister, you're the one who can start by setting an example and continue with your actions. Those who question, question, or even criticize are not your enemy, but to a large extent, people want only to tell you what they are dissatisfied with and what needs to be corrected. I am therefore making a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided on Wednesday, 27th and not on 25 May, as I mentioned earlier, in the framework of the votes. The following is on the agenda for the question of the Member of Parliament's colleague Violeta Tomić, Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. My question to the Prime Minister is quite simple: Mr. Janša, when do you intend to resign? Every time you are in power, you burden the country with your frustrations, stories over 70 years old, aggressive attacks on anyone who thinks otherwise or even dares to criticize you, a first-rate, untouchable deity, according to the system: whoever is not with us is against us. And that's why you're not a statesman, maybe you used to have this potential, but unfortunately you decided to invest all your energy in discord. There was no policy in Slovenia and there was no policy to polarize the public and to separate people as you did and to encourage people so much resistance that they are willing to go to the streets for tens of thousands just to get rid of you. Every time you appear in power, Slovenia has been burdened by corruption affairs for many years, millions have died, war profits, weapons in the '90s, over patriots ten years ago, and now we have a story with masks. I'm not talking about how you own a country and budget money. And you think you can blackmail people through a system that's been helped by the state, you shouldn't protest or anything. In short, Mr Janša's anger, which you have accumulated, is indeed your own fault, for your arrogance, demeanor, cynicism, contempt and your view of the citizens, as if they were your servants, and your unworthy and primitive rhetoric is unworthy of your functions. Now you're going to say that you're the only one capable of running the country and that your team has shown remarkable results, and let me touch that. Definitely your most visible result in the last two months has disappeared tens of millions of euros that you have overpaid for masks, fans and other materials. Just for instance, let me say that neighbouring Croatia has spent 50 million euros, and our much smaller Slovenia has spent 200 of ours, not your money. And people rightly ask for answers where this money went, which our grandchildren will pay back. People are also asking for an answer why you used the crown crisis to deal with naturalists, culturers, to privatise water resources, nature, the health system, which was precisely at the time of crisis because it was public, proved to be extremely effective. And finally, you will have to be responsible for the genocide of the elderly, because 80% of the victims of covida are from home to the elderly who have not received adequate hospital treatment. Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u53	Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u54	What has been read does not even require an answer. So much nonsense at once is hard to put on paper, but I will always defend your right to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u55	Thank you very much. My colleague Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u56	I am extremely pleased that you have stressed that you will defend my right to a different opinion, because unfortunately, on your part or on the part of your supporters, that is not the case. A few days ago, I got white powder in my mailbox. Thank you very much to the sender. In short, I also want to tell you because I have time and let me speak [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u57	My colleague, you have the floor to complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u58	I'm complementing the question. You're also discrediting people who cycle. You know, the last time I happened to meet a young gentleman who made selfies with a cop. You compare them to sloths, parasites, which is unworthy. This same young man has a family at home, two young children, and he gets up at 4:15 every day and he asked me to tell you. When he gets home at 7:00 p.m., he doesn't have the strength to lift his child into his arms. It is unworthy to insult citizens and taxpayers. He went on the road cycling because he wanted his children to live in Slovenia and to be proud of it. The officer who acted properly and held him when he was carried away is the target of your attacks. This same policeman was greatly appreciated among his colleagues, and he risked his own life saving an eight-year-old girl. And that's what you get yourself into. Look, what I'm trying to say is that it's unworthy for one Prime Minister to act like this and that he's at war with everyone and then he wonders if people go to the streets. I'm going to ask for another supplement, because I think we need to talk about this in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u59	Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u60	I've listened very carefully. I just have to say that he has no idea what you're talking about. Apparently, cycling on asphalt alone does not exactly help with sober thinking, so it will take a little bit of time to get into the logs.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u61	Thank you very much. colleague Tomić, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u62	Thank you. I see you're moving to the end. I also think that you have repeatedly seen that you are threatened by someone, and I think that if you look at the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language, what it says under the Janshism, you will see that this does not mean a threat to you personally, but rather the end of such policies, lies, manipulations, separations, intolerances, hatred, untransparent use of our common money and the breakdown of everything that is the building of a civilized society. This is the amber that has driven most people to the streets and to total despair. Since I have a few minutes left, I want to tell you that despite your efforts to change the facts, be aware that Slovenians have never been part of the Warsaw Pact and we have never been part of an iron undertaking. Never. And that is why, every time in history, we have proved that we are capable and that we are ready to defend our democratic rights. That is why, Mr Janša, I call on you if you want a better future for Slovenia, if you want to be reconciled, if you want better tomorrow Slovenians and Slovenes, why don't you step down. I ask that this be discussed at the forthcoming meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u63	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 May, in the framework of the votes. The next one is for the question of the Magi. Marko Pogačnik, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u64	Mr President, thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u65	A little silence, please, Comrade Kordish. My friend Pogačnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u66	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Slovenia is one of the most successful countries in the world to fight the covid-19 epidemic. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has managed to control the Corona virus epidemic with rapid adoption of deliberate and effective measures while maintaining the social and economic stability of Slovenia. With the rapid preparation of both anti-korona marriage packages, we are between the social and economic less affected countries. The first anti-Korona package was intended primarily to preserve jobs and help the most affected groups, while the second anti-Korona package was intended primarily to ensure economic liquidity and increase the averages of municipalities. The third antikron package is also ready. With it, we are taking additional measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic. The most important measure of this law is partial subsidisation of short-term full-time work, and in my opinion we also set an exit strategy for the time when the covid-19 epidemics will end not only in us but also in the world. However, when determining measures or exit strategies, we face two strangers. The first is that no one knows when the epidemic in the world will end, and the second stranger, of course, who is linked to the first, is that it is not possible to fully assess the consequences of this crisis and, on the basis of this assessment, adopt appropriate measures or strategies. What measures and strategy does the Government intend to take in the future with these unknowns, and what is the assessment of the effectiveness and effectiveness of the measures taken in anti-korona package 1 and in anti-korona package 2? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Now two sentences on what was said before. It is said that the death of amber is not directed at a specific person. In the 1930s, Juden Raus shouted after Germany and said that it was not specifically directed at anyone. And then six million were burned in crematoriums. So much for that. As far as your question is concerned, however, the measures the Government will take to ensure that Slovenia is growing again next year. Not all ministries in the government were equally burdened by the direct fight against the epidemic and certain preparations could be carried out. One of these results is in the form of a law to remove obstacles to important investments before you, and this is a very crucial issue in order to release those potentials that exist. This means that there are financial schemes where there are places where there are programs and where there are markets for products that could be sold, but not because some projects of the year are waiting for different permits. It is also very important to see signs coming from the environment where we export most. This week, the European Commission will present a programme to help the European economy recover from the epidemic. This programme will not accidentally be called a green programme, which means that it will also try to promote certain restructurings in the economic sectors that were somewhere in the range before the epidemic itself. For example, in Slovenia, I think that more than a thousand companies work for the European or world automotive industry. Some small, some large, some mostly, so we are very involved in this production. At present, several countries, some will announce this week, are considering subsidising hybrid or electric car purchases. This requires mass restructuring in these sectors. The government intends to strongly support these reform measures for restructuring by means of measures available to it, as well as by doing what can be done under these European programmes, because this is the future. The one who stays here won't be left behind because of the crown, but because he just can't see these signals. This debate is, for example, very lively at some of the demands of the automotive industry, so the government has already included in the third package the possibility of additional lending, favourable lending through the SID of the car restructuring bank, or we will extend these programmes to all who will meet the conditions set out in this European Commission Green Plan in the future. Of course, we are creating an environment, but there are problems that have not been brought about by the epidemic, but they exist in Slovenia for a long time, where entrepreneurship is desirable, where entrepreneurs are not threatened, where they are not called exploiters and so on, but where it is known that money does not grow in a tree, that it is necessary to create it, and that anyone who is an entrepreneur trying to ensure that some programs meet, employs new people, contributes to social well-being. To remove these obstacles, the Government has also set up a strategic debarcation council and we hope that the number of these obstacles, which stifle especially small entrepreneurs in Slovenia, will be substantially reduced or substantially reduced by the end of this year. We expect that in this way there will be a lot of potential, but people do not know whether to start these programmes in Slovenia or to look for a better environment, what will decide to stay at home.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Comrade Pogačnik, you have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u70	Dear Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. That Slovenia retains the position of the country which is the most successful in fighting the covid-19 epidemic in Europe and that Slovenia can follow the path of rapid economic recovery, I believe that in addition to a pure epidemiological picture, Slovenia must maintain its reputation. However, Slovenia's reputation is being undermined by a number of stakeholders. From the opposition, which, with the artificially created affair of purchasing protective masks, brutally settles with the government and demolishes it in one of the most difficult times for Slovenia, through some media, which, with false news such as the fact that pensioners will not receive tourist vouchers, mislead and excite the Slovenian public, to demonstrations of extreme leftist groups that threaten public health and which are led and directed by extreme leftist politicians. How can the government respond? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u72	Well, in the world, no matter what you say, they're the most reflective of real things. When the government concluded last week on the basis of an epidemiological picture that, at the end of this month, if this picture does not deteriorate at this time, we will declare a formal end to the epidemic, because on the day we have several cases or no cases of new infections, it is not this news, but information on where Slovenia, what a picture we have of the last 14 days compared to other countries, has been bypassing the world's media. Last weekend, there were 24 thousand posts, as far as I could tell with the browsers, with this news. It did not say that Slovenia thinks that the epidemic is over, but figures were presented that actually prove it. I must say, no one doubted the Slovenian profession that it does not mention the right numbers here. As a result, Slovenia's positive mention was enormous, which in itself contributes to the fact that foreigners, when conditions arise, return or visit our tourist destinations. Of course, this is not an insignificant factor in the decision of those who are currently looking for new locations to move production, not just medical or protective equipment, but many other critical articles from Asia to America or Europe. I don't think there's any money that could be given to any world-class pear agency for such a good image in the country as our success in fighting the epidemic has created. There's a lot of greetings coming from everywhere. Perhaps this has even affected some of us who think that now every danger is over and that there is no need for caution. Now, too, from a number of professional circles from other countries, they are addressing us with questions and comparisons, which were the measures that enabled Slovenia, without declaring a state of emergency, a state of war, a curfew, as others have done, to achieve such a picture. One conclusion is that there are two reasons for such a situation. The first is that we decided in due time to properly control the spread of infections, although we were therefore criticized at the time. The second reason is that measures have been taken in time and have been taken into account. Mars [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u73	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. We are moving on to questions from Members and Members of Parliament, first round. The word is given by a colleague of Jerco Korča, who will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Janez Brickler to the King.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u74	President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Minister, the alarming situation in the homes of older citizens has been being pointed out for two months. Among others, we have addressed quite a few questions to your ministry. This topic was also addressed at the meeting of the Health Committee of the National Assembly. Homes became the hotspot of the infection, and the most infected and dead were quite the elderly from home. Despite the need to act, unfortunately your government preferred to deal with other matters, while stressing that you are saving lives. There was a battle in the homes, and the state left them on their own. I hope, Minister, that in this place you will agree that the battle that has been fought in the homes of older citizens is not for anyone in this country to be proud that the older ones who have built this country have somehow been left to ourselves. Instead of moving these residents to hospitals, you preferred to turn them into nursing hospitals, even though everyone knew that they didn’t have the expertise to handle these matters in nursing homes. If I repeat the repeated warnings – homes cannot ensure adequate medical treatment of patients with covid-19 and they should not be expected to do so. And if this tragic story that's been going on for the past two months, yet we know how to turn to the future, here I am, in this place, the well-respected minister, interested in the following: Do you feel objectively responsible for what was going on in your homes, even to a certain extent? Because according to recent data or percentage, 80 percent of all deaths are from home. Given that experts and your government are predicting the possibility of a second wave of the new coronavirus epidemic, I am interested in: What will you do with any other wave? Have you prepared appropriate scenarios so that we do not get what happened again — whether you provide hospital care or how you will act in these cases, will you isolate them? In general, how will you prevent the spread of infections in homes for older citizens and thus the potential death victims? I think that this is a topic that I hope is in the fullness of ambushing you or burdening you and that we have really prepared scenarios on how to protect those who have been left to themselves, but I think that was extremely irresponsible and inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u75	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Honourable Member, honourable Members and Members, President, for the first time in this city. Thank you for those questions. As I have pointed out many times, from all similar issues there is great concern for the situation of the elderly in Slovenia and I take it so well. Let me first briefly create events in Slovenian homes for older citizens, who are not the only form of institutional protection in Slovenia, as you know, during covid or during the pandemic. In Slovenia there are 102 homes for the elderly. In these homes, there are 19 thousand poor caregivers. It is clear that this has been one of the priority concerns for me as a district minister and for the government to ensure the highest possible level of care and protection for these guardians or caregivers. 90% of the home of the coronary infection was gone. In 14 homes it appeared, but in a large majority with only one or two cases and were also successfully plagued or stabilized by teams of these homes. In those homes where the virus has spread more, we know 4 homes in Slovenia, but all teams, not only the teams of those specific homes for the elderly, but also the team of the Ministry of Labour, the teams of local civil protection and others who participated, have made a lot of effort, care, much work in helping them best. That 90% of homes did not have a coronary infection, I take it as a sign that measures to prevent and control the spread of covid-19 infections were successful in nursing homes. In this place, let me say that I am proud and grateful to all the dedicated professional teams at home for the elderly, because only with their help in Slovenia have we been able to prevent the Italian script. As I mentioned, the infection was detected in fourteen homes. The biggest outbreaks were in the homes of the older Šmarje pri Jelšah, Ljutomer, Metlika, to a lesser extent also Horjul and the Bokalci unit, which is the unit of home for the older citizens of Vič Rudnik. However, the infection was also detected in some other homes, but as I said, most of all with one or two covid positive persons. The situation in the nursing homes is calming down, so our current activities are already focused on reviewing the effectiveness of all measures and good practices, as well as developing a plan to control covid-19 infections with a possible second wave. We are setting up a working group to prepare a plan to control covid-19 infections, which will include the profession, representatives of operators and both competent ministries. We know that we have shared responsibility in nursing homes with the Ministry of Health and with them since the beginning; we have been closely involved in the preparation and adoption of the necessary measures and instructions since taking responsibility. The key task of this working group will be to review all measures and good practices in the management of covid-19 infection and to prepare a second wave plan. In this way, we will also develop protocols and guidelines on how operators should operate, acting on any other wave. The aim is to ensure the safety and protection of our caregivers, tenants and employees and, to the greatest extent possible, to preserve the normal lives of residents home for the elderly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u77	Comrade Korča, do you have a request to complete your response?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u78	Yeah. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for this state of affairs. I would hardly agree that in 90% of these infections it was not that this was any excuse or perhaps even thanked the Government for its response. If only in one home these measures did not work, and the data show how many fatalities there were, and the Members' homes also tell us that they were left to themselves, that they did not have clear instructions and, ultimately, that communication was obviously also with the Ministry of Health and with hospitals at such a low level that it was not possible for these providers to move to hospitals where the facilities were empty. I think in our country, everyone is, regardless of age, a material situation and something else deserves equal treatment. There was no equal treatment here. It also appears in the media how some lists are produced. All these things are, I think, unworthy in 2020 and unworthy of having an equal treatment under the Constitution. I was wondering if you could complete the answer: When will these protocols be ready? How far is the task force? When will these orientations be given? I think that there is no time to wait here for an excessive discussion in the working groups, but to get home as soon as possible clear instructions that this second wave will be completely different from the first wave. And you haven't answered me how you feel about your objective responsibility, which is in politics in such cases, in my view, the first in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u79	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u80	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. Again, I would like to say that I feel a great deal of concern for the care of the elderly from this issue and similar issues, and I share it and therefore work with the team. As you know, my colleague, Minister Gantar, and I were there very early when a larger infection occurred at the nursing home in Šmarj pri Jelšah, we went there, talked to the management, checked the situation. I have also met with some other leaders at home during the crisis, and that is why I will now be very personal, very difficult to accept the assessment that, say, the teams at home are responsible for these deaths. Look, every death is an extremely severe blow to all the kinsmen, to all those who knew who had said good-bye. I assure you that the teams at home for the elderly have offered the highest possible level of care and support to all those in need. On Friday, I was with the Ombudsman at the home of elderly citizens in Nova Gorica. There, too, we have heard assurances that confirmed our direction during the pandemic that all caregivers in need of hospital treatment have also received it. Every caregiver in need of hospital treatment also received it. I think it's the same. In that sense, I would say that the teams at home for the elderly did this test with excellence. Only because of their self-sacrifice and their expertise can I say that we have prevented the Italian script. The protocols will be prepared as soon as possible. However, we want them to be professional, to be good, to be well supported by the experience of the pandemic of this time and to be simple and useful, to be clear that teams at home for older and other forms of institutional protection can also be well prepared for a possible second wave.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Comrade Korča, do you have a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u82	Yes, thank you very much. Home crews perform every day, even before the coronavirus, because we know they're fed, we all know, and all governments are responsible, even before you, for there being no mistake. Vomiting responsibility now or as you wanted to show my question that the teams at home for the elderly were supposed to be responsible, that's not what I said. Politics is the one who was responsible for what direction these teams received and whether they were left to themselves or not. As far as we are aware, politics has gone to some extent ignorant and has not devoted itself to this topic when it should have been because you were dealing with other things. I think that the topic of home for the elderly has solved a number of problems even during the coronavirus, and I am making a procedural proposal here to hold a general debate on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 May 2020, in the framework of the votes. The next question is for colleague Samo Bevk, who will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Several projects are being implemented in the area of the fourth development axis. The largest on the route Želen – Soča Bridge, Jelični vrh in Zala gallery, and this year, according to the Slovenian Directorate of Infrastructure, construction is expected to start between Trebija and Sovodnja. Some sections on this very important traffic axis are completely ignored. Especially on the Jelen – Lower Idrija, where no new investment projects are planned in the coming years, or plans for them, but this part of the fourth development axis is in the worst condition today. For many years it has also been planned to rebuild the road between Idrija and Lower Idrija, but the matter does not move from a dead point. That is why I ask you, distinguished Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovec: When will the planning for the reconstruction of the Želen–Lower Idrija section begin? When can we expect to begin rebuilding the road between Idria and Lower Idria? How did planning new access to the highway in Kalcas reduce driving time to the highway from Upper Soča, the Idrija-Cerkljan region and the work of Notranjska and relieve traffic for a large part of Logatca? I thank you in advance for your answers, Mr. Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u85	Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u86	Thank you so much for asking. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Members of Parliament! The fourth development axis project linking Upper Sočje and Cerkljansko to Gorenjska, and through the Idrija-logic leg forward with central Slovenia, as you yourself have mentioned, has already received significantly more intensive investments in the past ten years than were comparable measures, for example, on other development axes. I use this road more than once when I'm going to Suča. In the past, especially in this lower part of the building, which you also mentioned, has done much to look at so many and so many years ago. With regard to this mentioned section of the main road Želen–Pondjny Idrija, this is true. This section does not define a specific development programme plan or an existing investment plan for transport and transport infrastructure adopted in December 2019. It is said that no measure has been defined in this section so that all updates are carried out in the framework of regular investment works on the national road network. It will be necessary to change the plan if we are to do a greater reconstruction of this section. As part of your question, we got the idea for a certain reconstruction on the road network here. So this is where this is defined as a plan. It is true, however, that everything is ultimately linked to financial resources, which must be comparablely invested in all regions after Slovenia, on all the so-called development axes. But I stress that this part of decentralisation is important because this part of Slovenia is somehow cut off from the central part of Slovenia, especially here the problem is poor transport infrastructure. So we could bring this in sometime, we could change this plan that I was talking about. But there will be no mistake, everything that is in the regular investment works is also being carried out in this section. But it is true that there is no broader reconstruction in the plan. Restoration of the road between Idria and Lower Idria. In parallel with the reconstruction of the road at the section of Lower Idrija in this part, which you mentioned, is said to be 1.4 km long, a cycling path will also be built, which will mainly be constructed on consoles, above the watercourse, which is commendable. Cohesion funds are also envisaged for the construction of the cycling route in line with the agreement for the development of the Goriška Development Region. The reconstruction of the road and the construction of the cycling route is expected to start in the middle of next year, which is 2021. I'm hoping this date could move on. That is, when all the land will be acquired and all the permits and decisions on the allocation of EU funds will be obtained in parallel. It is worth waiting a while to get these funds and that we can also make the necessary cycling route for this section. I thank you very much for the third part of your question, regarding access to the highway there in Kalcas. Planning new access to the highway in Kalcas, which, as you mentioned, would relieve a large part of Logatca, at the same time would speed up access to the highway by the residents of Idrija, and then Cerkni, and so on. This will begin with the spatial placement of the bypass. I was visiting last week in Logatec, and we opened this discussion with the mayor of Logatec Municipality. I think he can confirm that, too, I have commissioned the Slovenian Infrastructure Society to make all the preparation in parallel with this, all the necessary documentation to place this project in the budget, which would be the basis for initiating the State Spatial Planning process. This project would relieve the Logatians of their ability to access the highway by the inhabitants of Idrija, Cerkna and the entire part of Soča.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Comrade Bevk, you have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I welcome your intention to change the development plan, which has overlooked this very important plan and today, I could say the worst part of the road on the fourth development axis between Želenjan and Lower Idrija. So we could expect a bigger investment project here, not just regular maintenance every year, which means a few meters of new dressing. So I welcome it. I also look forward to the announcement that construction can start in 2021 to Lower Idrija. This something between Idria and Lower Idria needs more modern infrastructure, road, cycling track. One piece has already been done, so I'm happy with your answers. With regard to access to the highway in Kalcas, I gave the initiative to the Government and the competent minister more than ten years ago, but there was no hearing for it at the time. I am pleased that they have now also come to know in the Municipality of Logatec that this is an absolutely necessary investment. I am currently the president of the Maritime Members' Club, and I intend to refer to the Fourth Development Axis project in June as well as the Maritime Members' Club, which was unable to act now because of this epidemic. From this city I invite you to attend the Club of Maritime Members on this topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, would you like to complete your answer perhaps?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u90	I don't really want to add anything, because I think Mr Bevk and I agree here that this section needs to be restored, we need to do a wider reconstruction. Also with regard to the reconstruction of the road between Idrija and Lower Idrija, here the time-table is very clear, in the middle of next year. I'm a minister who's just asking that the things that we've been promised to be effective here be taken away. Believe me, I will be the one who will be most tedious to my fellow workers in order to implement these projects that have been promised in the past. As far as the Club of Maritime Members is concerned, I am also Minister of Primorska, so I am happy to respond to your invitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Tomaž Lisec has the floor to ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we all have a nice greeting! Given that I am not only a member of the National Assembly but, above all, a member of the Education Committee, I have closely monitored all the measures that have taken place in the field of education at the time of the epidemic. I must say, these measures were not so small. But I would, Madam Minister, have some questions for you and I hope for specific answers. I very much welcome what you have accepted so far within PKP1 and PKP2 at this time. I am also following all the decisions you have taken and have touched the students directly or indirectly. This is according to my population, which is already in some kind of crisis, a crisis. They are about 18 years old, even without an epidemic at the end of the years, they would now be ahead of the so-called pre-examination period and probably have been monitoring more closely what is going on in this area. That is why, Madam Secretary, I am interested first in this solidarity allowance for all the regular, extraordinary scholarships. Where did this positive and dared idea that students are also part of the measures you have taken? Do you have any information if any European country has followed such a positive case that you, as a representative of the Government and as Members of the National Assembly, have taken as a positive measure for students? Do you also have any response from the University of Ljubljana in this area? And I'm also interested in a few other things at this stage: Have you been successful in what we have written in the law, such as adapting education, practical training and in particular extending student status, which I believe is also a solidarity supplement and changing the mandatory components of study programmes is one of the key moments that may have been pianistly ignored, but I believe that students have heard it very well and will also work with it? For starters: Where did this clever idea of a solidarity allowance for Slovenian students and students come from? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u93	Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u94	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, honourable Member Lisec, for your question. Dear Members and Members! The decision to make a single solidarity allowance for all regular and extraordinary students in our country was in some ways a reflection of one symbolic concern and attention that the country has given to this important group in society in these difficult times. There was no greater, broader background than just in that we give them as a signal as a country, that we know that they are here and that we want to give them this symbolic attention in this sense. You are right, according to the information we have, we are the only country in Europe that has dedicated any solidarity measure to this group of students. As far as I'm aware, they're actually supposed to be on a global scale about this. Perhaps some interesting statistics and the whole process involved in the adoption and implementation of this measure alone, I would like to tell you that by last Friday, 22. 5. have already successfully paid the solidarity allowance 52 thousand 180 students and students. Only on the first day when the application for payment of this supplement opened did we record about 35,000 applications for it. As an interesting feature, the entire eGovernment in the country received around 60 000 applications in 2019. In fact, today is the crucial date on which I would like to remind students and students who have not submitted their applications in the first place if they want to receive transfers by 1. 6. that these applications should be submitted today. Now, some information about the measure itself. This was for us, too, for our system one completely new measure. In the light of the competence and operation at the level of the Ministry responsible for education, science and sport, this was a measure which was, in fact, an integral part of the system of payment of transfers to individuals and individuals who are generally not in this jurisdiction, because you know that transfers are paid through the Ministry responsible for work. This means that we literally had to establish a comprehensive system at night as carriers of the payment of this measure to enable students and students to submit their applications and then, within the statutory time limit, be entitled to pay for this measure. In particular, employees and employees at the Directorate of Higher Education, in cooperation with employees at the Ministry of Finance, with the Public Payments Authority of the Republic of Slovenia, with the Ministry of Public Administration and the eGovernment team, and in cooperation with the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia, have activated and put on its feet this system – a system established from that first point of the electronic form that has been prepared 21. 4. until then, the payout system itself. Here let me truly, truly thank you and also commend all those who have participated in the establishment of this system. Without them, believe me, we wouldn't be able to do this. Even in some way, I can say that the entire decision and complexity of the system itself seemed so wide and so complex that it was already scary on paper, or that we will be able to implement it in practice. But we did it. So much for running out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We still have a request to complete the response. Comrade Fox, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u96	Thank you. I must say that I have not been aware so far that it is in fact such a great logistical capacity to carry out such a matter. Therefore, once again, all of you who have been involved in this work have been even more grateful and grateful. But I'd have two more questions. I want to know: How did you cooperate with the Student Organisation of Slovenia during this time of two months? Were they willing to take some of their own measures to help students? Second question: How did you cooperate with universities and universities in Slovenia during this time? Question three: Do you have any information as to how much of the student population will be decided on the measure referred to in Article 49 of the Law, the extension of student status? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Of course, within the limits of jurisdiction, because you know that basically the university is autonomous, we work with universities. We are also in constant contact with the representatives of the student organisation. I would also like to say, in the light of the measure I mentioned earlier, that we also had an extremely important and valuable cooperation with the student e-service, which, together with the media, allowed us to explain, inform students, students about this payment, and also with all the other many measures that we have taken to help students and students in these times, and to make it easier for them to continue their study work. In the context of these so-called corona laws, we have also activated the possibility of extending student status if students, students are not able to perform exams because of the current situation. We have also facilitated a number of procedures and recognitions, and the certificates they need, with electronic easier simplifications. Where we can and were in our power at the level of the State or Government, the Ministry responsible for education, science and sport, we have done everything possible to facilitate this period for students and students as well as their entire study process. If you allow me, it would be in this very place that we all wish for one happy period of exams ahead of them and then a well-deserved holiday until autumn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word is given by Primož Siter, who will question Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Cigler to the King. Comrade Siter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u100	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Minister, hello! In Slovenia, according to some indicators, the epidemic is dying, which is good news. The bad news remains that homes for the elderly are still hotspots, which is understandable, that older ones are a risk group, so they need to be particularly careful and considerate. The bad news is also that in Slovenia, despite the fact that the government likes to parade with its success in managing this epidemic crisis, real statistics wake us for a good morning – 80% of all the deaths with covid-19 that took place in Slovenia have occurred among the residents of the home for the elderly. 87% of all people in nursing homes have never received hospital care. In these statistics, we go beyond all other countries. The problem is that in controlling the epidemic in the homes that the government of the elderly did not move them to the hospital, it has not systematically tested. We have also pointed to this in Levica with reference to the urgent meeting of the Health Committee. The result is statistics, the high mortality of individuals and the uncontrolled spread of infections between providers and staff. That's not a flat rate right now. This is reported by residents, staff, civil society, activists dealing with this issue, as our previously mentioned meeting, at which a long range of civil society and professions really came to light. But the government has been — here I am critical — unresponsive so far. I therefore ask in this regard the Minister from both departments covering the homes for the elderly, who are responsible for the situation: Why did you estimate these statistics? What are the reasons why Slovenia is leading as a percentage of the mortality among home care providers for the elderly? What is the cause, and how did the government actually react to it? Why was not the travel of infected persons to hospital care considered a general measure? In what way and under what conditions does the caregiver and the caregiver travel to the hospital today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for asking. I am pleased that these issues are on the agenda today, given that there is something, let's say, inappropriate information in the public as well. First of all, we understand ourselves, as a man and as a doctor, of course, for every death, and, secondly, I can say that from the beginning, when we began this work in the field of economics, we were also aware of the vulnerability of the elderly in these homes. We've made changes in both systems, it's called health and health care in these homes. It took a lot of changes to get us to at least make the right two systems for the situation, in which we actually found ourselves for the first time. This is a health and social system in this area which has been heavily undernourished for many years. It may also be that it is wrong to think that it is only social institutions for older people in their homes. It is important to know that for many years it has also been financed by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance for health care and medical care. We are talking about a population that, to the greatest extent, is also exposed to infections and also to the highest mortality rates. Of course, statistics are a strange thing. You've given me one piece of data, and I could statistically give you data that indicate a significantly better picture. But the fact is, in these homes a large number of elderly people have died if we look at the percentage of the total picture. Now, of course, the reasons. In one part it is clear that it is older citizens, who are on average in homes, I think are about 86 years old and accompanied by a number of disease situations, which unfortunately also cause them to die or die if we reach such age under such conditions. In these cases, no hospital treatment is one that can sustain life. This is an eternal question that occurs when dealing with a person who is either seriously ill or severely weakened, such as optimal treatment or care. That is why we have tried to transfer this decision from the hands of a personal doctor responsible for a particular home of older citizens to a team that would make it easier to decide who the hospital actually is and who does not need such hospital treatment because it would not result in an extension of life or an improvement of health status. This happens at the time of the epidemic, it always happens outside of every epidemic. Why do you have to go home? In all the countries we're talking about, there were among the dead of the oldest. We also have a higher number in our homes because on average we have a higher number of beds per thousand population than in other countries. For example, in Slovenia there are 54,4 beds per thousand inhabitants, in Italy where there were significantly fewer beds, although the deaths were significant more than in homes, there are only 19.2 beds per thousand inhabitants. On average, the OECD is also lower than Slovenia, and this is an easy answer why Slovenia and just homes for older citizens. On this occasion, I must say that neither by accident nor in the worst case scenario has it been ordered, not foreseen, nor has any decision been taken on those left behind. This is a defiant thinking that I strongly oppose and even with evidence can, but now it is running out of time, we say that this has not been the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Comrade Siter, you have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I would have responded to the minister's claim. When we talk about these lists, which were given a name in the human language, the census lists, which are the sad reality of this situation, are so. That these lists exist, we've learned from several sources. This has been reported by journalists, relatives, and anonymously, because they are quick to fear for work and their safety, some employees report home to the elderly. This is the sad reality. What is even more sad about this is that these lists, reports the field, were formed without the knowledge of the people on those lists. This is the issue of these lists. Forgive the dictionary. There's one more thing I'd like to answer. Minister, you say that homes for the elderly are not just social institutions, they also implement a health programme. That is true, but certainly not as much as a hospital as an infectious clinic offering 100% quality treatment to the patient. This information is particularly important in the fact that the Ministry of Health reports that the capacity available in hospitals is only up to one third. Since we have some expectations of a new wave in the autumn or at any time, I ask both ministers: In what way are we prepared that this scenario will not happen again, that we will not witness again to patients who could offer help, and on the other hand, forgive the term, to write off on the other hand?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u105	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u106	Once again, I strongly oppose this list theory. On the other hand, we need to know that covid-19 is a disease that can take place in different ways, from asymptomatic infection to mild respiratory infection to worse or worst form where intensive treatment is needed, including assisted breathing. And anyone who needed such treatment was also transferred to the hospital. In lighter forms without pronounced signs of respiratory infection or pneumonia, hospitalisation was not appropriate. The solution is that in these homes, mainly during this time of anomalies, which have been present for a number of years, there is a lack of human resources at all levels of healthcare and non-health staff and adequate education where possible. In the future, however, for anyone who needs hospital treatment, it will be designed and made available in the form that the individual patient will need.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u107	Also Minister of Labour Janez Brickler King.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u108	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Member Siter. He's already said a lot to a fellow Minister of Gantar. From my point of view, I can only ensure that from the first day of taking responsibility we have been really close in contact with the community of social institutions and with all the management of the home, and in particular with those directors and directors of the home for the elderly where covid-19 appeared. I've personally been in trouble with everyone, you can ask them, and they'll tell you. We've been looking together for solutions to their situation. Some homes because of architecture, some because of lack of personnel or other problems that have accumulated for more than a decade, perhaps two, could not provide everything we have written together with the Ministry of Health in the instructions. But I can tell you that, together with us, they have been looking for suitable solutions to these caregivers who live with them, and this is very important, the home of the elderly citizens is for the caregivers their home in order to ensure all of them a normal life and the highest possible level of care. And that's where they did a good job. Anyone who needs hospital care not only during the pandemic but also receives and receives hospital care in their homes for the elderly in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Comrade Siter, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u110	Thank you very much. A procedural proposal, and before that, I would like to take one summary. Taking responsibility. A good example of taking responsibility is the Swedish Prime Minister, who recently said: "Okay, we made a mistake, we reacted wrongly." They had a 50% mortality rate and 50% of all covid-19 deaths were from home for the elderly, and therefore set aside 208 additional millions for the next wave and 10,000 new personnel. Just so much for taking responsibility. Slovenia is not among successful countries, as the Government says, in overcoming the epidemic. Look at the statistics in the homes, it's 80% of all deaths, 87% of them have not been hospitalized. With some agreement on the one hand, the government restricted access to treatment, while on the other hand, when it did not move patients to hospitals, it continued to risk mass infections in homes while the hospitals filled one third of its capacity. What is most worrying is that without knowledge, the Government has drawn up these lists of patients and patients, some unacceptable triage, giving up or ordering some palliative care, once again, without knowledge, without the consent of patients and patients, which is at least immoral and is not legal. Therefore, at the final stage we have statistics as they are. To call on the Government to account, my procedural proposal is to hold a debate at the next meeting of Members and Members on this very important subject, or we will also see each other at an urgent meeting of the Health Committee and the Labour Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u111	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 May, in the framework of the votes. The next question for the question is that of colleague Franz Kramar, who will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u112	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Secretary! I'm going to ask you two questions, and you're both bound to Gorenjska. First of all, of course, I'm interested in: Where are the procedures for the construction of a south road on Bled? This carousel has a very long beard. The first documents on this Blaze Southern bypass were adopted in 1969. The fact is that Bled is choking in the summer tourist season with traffic, that one of the sights of Bled next to the castle and the island is that in the summer season traffic through Bled is almost impossible, and this has been dragging for years and years. I know that the agreement of landowners for this construction has already been gathered and that the matter has become complicated there. But the fact is, your predecessor, Alenka Bratusek, claimed that work was supposed to be phased. This means first the construction of a circle in Betina and then after the stages forward to Mliny, where the connection to the road to Bohinj is supposed to be. The other thing I'm interested in is building a burning railway. I want to know: Is there a contract already signed? In February, a public order was published to upgrade the mountain railway, but only for Lesce–Podnart. We ourselves know that this upgrade is necessary as the exploitation of the existing line is estimated at more than 90%. I'm curious, Mr. Secretary: Is there an option that this entire mountain range could be made in one step or that would be built on routes? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u113	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr Kramar, for this question or two questions. At the Ministry of Infrastructure, ladies and gentlemen, we are very well aware of the importance of the new southern Blaze, since this is the only solution that would be very effective in unloading the Bled and Bohinj tourist pearl. Those who go to Bohinj suffer indefinitely from the final tourist destination. If we want to be a friendly country of tourism, we must also adapt infrastructure to this. We're talking about this road. The company has been planned by the OPPN Municipality of Bled for a long time and is estimated to be slightly less than €40 million. On this route, three miles [3.3 km] long, construction of larger buildings is involved, covering a 468 - meter - long trench, a 283 - foot - long tunnel of Megra and then a viaduct over the Lake, which is 108 meters long. With regard to land purchases, as you mentioned, for the construction of the entire route of the southern unloading road in Bled, evidence of the right of construction on land of as much as 181 thousand 545 square metres should be obtained, which means that evidence for 350 parcels should be obtained. It's not that small. So far, contracts have been signed on the entire route to a total of around 273 plots, which is now the last number. The destruction facilities are all purchased or the owner is then moved to the replacement facility. It's true that construction continues in stages. At the first stage, which represents the progress of the new construction of the accessible ring on Betina to the tunnel, 14 more parcels should be obtained. When we get this, I hope it will be as soon as possible, but one problem is that 8 parcels are undergoing a decommissioning process. You know, these procedures aren't that fast and easy. At the second stage, which represents the process of new construction from the tunnel to the accession to the existing regional road in Přístav, the inhabitants of Mlina rejected the signatures because they disagreed with the course of the route itself. And here we have a basic problem. As a result, by gaining land at the second stage, we are making no progress, or procedures have stopped there, and the local Mlina, united in a civil initiative, strongly opposes the course of the route in their area. The Municipality of Bled has already decided to find the previous opinions of the space regulators on the new alternative solutions of the changed route in this area. The completion of new projects of solutions, Mr Kramar, and previous opinions by the Ministry or the DRSI have not yet been made aware. When we get to know this, I'll send you a letter about it. As far as construction is concerned. As soon as we get a legal building permit, we'll start building, because that's not the way it works. But the prerequisite for this is to obtain evidence of the availability of all necessary land, and this second phase that the municipality with the inhabitants of Mlina also agree. As far as the mountain railway is concerned. On 12 February of this year, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia published a public order for the upgrading of the mentioned line Podnart-Lesce Bled. The government, even this government, was one of the first meetings of this government, and the NRP accepted that this part had been put in place, for which I am grateful to my colleagues and colleagues, without this invitation to tender we could not conclude. 22. 4. The deadline for the submission of tenders has expired. We received two offers, one offering of 46 million 899 thousand and the other offering of 52 million 974 thousand euros. The review and analysis of tenders are currently under way. We'll start building as soon as all the power comes. However, as far as the other sections are concerned, much depends on the financial resources, but we are expected to start this part first.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u115	Thank you very much. My fellow Member, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u116	It's not a question, but I'd like to give you an initiative. On the southern unloading road in Bled, I personally believe that it would have been made if the owners had not opposed it. The problem with this road is ownership. Over the years, opposition to this road has been repeated and repeated. That's how I think about it if we don't get the ownership consent to go into decommissioning. I know it's taking time, but it's still my assessment of this area as the only solution for the future of this southern detour.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u118	I agree with the fact that 8 parcels are in the process of decommissioning in this part because otherwise there is no agreement. However, if we are to do something in the public interest, and the construction of this southern road is in the public interest, we must serve within the framework of the legal acts, the data of all legal elements. As for the railway line Podnart-Lesce. I agree that it would be easier now that the Karavanka tunnel will be closed down, we will also renew this to restore the entire mountain line in this part. But unfortunately, there is no funding foreseen for this purpose. That is why we will follow the steps, first of all Podnart-Lesce, and when this is done, let us make some agreement to implement the remaining renewal. But it's all about money. If we had an unlimited source of financing for the rehabilitation of rail and road infrastructure, believe me, it would be easier, but it's not working. This was also not agreed in the budget in the previous mandate. Unfortunately, if something is not in the budget, I also doubt that we will now be able to do something about the budget's balance sheet in such public financial times as we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The Magnificent Messenger. Branislav Rajić will raise an oral question to Health Minister Tomaž Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, we used to be coalition falcons, so today I can speak and ask you for an answer to this question. In December last year, I asked your Prime Minister about the normative regulation of psychotherapy. In particular, I asked whether the work of the working group, which was set up in 2018 for the purpose of preparing the draft Law on Psychotherapy and Counselling Activities, was continuing. The time for this working group to conclude its work is likely to be over. And if she's done the job, I want to know: What are the conclusions of her work? If it's not, it's probably not perspective. We must not make excuses that the views of the different professions involved in the formulation of the legal basis for regulating psychotherapy are not close. Does the Ministry of Health therefore intend to play a slightly more active role in the preparation of baselines to regulate the field of psychotherapy in the event of a lack of consensus between the different professions? With regard to the questions raised by the Minister at the time, I only received a copy of the reply, from which it is understood that the working group’s mandate has expired and that the section within the working group has proved to be uneven. At the same time, Minister Šabeder wrote in his reply that the public debate on the proposal for a regulatory regime was planned for 2019, but other urgent matters were included in the Government's normative work programme. As a result, the Ministry of Health of Material has not been able to prepare and the preparation of a regulatory regime in the field of psychotherapy has been carried over to 2020. Despite the fact that so far all the activities of the current government have been directed towards the fight against coronavirus, I am interested in the timing of the preparation of a normative regime in the field of psychotherapy. When can we expect proper legal arrangements? When preparing the law, will you take into account the results of this working group? If you are planning to set up a new working group, how will you prevent the damage caused by the delay in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you for asking, too. In fact, it is a rather complex area, which has proved to be the case over the last few years. On the other hand, for the substantive issue of national importance. As a result, the Resolution on the National Mental Health Programme was adopted in 2018, and it was also somehow established and stated that a law on psychotherapy was required to regulate this area. The task force has been trying to find a solution for a long time. Indeed, these questions were already raised in May last year and also in February this year, and some clear answer is simply not likely to be in sight. In fact, the problem is not only in different respects within individual departments, which have an interest in bringing this law to life or in giving rise to a resolution on the national mental health programme, says the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs; on the other hand, the Ministry of Education, Education and Sport and finally the Ministry of Health. The problem that has arisen, and you yourself have mentioned it, is that there are mainly different views within the profession on the regulation of this area. While health care considers psychotherapy to be a purely medical method, others advocate it as a separate scientific discipline and are intended to determine a psychotherapist as a single profession outside of health care. Here comes different views, while we already have two accredited programmes for psychotherapists at two different institutions, which fall within the field of psychology. It's hard for me to see the real solution here. I would, of course, like a consensus within the profession. In the end, politics is always the one that is critical and responsible. The problem is on the one hand when the profession is not listening, but in this case the policy itself has a problem with different positions in the field of profession. I think it's still worth another effort within the profession to at least try to get closer to the point of view. It is very different work, not only narrow-minded psychotherapy, but also psychosocial counselling, where personnel for both areas are insufficient in Slovenia. Therefore, I think it is also a struggle for who can and can do this work in some sense, because none of these two different views can fully cover all these needs. I believe that there could be some consensus if these contents were to be more precisely defined. So my opinion is once again to get some new participants, as far as the profession is concerned. If there is no way to get closer to the point of view, the law will have to be adopted, regardless of the differences. But it's hard now to promise sometimes, given that we don't know yet what will be the continuation of this infection with the coronavirus and the changes that are needed. I think that some other laws have priority, especially the Long-Term Care Act, which will also regulate that area. But the fact is, I do not underestimate this psychosocial counselling and psychotherapy that is really necessary and we will also try to do what we can to tackle this issue again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mag. Rajić, you have the floor to supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The reason that I insist on this issue, however, is not only this marital irregularity of psychotherapy, but it calls for a critical need for psychotherapeutic assistance especially in young people and, in particular, at the time of the epidemic, when it has skyrocketed. In Maribor, for example, there are reports of countless calls for help from secondary schools. One thing that is absolutely necessary is to think about this fact. I fear that the lack of a psychotherapy law opens up opportunities for non-professional earners who present themselves as readily accessible, affordable and convincing, and the patient has no opportunity to check their expertise and despair into even greater depths. In view of the fact that we do not have a law on psychotherapy, we must not, as a society, allow lubrication and irresponsibility. And at the height of the suicide rate, I'm afraid we're only helping with inertness to keep this devastating statistics going and going. Therefore, I ask you to cut this gap between different thinkers, come from the profession and official doctrines, allow half-illegal earnings to self-proclaimed mental healers and clearly define that the psychiatric and psychological professions are acquired at universities united in the professional chamber, the only mermaid for the quickest possible assistance to people who cannot live without it quality, cannot go on and one can not even live at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u125	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u126	I can agree that in this, let's say, in some way, the prestigious professional argument is collected by those who actually do not have much in common with the expert. On the other hand, there are also many people who need help, either psychotherapy or appropriate counselling. Slovenia is a country that still has problems ranging from suicide to various dependency on the problems of the elderly as a special group, and in fact this activity is also one of the fundamental parts of the rights that people should have access to. It will probably take some time to educate a sufficient number of experts in this area. I agree that we really need to get him fixed up as soon as possible. I'll try to do what I can, which is in my power.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Ambassador Dusan Šiško will raise an oral question to the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u128	Presidents and everyone else, a nice hello to you all. On the day my question went to the National Assembly, you went to my city and Posavje in order to get better acquainted with the issue of energy. I told you at the hearing that this is a very difficult topic for a journalist in this area, regardless of the fact that you also spoke about emergency intervention in energy at a press conference on 7 May 2020 on TV Slovenia. You listed three interventions, worth more than €260 million, namely: the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant, the transmission line to Hungary and the waste dump in Vrbina pri Krškem. At the same time, you mentioned that the construction of the landfill in Vrbina is not so urgent. Mr Minister, of course, I very much agree with you that the construction of the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant is necessary, but I cannot agree with you that it is not necessary to build a landfill of low- and medium-radioactive waste that we have been waiting for the Krkans and the power plant itself for 40 years. I have repeatedly pointed out this to both the President of the previous government and the competent ministers for the environment and space and to the infrastructure under which energy belongs. I have received many promises, including a forecast that the landfill will be in the middle of construction and that the next year will be in experimental operation. I'm asking you: At what stage is the project for the construction of the final landfill of low- and medium-radioactive waste in Vrbina? What about the amendment of the nuclear decommissioning programme of Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of low- and medium-radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u130	Thank you very much. And thank you for asking. Yeah, we were in Krske on Friday. Mr Šiška, I apologize for not sending a message to the Members and Members that we could also meet with you on the current issue when we were in Krk. I've already warned you this before when we talked in the hallway about this, our jobs, that when we go to the field, you're Members involved. In view of the security situation in Krk and in general, they may have decided not to do so. The vervain, the landfill of medium-radioactive waste, is an urgent matter that we urgently need. I also stressed this on Friday at the visit. However, as regards the entire project itself, Slovenia must fulfil all commitments under the Interstate Treaty with the NEK and, by 2025 at the latest, take over half of its waste from the current storage facility at the location of the NEK. To this end, the implementation of the landfill of low- and medium-radioactive waste in Vrbina is necessary. According to the information currently available at least at our Ministry, it is currently being concluded that all necessary building permits are being obtained. We also highlighted this at the press conference. In order to accelerate this project, the Ministry, with all involved, has established an active dialogue, we have made regular coordination at the monthly level in order, together with the competent environmental authorities, here in particular the ARSO, to find appropriate solutions that could enable the building permit to be obtained by the end of 2020. It doesn't matter if we only operate on facts, but it's only right that we put this in time. I believe that also the fellow Minister for Environment and Space is aware of these issues, that if we want to take a step forward, then the landfill is urgently needed for a possible decision on the placement of NEK-2. It's one of the most important conditions. As you are probably aware, after an incredible 15 years of final confirmation, as you mentioned, both required programmes under an interstate contract, namely the NEK decommissioning programme and the low- and medium-radioactive waste disposal programme of spent nuclear fuel. They have also undergone all internal procedures, they have been processed in both countries, both in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and in the Croatian Parliament. As the newly appointed President of the Slovenian delegation of the Interstate Commission, I will try to ensure that the Interstate Commission, which is responsible for their final adoption under the Interstate Treaty, meets as soon as possible. However, let me say that on our part we have already taken the initiative to meet with the Croatian side, because I am aware that the final confirmation of both programmes is the first key substantive step that will meet all the necessary expectations regarding the provision of the highest possible nuclear security in the country. If I finish. The vervain is also necessary from the title to run the investment flow. Definitely. We need investment, we need investment. That's when I mentioned it at the press conference, as you quoted me as not such an urgent matter, especially since I know how long environmental permits are being obtained. And we're waiting here. I also call on the ARSO and everyone involved to move forward as soon as possible. Once we obtain agreement from the ARSA, the building permit may begin to be built.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The next one will ask a question [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, sorry, you didn't raise your hand. Comrade Shisko, please, you have an additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u132	Thank you. Dear Minister, I'm glad you explained to me what you were doing in Krske in my Posavje. I personally accept the apology, with the other four Members of the same area, we were surprised that you did not invite us and I believe that this is not your task. As I told the previous government, I advocate ministers and secretaries of state that those who work in there, who are responsible, do not answer anything, but you as ministers then change like a running lane. But let's just leave it. See, especially Member Tomaž Lisec has been monitoring Posavina energy for a long time, and I, as a Krčan, am a direct participant in the process of placing low- and medium-radioactive waste disposal, which we have already confirmed in the municipal world long ago and will not be allowed to do so. Otherwise, it seems good to me that in your statement after your visit to Krka as a condition for the decision on the second reactor you listed the construction of a landfill for low- and medium-level radioactive waste and a storage facility for spent materials. However, at least in the media releases it was not possible to see how you would solve the problem with that part of the waste belonging to Croatia. Nobody talks about it. Nor did Foreign Minister Logar and Radman mention this problem that has international dimensions days ago. They should talk about it, too. I am warning myself that the Croatians have not taken this issue seriously at all, and that is why their part of the waste will remain in the yard of the power plant after the construction of the landfill in Vrbina. And that's what we need to start talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u134	Thank you. We want to talk. I said that we had given the Croatian side the initiative to reach an interstate meeting as soon as possible, even though it was their turn to meet or send us an invitation. There are now elections in Croatia. I believe that there is a lot of other work that Croatian policy has there, and I hope that this meeting will come as soon as possible with the Croatian side so that we can answer this question of yours. And our side has all the answers. We also have all the answers for Vrbina.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Ambassador Shisko, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u136	Thank you. Over the past 40 years, there have been all governments and representatives, and I don't know who else went to Posavje. They talked like this in Krka, in Bled, in Mokricah — everywhere so that I wouldn’t mention any sponsor too much. And they haven't done anything until today. This is proof that Slovenian politics and the state are not aware of the seriousness of the problem that already exists and even less that can arise if something goes wrong. In the past weeks, however, thanks to the results of the Coronavirus epidemic, we have also been able to recognize the many weaknesses and unpreparedness of our protection system for such cases. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues, have you ever wondered what it would be like to have a minor accident at a nuclear power plant and just a small contamination of the environment by radioactive radiation? You're not. Of course, I know that, at all levels of the municipality to the country, there are plans and training for such a case, but the opinions on how this would take place in practice are unfortunately different. I have already proposed a broader debate in the National Assembly on the issue of nuclear energy, but this has not been accepted. Therefore, I am also now wondering if I should make a proposal and not violate the Rules of Procedure, I will make a proposal to hold a debate under Article 246. Even with all the assurances made by Minister Vrtovac, I will propose this, and I hope that we will start talking in here one day, so that it will not be as the former Minister has told me that certain things are not serious, which I have also had the documents for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 May 2020, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Brana Golubovic will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and equal opportunities for Janez Cigler to the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! Recently, more and more prominent members of the coalition have ensured that now is the time when the focus from the health crisis needs to be focused on the implementation of the coalition contract. This is where my questions go. Your department is touched by chapter 2 of the Coalition Treaty, Youth, Family, Pensions and Social Affairs, which has 19 ambitious goals or promises made to the public at the time of signing this coalition treaty. At the hearing before the competent parliamentary committee on 10 March, you confidently announced that you would start working immediately on a well-known programme because the coalition contract is your timetable. I can understand that the implementation of the coalition promises due to covid-19 has been delayed for some time, but I believe that your services have prepared the necessary changes and additions to legislation, sub-laws and some other system documents, both at home and at the Ministry during the epidemic, which are important that now that this health crisis is over, you can fulfil the promises or commitments made by your coalition contract. Dear Minister, I ask you to answer: What measures will you take from the already mentioned chapter 2 of the Coalition Treaty? I am particularly interested in: What can the pensioners, who have been promised, besides the higher pensions already buried, a faster rate increase to 63.5% in four years, a higher minimum pension, a pension arrangement for the widow and the farmer, plus the completion of two homes for the elderly and the construction of at least five new homes, and what else can they count on? I ask you for an answer: What of the coalition contract, and we agree that everything is very important and many of it should already be realized, will you begin to realize this year and next year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much, Mr Golubovic, for this question. As you yourself mentioned, the focus has been since the beginning of our commitment to the fight to combat the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic and at the same time on effective rapid measures to help the population and the economy. We are still focused, with much or much of our strength and focus, on the preparation of measures for the exit strategy. As you know, the Ministry of Labour is also the carrier of this third measure of a package of legislative proposals for time after the epidemic. With regard to your question about the implementation of these commitments in the second chapter, entitled Youth, Family, Pensions and Social Affairs, I can say that we had these priorities in some way before our eyes at the time of the epidemic. As you can see, we helped or responded to the needs of a million 300,000 people with measures in the first and second antikron packages. We have included a number of vulnerable groups, we have helped to maintain 200,000 jobs, we have helped this economy to be best prepared for post-crisis time. We focused on the most vulnerable groups, which are also exposed to the 2nd chapter of the Coalition Treaty. Now that there is calming, as you said, and normalising the situation, my ministry will approach the implementation of those proposals in the coalition contract, taking into account the changed situation as a result of the epidemic. This is very important because we will be able to offer long-term effective solutions that will respond to this new situation. I may point out two more visible activities, two more visible priorities under the coalition treaty, on which we are already operating. The first part would have somehow slipped under the title Comprehensive Care for the Elders. We all know that at the time of the coronation, home vulnerability to the elderly, undernutrition, and financial malnutrition have been particularly evident. So we will have to offer solutions that will be able to meet these challenges. This has been gathering for more than 10 years now, so that we can certainly not solve everything in a short time, but we will have special attention here. We will provide additional places in the homes for older citizens, two completions of homes and five new homes, something with concessions and intensive use of European funds, as well as a public house that has not been built in Slovenia for 14 years. Here we also have some projects related to the provision of additional capacity for day-care and deinstitutionalisation. Another aspect of our attention, our work, which we started at the time of the epidemic, is a transparent and user-friendly system of social assistance. Our activities are already focused on demobilising the system of enforcement of public funds rights with a key objective, which I also highlighted at the hearing in the National Assembly, to make the system more transparent, useful and user-friendly, in short, more life-friendly. We are also exploring additional possibilities for better integration of records, which would lead to better and faster response to the assistance of unemployed people.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Ambassador Golubovich, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. I'd still like it if you could, if you answer me: When do you predict that you will be able to amend legislation that will increase the dose rate to 63.5% within four years? When will the minimum pension for a full pension reach the poverty risk threshold? Since you have spent quite some time in your response to the home for the elderly, I am interested in your opinion or position. As you know, in the List of Marjan Šarca we have advocated that the land, buildings and financial resources that are within the DUTB or the bad bank are simply transferred either to a housing fund or to a real estate fund, from which you can then finance such apartments for young people, you have this under point 1 in your chapter, as well as protected dwellings or housing funds for the elderly. You also know that there are homes for the elderly in Wroteba and in Osilnica, if I'm not mistaken, inside the so-called bad bank. I want to know: When will the increase of the dose rate be, when will the minimum pension reach the poverty risk threshold? These are your goals. What is your opinion that the funds and the land from DUTB are earmarked for homes for the elderly and for the young? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u144	Thank you very much. As you can see, in the coalition contract, the objective is also time-bound, i.e. to raise the dose percentage, which will rise in four years with faster dynamics, and we will also prepare legislative proposals to achieve this solution as soon as possible. With regard to the minimum pension and its approximation to the poverty threshold, it is also noted that the dynamics are conditioned by economic growth and budgetary options. In this regard, I maintain a good degree of optimism despite very poor forecasts of economic growth for 2020, as a global forecast for Europe and also for Slovenia is an optimistic forecast of the growth rate of 2021. Both once and for all, assuming that there will be no new epidemics or shocks, the vast majority of the objectives of the coalition treaty could also be met. With regard to the property that's on the bad bank, I can tell you that the Spin is on the DUTB, the Hound is not. However, with the team, our colleagues and I are looking for solutions that would be most prudent for public finances and at the same time simple, effective so that we can complete these capacities that are urgently needed for Slovenia and accommodate new residents as soon as possible. I may also mention that in 2020 and 2021, on the basis of the already announced invitation to tender, there will be an estimated 600 new cities. However, we plan to expand the public network of institutional protection for an additional thousand 100 cities already approved by the Ministry of Health. The call for these concessions will be published by summer 2020. Our goal is to provide enough cities and to respond to this demand for the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u146	Thank you very much. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the reply of the Minister be discussed at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 May 2020, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Tadej Šuštar will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for John the Brickler King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister! The legislative packages to prevent the spread and mitigate the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic also contained a number of measures in the field of labour market and employment. I want to know: What are the results of these measures and what positive effects have you experienced in the labour market since their implementation? What positive effects in the employment sector do you hope from the third marriage package to mitigate the effects of covid-19, where one of the key measures is subsidising reduced working time? I thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u150	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador Tadej Shuštar! The measures already taken in the first and second anti-korona packages covered a million 300,000 people. The main bearing measures in these two marriage packages to deal with the effects and mitigate the consequences of the epidemic were: waiting for work or co-financing of waiting for work, temporary financial compensation and posting of unemployed persons to do temporary or civil work in agriculture, exemption of both contributions to pension insurance for employers and the obligation for those working during the epidemic to pay a crisis allowance of 200 euros. There were, of course, many measures for many vulnerable groups in addition to labour market measures, but you have focused on the labour market. We have targeted these measures by maintaining as many jobs as possible and reducing the inflow to the unemployment record and at the same time ensuring material security, financial security for the unemployed. In preparing these measures in the first and second crowns, the government reacted quickly, thoroughly, and this is precisely why the beginning of the rise in unemployment in May is seen. There have been fewer applications to the unemployment register and this year-on-year inflow to the unemployment register has decreased considerably. In April, the annual growth was 190 % inflow, and in the first half of May this growth fell to 6 %. There are also more outflows to employment, with almost 40% more unemployed than in April of May. Employers have taken the waiting subsidy measure well. According to temporary data, by 18 May, we received over 45 000 employers' applications for remuneration for almost 265,000 jobs. We therefore estimate that we have protected the labour market of the worse shock. About 14,000 new persons have registered in the unemployment register at that time, mostly employees who have completed a fixed-term employment contract at that time. It is also essential to provide material security for the unemployed, and therefore we have adopted a temporary crisis financial compensation for unemployment for those who have lost their jobs and do not meet the conditions under the Labour Market Regulation Act for the receipt of monetary compensation. By mid-May, we had received 630 applications for this crisis compensation. You asked me after the third marriage package. For this marriage package, we are carriers at the Ministry of Labour, a carrier measure for the exit strategy, as well as this third package, is the subsidisation of reduced working time. In particular, the aim of this measure is to maintain employment, as was the case in the first and second anti-korona packages, while at the same time helping businesses overcome business damage while ensuring the economic and social security of employees. There are approximately 65,000 inclusions in this short-term work-life measure per month. It is envisaged that by the end of the year, as we have targeted, some 180,000 people could be involved in this measure. Our desire is to encourage the economy where possible, to activate as quickly as possible, so we have moved from paying or subsidising waiting to work to subsidising reduced working time. The experience of Austria, Germany and some other European countries shows that this could be the most effective measure for the exit strategy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u151	Thank you very much. It's a Magnificent message. Meira Hot will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u152	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! The local population, the tourist economy, the mayors, last but not least, members of Slovenian Istria have been reminding us of the problem and the negative consequences of the use of vignettes on fast roads during the border crossing of Škofija to Izola. In the previous composition of the government, we also addressed the then Minister of Infrastructure with the proposed solutions, which unfortunately was not implemented. Although Markovec tunnel was difficult to expect on a coastal fast road, it was an opportunity for a major part of the Slovenian coast to relieve the daily and transit traffic, thus exploiting the potentials that had been hampered by inadequate transport infrastructure decades earlier. Despite the long-term and much-needed infrastructure, negative impacts on the local population, visitors and the local economy remain. Because of the unfortunate vignette system, many drivers still use local regional roads through settlements instead of built fast roads. While adopting the spatial plan for the construction of the roads concerned, it was clearly stated that the aim of the construction of the unloading of transit passenger and freight settlements was, however, the actual situation remained the same or worse with the introduction of the vignette system. Thus, the effects on the local population and the environment are extremely harmful. The very negative consequences of the current regime also result in tourism, as the purchase of weekly vineyards for a one-day visit to Slovenia's Istria discourages visitors from the Italian side of the border, which traditionally represented an important proportion of guests of our tourist economy throughout the year and not only during the tourist season. In the end, the country does not receive or receive revenues from vineyards, nor from value added tax revenues that the tourist economy could generate. The current regime does not therefore encourage Italian guests on the other side of the border to turn their occasional one-day visits to the Slovenian coast into multi-day visits. On the contrary, in our view, the current system actively discourages these guests from visiting or diverting them away from the Slovenian coast, which has been a regular destination for their tourist visits for decades. The health crisis that we have suffered in the last two months, which has had a devastating impact on our tourism and on the sectors that are closely related to it, calls for reconsideration and new measures to help our tourism economy overcome the next very difficult months. Any action to attract additional guests and to revitalize our destination will be welcome. Personally, I think that one of such meaningful measures would be to help overcome the problems of tourism in Slovenia's Istria also to abolish the obligation to purchase vignettes for passenger cars on the whole route from the international crossing of Škofija to Izola. So I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: Are you inclined to abolish the obligation to use vignettes for passenger cars at the said section and thus help tourism and relieve local roads? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the question. Initially, it should be noted that in Slovenia, before the introduction of the vignette system, we had a so-called mixed toll system, open, closed. That toll system was completely unfair, as only 65% of the road traffic was actually tolled and 35% of the traffic did not pay the tolls. With the introduction of the vinite toll system, the vignettes became literally compulsory on all roads operating and maintaining Dars d.d. This means that the vignettes have become mandatory on several road sections where passenger cars did not pay tolls before they were introduced. This part of the fast road, the toll section between Škofija and Kopro, is also an example. However, it should be pointed out that the criteria for determining the toll road are laid down by the Tolling Act. This law also regulates this part of the H5 fast road, because these two sections meet the criteria for compulsory toll road, which means that the proposal for the suspension of vignettes or the exemption of the road section between Škofia and Isola from the vignette toll system cannot be accepted. We need to go directly to change legislation. One of the changes in legislation will take place very soon in this part of the law when we accept e-winners. In doing so, I should point out that the legal regime of the Tolling Act is also in line with the OTC agreements, as no provision can be found in the OTC agreements to enforce the obligation of any State Party not to introduce tolls in the border area. I understand the tourist potential on the coast, the intertwining of Italian guests who come to the border crossing of Škofija and can then buy a vineyard. But do you know what fear exists here? Any intervention in the existing toll system with a view to a different regime, which would be geographically limited to individual areas within Slovenia, could result in a situation as we had before the introduction of the vignettes, i.e. a situation in which users of a particular geographical area would be in an unjustified position. That's what we're weighing this cost-benefit. This would very likely lead to the collapse of the single toll system, which we have been working for a decade, as such tendencies would have appeared for various reasons in several parts of Slovenia. It wouldn't be just this part anymore, then we'd be talking about Brnčičev-Tomaceva, and the entire Rhonda Tomaceva, for example, the Ljubljana bypass. We'd open Pandora's box, where there's entitlement and where there's no justification for use. We are aware of the problems caused by the epidemic in particular by tourism and the coastal economy, but this must not be and cannot be the reason for the introduction of an ad hoc solution. This needs to be discussed more thoroughly. One of the opportunities will be, as I have already said, that the government will essentially open this legislation on its own. So we can discuss this, but let us, Madam Member, really realize that this can open up a long chain of questions about this or initiatives where to exclude all tolls. I think we're all aware of that together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Thank you for your answer, Mr Minister, which I must say was expected. This initiative, of course, is not new, it is not ad hoc, it is at least 10 years old and it is constantly repeated by both the local population and the economy, as is true local policy and, ultimately, representatives of the National Assembly. It is important to know that the transport situation in this area, linked to the coastal fast road, must be seen in an integrated and in the light of the specificity of this for the whole of Slovenia, a strategically important area. This is an area where space is particularly valuable and we must manage it for the benefit of all so that we can maximise the harmful effects and exploit the potentials of the built infrastructure of Slovenia and Slovenia. The shift of freight and transit traffic to fast roads means improved traffic safety in the surrounding areas, while facilitating access to Slovenian Istria provides an additional business opportunity for a local tourist economy which traditionally creates an important part of the revenues with one-day visits to guests from the Italian border. Nevertheless, we believe that it is a legitimate initiative and that it is also the basis in the OTC agreements, which say that the border state will commit itself to improving cooperation in the field of tourism and road infrastructure. We must not forget that on the Italian side 50 km of highway to Škofij is free of charge, as well as on the mountain side from Vrtojba to Villesee. The principle of reciprocity may also need to be taken into account in the spirit of good neighbourly relations. So we think it's an exception, which is justified, but it's an area where vignettes still don't buy because in fact consumers avoid fast roads and use local roads. So the country does not see the revenues from the vineyards, but would receive additional income from value added tax, which could be created by the tourism economy if you give it the opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u158	Of course, the initiative is perfectly legitimate and requires that we discuss this seriously once. We can go to the Club of Coastal Members and Members or from Istria to come with colleagues and colleagues to these talks because it is worth insisting. But we need some numbers before we decide. Thus, what would be the financial impact both for Dars when three, four seats were used without vines. We are talking about all of Cyprus, Isolums, Piranu, these are three large congregations that would not be included in the vinite system. I said we must have more numbers at our disposal and I think the initiative is perfectly legitimate, but today I cannot only answer the question of whether the Ministry will decide to exempt H5 and H6 from the toll road in the context of the opening of this law when we place e-vindictees. It's premature for me to answer that question today. However, the initiative is legitimate, I stress that we need to talk about it, because if this means encouraging additional tourism, that there will be more Italian guests with us, then I am first in favour. But first, we need more information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, the distinguished Minister has given me a point of view, because you have found it necessary to have a broader debate, a real debate, which will also have some basis in numbers, so that we can finally really examine all aspects of this initiative, which is so old, but which is, I really think is legitimate. Let us therefore hold one debate in the National Assembly. I therefore propose that the debate be held in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 May, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Natasa Sukić will ask the Foreign Minister, Dr. Anžet Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, chairman. Respectable. On 6 May this year, the Prime Minister of Hungary, Viktor Orban, re-enacted his famous provocation by publishing the map of Austria-Hungarian with the so-called Great Hungary, which is borderline before 1920, this time when he spoke to future seniors, who were reminded that after the end of World War I, two thirds of the territories, including part of the Slovenian territory or more of Prekmurje, were taken away from the Treaty of Triano. Orban has enjoyed a similar provocation several times. Like last year, before the 100th anniversary of Prekmurje's motherland. Minister, you have reported from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that, as in the past, you do not publicly comment on the publication of historical maps abroad in various contexts, such as research, school and exhibition, if they are not related to a clear intention or a reference to revisionism, otherwise we know, but you are gravely misleading the public and manipulating it. In the past, governments have responded to similar provocations. Let us only remember Antonia Tajani and his similar provocative statements concerning Italy and Dalmatia. At that time, the foreign ministry specifically stated, quote, "there have been attempts to unilaterally and selectively interpret historical events in the border area of Slovenia and Italy", the end of a quote that is not in the spirit of European values. Therefore, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not at all hold that in such cases the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has remained silent. It's not. But of course, now that your knees are clearly weak as a minister at the provocation afforded by Viktor Orban, a close ally – this is no secret – of the current Slovenian Prime Minister of the Government and of the man who – and this is not a secret – makes it possible to provide financial power to the media working for the SDS party. There's something else that's interesting. As foreign minister, you accepted the Hungarian Foreign Minister on your first visit, as if Slovenia were already a Hungarian province, not a separate country, immediately after the formation or appearance of your government. Why was it in such a hurry? You're the only one who knows. That's why I'm asking you: Has the Hungarian Prime Minister of Slovenia, apparently a puppetist government, already issued the first bill? Is that why you are so greedy and do not hope to send a proper diplomatic response to Budapest or at least express concern in a public statement? I'm asking: When will you finally respond to provocations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u164	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you for asking. Bilateral relations between Slovenia and Hungary are excellent. They are characterized by good neighbourly and well-balanced cooperation and regular political dialogue. These are the main points raised by former Prime Minister Marjan Sarec on his second visit abroad and stressed the need for good cooperation with Hungary. Furthermore, Hungary is one of the key markets or sources of Slovenian tourism. I believe that relations with neighbours are very important, and I believe that this tradition, as discussed by the previous Prime Minister, should continue in this mandate. With regard to the above-mentioned tweet you are exhibiting, namely the map of the Greek part of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the press release said that it is an objective representation of the political geography of the period 1867-1918 and is a representation of the political geography of a particular historical period, which in itself does not represent the historical revisionism or territorial claims of Hungary, as you are trying to indicate in your question of the mission. The MZZ has not publicly commented on these publications of historical maps unless they were related to the clear intention of revisionism or territorial claims. Since Hungary will mark the 100th anniversary of the Treaty of Triano on 4 June 2020 – some of you know what this is and some of you do not know – the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also closely monitor the event in Hungary in connection with the marking of the anniversary. Each country and nation has the right to mark their historical events, but, of course, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs expects these markings to take place in the spirit of common European values and respect for historical and other countries or nations. In this respect, we intend to closely monitor the future of all our neighbours. The question was that I received my first visit from Hungary. Here. At the request of the Hungarian Ambassador and then of the Hungarian counterpart, I accepted the Hungarian Foreign Minister's visit to Slovenia. If the covid-19 pandemic hadn't struck in the middle, I would certainly have accepted a substantial number of foreign ministers within these two months. This is how we plan these visits in the coming weeks and months if, in this we work hard in the government, there will be no other outbreak of the covid-19 pandemic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u166	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. Of course, good neighbors are important, but such provocations can make them hard. Even the government of NSI, which warned you about this Orban provocation and wrote on its Twitter, warned you, "that it expects Slovenian diplomacy to respond appropriately and to warn neighbouring Hungary of the inadmissibility of this kind of history teaching, which belongs to schools, and certainly not to modern politics". End of quote. This was also pointed out by the President of the State of Borut Pahor, who announced that he would point out this provocation to his Hungarian counterpart, Janos Ader, on his planned official visit in July this year. Croatian President Zoran Milanović, who returned to Orban in his style, also responded by telling Croatian seniors that many countries have historical maps in their archives when they owned larger territories. Croatia, too. I quote: “These are provocations of those who know well that these maps will remain in the closet. Learn from history, but look to the future." End of quote. That's what Zoran Milanovic tweeted. Such incidents, a well-respected minister who actually extorts nationalistic feelings when expressed by such important political figures as the prime minister of a country, must always be strongly condemned. And that's clear to everyone, but obviously not to you, so I ask you again: Will you finally start acting as Foreign Minister, or will you continue to remain silent, as you did in the recent German provocation, when Germany did not, for example, list us in the Schengen area? Will you continue to deal with dispatches that embarrass us abroad, or will you defend us against such provocations? I'm asking you one more time: When will you respond appropriately to this repeated provocation of Victor Orban? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an additional reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u168	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you for complementing the question. I have been acting alone as Foreign Minister since I swore here in the National Assembly, so that the time component when I will begin to serve as Minister for Foreign Affairs is not questionable. As regards the response to individual attempts to change history in the current debate, the Minister for Foreign Affairs always reacts when it considers it necessary to react. It should be noted, however, that we know the political response and the diplomatic response. You mentioned a few political responses earlier, but diplomatic responses are different. In any case, it seems to me that in this mandate, foreign policy in the National Assembly has begun to be very much discussed, as individuals can finally identify what is a dispatch, what is not a dispatch, and they are familiar with the work of the Foreign Minister. And this debate is also welcome to say that, say, as far as maps like this are concerned by Hungary, my predecessors did not respond diplomatically to such matters, they were able to react politically but did not react diplomatically. And we did a diplomatic response. However, in what way diplomacy reacts, you know that there are several procedures — from the ambassador’s call to an invitation or invitation to an ambassador to the ministry, to the Secretary of State’s call and so on — to a promotion. I can assure you that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has given a diplomatic response to this issue, but it is true that I do not want to make political responses like any other foreign minister. It was reported to the public that the former Foreign Minister had reacted to one of the similar cases. You won't believe it, he didn't act diplomatically, but he wrote one tweet to make it official for the local public. But, forgive us, we do not need political diplomacy, diplomacy operates according to its laws, according to its procedures, and only these procedures can be diplomatically effective, while maintaining the country's strategic objectives, as I have said in the introduction, have already been clearly highlighted by the previous Prime Minister in his relations with neighbouring Hungary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u170	Thank you. It is certainly a recurring provocation and it will also have to be politically clear and transparent, so that the public will know that we know how to stand up for ourselves. In the past, Viktor Orban has published these similar maps of the great Hungary. Last year he excited us with an announcement at the Hungarian National Association Festival, published in December a photograph of the meeting of his party FIdes under the disputed map. Great Hungary is obviously a real obsession for Orban. In 2018, a diplomatic scandal arose when a picture of Viktor Orban was published, which was shown to Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Jakub Morawick by the map of Hungarian Hungarian Hungarian Magna, which included today's Romanian Transylvania. While painting parts of Slovenia as stolen Hungarian, you obviously have to, Minister, I don't know why, perhaps because of your boss, who is filling your media with Euros and thus your pockets, you are to be greedy. I believe you may have done something diplomatic in the background, but we don't know anything about it. What Victor Orban does, of course, is not dangerous, for that is how every irreventism begins. First with an idea, then with ethical homogenisation, then with a review of history and finally with a change of borders. We would be naive to think that this could never happen at an appropriate historical moment. History teaches us that we can. That is why your response, which would be transparent for us citizens to know about it, and of course Slovenia's response, would be urgently needed. I'm afraid we haven't met him. The minister prefers to pursue some secret diplomacy, with disgraceful dispatches abroad that mud our media and our judiciary. The Minister, who should in fact protect the reputation of our country outside, instead shames the country with the lies it is wasting around. The minister, who should protect our sovereignty and inviolability of borders, is either silent or secret diplomacy at the expense of the expansionist escapades of Hungarian Prime Minister Orban and relativizes his provocations, if it is any scientific content. Such an attitude by the Foreign Minister is unacceptable and extremely worrying, and I propose that a general debate be held within the framework of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 May 2020, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Robert Pavšič will ask Health Minister Tomaž Gantar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u172	Thank you very much, chairman. Minister, hello! A number of things have happened in the past two months, which raise at least doubts about the quality of the data that you provide as a Government to us for consideration and analysis. This has proved to be particularly true in the field of procurement and state of the art and medical equipment. At the hearing before the competent parliamentary committee on 13 March, i.e. on the day of the current government's oath, you mentioned twice as a minister's candidate how many fans are available to the country. You both mentioned the number 168 and explained that it is free of 20 or 30 fans or more and that we will need more than 200 in a short time. The number 168 also repeats the government in its report on the situation, stocks and so on. However, some publicly available data show that a significant number of fans were available on 13 March. I'm asking you: How big is this number? You have certainly learned the data from the hospital directors, whom you referred to on 15 March for a joint meeting in order to “exactly identify what the hospital lacks, especially in relation to protective equipment”. End of story. The statement by Dr. Bojana Beović, head of the expert advisory group at the Ministry of Health, expressed after the meeting, is also eloquent. And I also say, "for respirators, there are how many of them there are, so how many intensive beds in Slovenia, which are supposed to be equipped, we need to re-identify all those potential respirators that are now being used for some other purpose." End of story. Dear Minister Gantar: How many fans did Slovenian hospitals actually have on 13 March – both university clinical centres, 10 general hospitals and Golnik Clinic? What information on the number of fans per hospital was given by the authorities, either the directors at the meeting or in response to your ministry’s written call to report on the supplies? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you for asking. In fact, it's 13. 3. there was no data available at the Ministry of Health. So we started collecting data on the one hand through information from hospital directors and, on the other hand, through those who handled or worked with them in intensive care units. I really got the information at the hearing that it was supposed to be 168, which didn't hold. Later it was said that this was an assessment of how much more they would need. But anyway, the number wasn't real, and the numbers we got from the hospitals were very different. If I can believe the data that I was able to obtain from the Intensive Therapy Coordinator during the epidemic, it was in hospitals at the time, which is somewhere in the middle of March or late March, 281. Then, in March, the clinical center bought six of them for its account, saying 287 by the end of March. In addition to these 287 items, 136 were purchased and distributed. So we come together to number 423 by the end of April. 30. 4. Thus, 423 respirators are located in 257 intensive beds for adults in Slovenia. The required number of respirators was estimated at around 400, due to the fact that a large proportion of respirators in the normal functioning of the healthcare system are also occupied with non-covid patients and that many respirators are also 15 years old and older and are already practically amortized and are not fully suitable for the treatment of covid-19 patients. So I think the current number 423 is the one that should be sufficient. Nevertheless, we still expect within the UKC, and also in the context of the procedures carried out during the epidemic, that we will get 90 more. Right now it's this number, and I think it's the right number, given that it comes from people who work with these machines.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u176	Thank you very much for your answer. I have to say, I'm just a little shocked, shocked. Why? Since it's obvious that the whole government is, right now, I'm not going to just tell you, it's a very scolding truth. This number 168 appears also in the Government report on 5 May. And this government report you've been preparing mediocrely. That's how we were guaranteed. No one was signed under this report. Now you're telling me that we had 281 fans at 257 beds at the end of March, but it was such a panic and "give us peace because we save lives". Now, in fact, it turns out that these items did not count in any way when it came to the purchase of equipment. Now there is no doubt, but now it is no longer just objective political responsibility, but now it is subjective responsibility. Under this report, which we have discussed, you are also signed as a member of the government. No one denied it. Now I ask you to identify yourself to what responsibility you bear as a minister and how much responsibility the whole government bears for misleading the public.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u178	As far as respirators are concerned, I have absolutely no bad conscience either, nor does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia need to have it. It is only necessary to know that the initial purchases, when, for the first time, the data were not clear from before, exactly what it is available to us, and, secondly, that when we started working in the context of this epidemic, but the exponential growth in the number of infected people, which would in the case of Lombardia, if we calculated it to our situation, would require only 10 to 5 million residents to observe at least 240 respirators and for other patients, a real assessment was made here in order for the case of a bad scenario, which we could not rule out at that time, to require about 400 respirators. 136 were purchased. Here is 281, which is data from somewhere in mid-March, and with the number we have available, 423, it is said that the purchased respirators, those who have so far been reasonably procured, were necessary and also necessary for a possible second wave of epidemics, that we have them at our disposal and, finally, replace those who were already scheduled for write-off, given that there are also respirators at a very high level of over 80% as part of the write-off of medical equipment. So I don't see any seduction or unnecessary purchase of these medical devices. It is true, though, that those where we then terminated or returned that we would not really be needed at this time. And that's why it was a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u180	Thank you very much. The fact that you didn't cheat, we're not going to agree. You deceived us Members at least when you gave us the wrong information in the report you provided, I will read to you: “Report on the condition, reasons, stocks and orders of personal protective and critical medical equipment”. So about the condition, the reasons, the supplies. The key data differs by more than 100 %. If it's not a delusion, then I don't know, it totally doesn't matter. And now throwing up the whole thing again with some rhetorical attempts at covid Struk told you that some of these fans without additional equipment are not suitable for treating covid patients. [[…]] That's what the profession said. From the extra equipment in your report, I've only seen four pieces if we're talking about Sirius R30 fans. But you're going to deny your own information. Therefore, Mr President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that this matter be clarified in public as necessary and that, at last, once or in doubt, they be confirmed or rejected. But you didn't answer me, and you might be able to, if this thing goes through, and I believe it won't go, at the next meeting on whether or not someone here has political responsibility. We asked ourselves this question because other responsibilities will be identified elsewhere and we see that mistakes occur countlessly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 May 2020, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Soniboy Knezak will ask the Minister for Environment and Space Mags a question. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u182	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister! After decades of mining and hundreds of kilometres of mined pits, the population of the municipalities of Zasavska region has already faced many problems, resulting from mining, from beatings and reptiles all the way to trespassing in residential buildings. All this, as I said, is due to long-standing mining. This year, at the end of the year, RTH ends its business. Therefore, the inhabitants of Zasavje are reminded that the promise of former Minister Zajc and his predecessor has not yet been fulfilled, that, until the closure and official liquidation of RTH, appropriate legislation will also be adopted, which will regulate the area of monitoring of mining areas. Unfortunately, this has not yet been accomplished, but it is approaching 31. 12. when RTH will also officially complete its work. That's why I'm asking you this: Are you aware of the requirements of local communities for a system-wide environmental monitoring system that is supposed to provide adequate control over mined areas, regulate the responsibilities of the monitoring operator and, of course, regulate the financing of decommissioned areas as well? When can we expect a law on the implementation of monitoring, in which local communities, of course, would also like to participate? I thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u184	Thank you very much, distinguished Member. Yes, the answer to the first question is – yes, I am aware of the initiatives. I am also aware of the agreement you had last year between the local communities and the former, which was then the Secretary of State. And you have agreed nicely, because you yourself know that this issue belongs to another ministry, this is the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is currently also a carrier of activities and policies to close mines, to employ mines in general, and also within this ministry this monitoring programme 2018-2023, which is being carried out or is supposed to take place through the current RTH company. And that this initiative has resulted in an initiative that the Ministry of Infrastructure, as a mother, has also led to the Ministry of the Environment and Space in connection with the issue of monitoring after the mining rights have been dryed up or when this will only be a post-save observation of the surface. This initiative has not yet been taken up by the Ministry of Infrastructure. When he arrives, we will be happy to discuss this too. Of course, this is linked to additional means of ensuring this monitoring. It's a few hundred thousand euros, if not millions a year. So it's geotechnical observation, it's also the observation of drained water, groundwater and the like. And if we deal with the Ministry of Infrastructure this year, when this is to be settled, we will also deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u186	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, I thank you for this answer. I hope that we will resolve this responsibility between one ministry and another, because we intend to call for coordination in the framework of the Sava House of Members in a short period of time, to move this promised project forward or to bring about the realization of what we deserve in Zasav. You know that we have been an energy-intensive region, that we have the centres of cities, at least in Hrastnik, and in Trbovje, literally over miles of mine shafts, which are mostly water-filled; and that there are consequences. As I said, sometimes the safety of these people is seriously threatened. I'm not asking you or I'm not asking you to discuss it any further, because at least from what you've told me, I see you're aware of this problem. I hope that this year's case will be settled, as was somehow promised. I looked back a little bit. In the original version of the law on the closure of RTH, this monitoring was also arranged, and then no one in this country can explain to me why this one section of the law governing it has failed. It is not a specific requirement, but merely a desire to ensure that when the country terminates an activity in our place, like all others in this country, it provides us with adequate, particularly healthy and safe conditions for living. Let me tell you, you probably know the information that after the closure of the thermoelectric Trbovlje, which the country is also successfully destroying, remains a huge ecological debt — a hill with nine million tonnes of electro-filter ash, which everyone claims is not dangerous. N.E.S. tells us that we have a significant increase in cancers and more. We're not mammals. I don't know how trusting we are. In short, I will not make a request for a debate; I hope that we will settle this this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The minister doesn't want to add anything either, so let's move on. Ambassador Luke Moon will ask the Minister of Finance mags a question. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! Slovenia, the Slovenian government has often boasted that we are the first in Europe. Last week we were able to read a number of praises in domestic and foreign media, especially Prime Minister Janez Janša and Government speaker for covid-19 Jelko Kacin, in which everything was supposed to be the best, but they forgot to say one thing. And this is that in Slovenia we are the second in Europe by one indicator, which we cannot possibly be proud of – and this is the rise in unemployment. The European Commission carried out a study in April investigating how many people lost their jobs in individual countries of the European Union during the coronary crisis. It turned out that more than in Slovenia, where more questions were raised about whether they had lost their jobs or cancelled their employment contract, only in Greece, 41.8%, answered 36.8% of our questions. Home - based indicators are not very encouraging either. According to data from the Employment Office, in the first months of this year, between January and April, 38 000 727 unemployed persons were registered at the new establishment, which is a 46% jump over the same period last year. This did not happen in itself, but mainly in the light of government action. Government measures, as I have already said before, have largely missed the targets. In the first anti-korona law, you promised between €2 billion and €3 billion in assistance to citizens and the economy. Up to 15. 5. Only 350 million or about 20% of this amount were paid. In the Loan Postponing Act, you promised that the government would allow for the freezing of credit payments to businesses and the population. In Slovenia, we have a total volume of bank loans of around EUR 20 billion and banks of up to 15. 5. Only a good 260 million loans or 1.3 % were frozen. The liquidity law was a month and a half behind compared to comparable European countries and up to 15. 5. No State guarantee has been issued to ensure the liquidity of companies. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Secretary: What are your projections for the next few months, what should people expect, what kind of unemployment, what kind of economic crisis? What can guarantee us that the third corona package will be different from the first two?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u190	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for the question. This is a very interesting question. Assessment of these measures or packages. And, of course, the assessments given by some institutions. This gives some international institutions an assessment of how much money each country has invested for people and how much for businesses. And in one of these, Slovenia is 7th in the world. Here, of course, is the matter of methodology. If we look at other institutions, how much of this money has actually gone into the economy and between people, then Slovenia is also among the leaders in this area, which, of course, you will be able to trouble yourself when you say that the deficit is indeed too large and in this regard all the spending in this regard. As you mentioned, there is also a survey, and I don't know these polls, on the basis of which people were asking who lost their job; and here is 36%, as I understand it. The data are at the Employment Institute and certainly these data are not encouraging. In some ways, in view of the crisis that has taken place during this coronary epidemic, it is likely that the economy is adapting in such or other ways and that, of course, employment is decreasing or unemployment is increasing. As to whether these coronations are the reason for this; I would say no, because according to the data I have here, more than 33,000 self-employed persons received extraordinary support in the form of basic income in April. 33 000 in the form of basic income. In May – more than 35,000 self-employed. This means that this measure in the form of a basic income has achieved its objective. In other words, so many and so many people have fulfilled that statement and have actually received this measure. Also in April, 51 000 581 students and 303 thousand 224 pensioners received solidarity assistance. Therefore, I certainly cannot agree that these measures have not achieved what they should actually. Of course, such measures, as has been said, in the first and second packages, were aimed at preventing a health tragedy, focusing mainly on financing health care; and thus increasing the number of unemployed as they actually are. Today the number 250 000 has already been mentioned, but we have never claimed that such measures would actually prevent an increase in the number of unemployed. In fact, this is impossible, it cannot be sustained by any economy, so that in the wake of the epidemic, when we actually stop businesses, when companies are stopped, when public life is stopped and so on, more people actually get a job. From this point of view, that's impossible. Of course, it is possible that life has been made easier for people, as an increased allowance for a large family has been paid to 29 thousand 150 families; a single solidarity allowance to vulnerable groups for 48 thousand 710 people. And what might be most important here when I answer this question is that 151 thousand employees have been paid compensation for waiting for work. That's 151 grand. And for 160,000 people, social security contributions were also paid. These measures have reached people and have improved [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u192	Thank you. This research, which I am mentioning, has been done by the European Commission and I do not believe it was done just through the finger, but they probably have some reliable methodology behind it. Secondly, when you talk about aid effectiveness, you basically listed exclusively social measures – basic income, solidarity allowance for pensioners and students, waiting for work for employees. I asked you in particular about the effectiveness of your measures for the economy, where the picture is the one I described earlier. The payment of the 2-3 billion anti-korona package, the payment of 350 million, the deferral of credits has not come to life, the state aid scheme has not yet come to life and you have been delayed for two months because you have only adopted the necessary regulation on 13 May which could only be in force. In this context, I am not concerned that Slovenia, as a social state, would not be able to pay aid for those who will lose their jobs; I am concerned about how many people will lose their jobs. And that is the essence of my question, Mr. Shircelj. I wonder if I can say it again: First of all, what are your projections, what should people expect in the coming months, what kind of unemployment leap, what kind of depth of recession, when will the bounce be? And secondly, how can they be confident if the economic measures in your first and second packages did not work, but will be in the third? Because we accept it, as I said this morning, unfortunately in a very similar way to the previous two. Overnight, the meeting is scheduled for tomorrow after midnight. This is probably done in order to eliminate the opposition and the public concerned as much as possible from the decision-making process and to enact laws such as those you have prepared in the government, where in the first and second attempts you have shown that [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u194	Thank you very much. I'll complete my answer. After three days, this government passed an economic law, namely the suspension of all taxes and the freezing of loans to the economy and the population. I don't now hold my breath for how many days, but I think this law was passed in the first week when the government actually came. And this was a measure for the economy. This is a measure that indirectly affects liquidity and, above all, liquidity. In short, companies no longer need to pay taxes if I simplify; and they no longer need to repay loans. These were the first two measures and the first two laws. Then there was package one and there was package two. Already in package one was given a guarantee for an economy of EUR 200 million. And this law is actually being implemented. I am not saying that this is long-term or medium-term enough; we later adopted another law, but this law is being implemented. On the basis of this legislation, 22 000 230 applications for payment deferrals and 267 million Euros were received under the Intervention Action Act. We reacted immediately. If any other government had reacted so quickly, we probably would not have been able to do so so quickly. And this was an urgent measure for the economy. They immediately stopped paying all taxes and stopped paying credit. Action is now coming through the Bank's SID, and I will also talk about it today because there is another issue in this regard; and, of course, there will be other liquidity measures. And measures will come to increase consumption, and there will be vouchers in the field of tourism and so on. I'm sorry, I think that these measures were thoughtful, strategically oriented, and we didn't start with the third package as a first step. These measures are now aimed at driving the economy and at increasing production, sales and, of course, reducing unemployment or actually reducing unemployment on the basis of the start-up of the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u196	Thank you. The Minister has both used the answer to my question mainly to demonstrate the effectiveness of the measures for which he himself is the first man of government. But he didn't answer my questions. The questions I've asked twice are very clear. First of all, what are the projections for the next few months? What should people expect, in terms of what kind of unemployment, what kind of economic downturn, when they reflect? Secondly, how can they rely on economic measures to be more effective than they were in the first two packages. If I renew, many of the aid remained unused under the first anti-coron law, under the liquidity law and also under the loan freeze law. And I am concerned that the government will also draw up a set of proposals in the third package, which will remain largely unused in practice. The first two packages have shown that the measures are often too bureaucratic, too strict and too restrictive. And since we will face the worst recession in recent years — at least this is how domestic and global macroeconomic institutions predict — it would be necessary to discuss how we will face this recession and what we can expect in the coming months. Not only Minister of Finance and Government, it is our duty to report to the people. People need to know what's ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 May 2020, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Nik Prebil will ask the Minister of Public Administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Colleagues, colleagues, respectable minister! The new Coronavirus has indeed changed most of the work processes, and in some activities this process has decreased, while in others it has increased significantly. Employees were even more at risk of developing a new virus. Employees in health and social welfare institutions as well as the rest of the public sector know that they are entitled to two allowances. The first is that supplement to work in a risky situation already regulated by the Public Sector Collective Treaty; and a new temporary supplement to safety and special burdens during the epidemic, which is up to 100 % of the hourly rate and has been enacted by the first anti-korona law. The decision on who is entitled to this and to what extent is in the hands of the chairman, but should not be more than 100 % of the hourly item. In the LMŠ Group, we have been following this matter since the beginning, and with all the assurances made by government representatives that this money is sufficient to ensure that the work is properly rewarded, even double-paid, if necessary, we have really hoped that the country with this government will provide a suitable path and care for the overburdened and those employees who have actually burned out at the time of the epidemic and who have been exposed to others. Unfortunately, we now find that reality is different. As it has been shown so far, the government is quite confused about paying these supplements, because in some institutions employees have not received any supplement, where the supplement was paid only for a few hours, not for the whole working time, sometimes only after the collective agreement and nothing after the intervention law, that is to say UKC Maribor. On the other hand, some institutions have not received any financial resources from the State. The homes of pensioners in general, and even at the time of the epidemic, as we have experienced it now, we know that one of the key institutions in the country is and the elderly must be one of the primary concerns of the government. The homes of older citizens have become some kind of a hotbed of infections and employees in their work have been really burdened, and not paid in full for this. That is why, Minister-respected, I would ask you specifically, but I would ask you not to rely on individual articles of the collective agreement laws, because we know this: How much budget have you allocated for the payment of both allowances directly to the health department or establishments and how much for employees in social security and the homes of older citizens? What is this new state financial injection to reward the most exposed in the epidemic? And I would also ask if you could define yourself: How do you, as ministers, see these differences between payouts and award arbitration? Is this justly arranged now, and why has it not already been done?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u199	Thank you very much. First, I give the floor to Minister Boštjan Koritnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u200	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greetings, Members and Members of Parliament! Today's the first time I've played this part. Thank you, too, Mr Prebil, for the question. I'll try to be as specific as possible. However, I must stress, as you mentioned or yourself explained, that we have two supplements. The government has provided funds from the state budget for both. One supplement is from a collective contract for the public sector, where beneficiaries are exclusively public servants who are not directors, and this supplement has been activated for the first time in history. What is crucial is the condition for payment of this supplement that specific work is carried out under dangerous working conditions in accordance with the Commission’s interpretation. Just declaring an epidemic isn't a good reason, so it's not automatic. The second supplement is under Article 71 of the GIUZEOP, which was a completely new supplement introduced by the Government for danger and special burdens only during the epidemic. To this end, this is potentially justified by all employees in the public sector, including Members. The condition, however, is the over-average exposure or over-burden due to the control of the epidemic. As you yourself have pointed out, it is a common point or a point of contact, they do not exclude each other, but together they can achieve only 100 % of the hourly rate. What the government has done is to provide funds. The question is why not all of them received this supplement. The answer is quite simple. The Presidents of these employees have not submitted an application to the Ministry of Finance. According to data from the end of the last week, less than half of the beneficiaries – for example, claims for patients came mainly from the health sector – submitted this request. And it's logical that there can be no payment without a claim. On the basis of the requests, the allowances will be accounted for back, i.e. from 13 March, from the declaration of the epidemic. So far, about EUR 37 million has been spent in March and April, and so many applications have been received. Of these, there are 30 million to be added under the collective agreement and 7 million to be added after the ZIUZEOP. Why are there differences in payouts? My answer is general. It does not refer to any particular department or activity. The differences stem primarily from this fact that it is reasonable to assume that there are differences between the employer and the employer as well as differences within employers regarding exposure to health risks and the burden. And that's what employers know best. However, the direction of the Ministry of Public Administration and individual ministers was that the leaders, who know these circumstances, know the nature of the work of an individual, the involvement of an individual in the functioning of their institution at the time of the epidemic is best known by them; and they are the ones who have to determine it. The basic criteria were given. We have received an explanation from the Commission for the interpretation of the collective agreement. As it is said, it is those who know the individual circumstances. However, with regard to social welfare institutions, I would like to give the floor to my colleague, Brickler King.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The word is given by Minister Janez Ciegler King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you very much, Comrade Cortnik. Thank you, Ambassador Nick Prebil, for the question. My friend Kortnik presented the global picture very well. As far as social institutions or social welfare institutions are concerned, it is because it is in health care in the question forecast. For health care, as we understand each other, I have no authority to speak. However, as regards social welfare institutions, as a colleague of the Minister of Public Administration has said, we have sent a guidance on how to prepare internal acts for the purpose of transparent distribution of funds. In this regard, they should define all the criteria on the basis of which individual groups of employees will be justified to receive these supplements. The Ministry has determined the volume of funds per budgetary user and issued conclusions. By the previous week, around 90% of the requests for a transfer of funds had been received for March 2020. For the time being, we do not yet have value.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Member Nick Prebil, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Thank you for your answer, too. However, I would like to complete my question. I have received numerous messages, as well as probably colleagues, from nurses, institutions and doctors, that there are difficulties, that some clear information is not that hospitals and institutions have any problems with liquid liquidity, which, of course, also raises the problem of paying these supplements. We could also see in the public a number of different payments, such as between directors of establishments and nurses, that those who were in direct contact with the patients received a smaller supplement under this first coronary law than, for example, directors who paid a higher one. And this passage personally seems unfair and unfair to me, if I may say so. Such a breakthrough does not somehow involve a democratic society where things should be clearly arranged — who, when, and how it is exposed or burdened. And so once again, I want to know: In your opinion, are these measures, in view of what I am warning, appropriate or not? Is there anything you want to fix? Once again, how will you ensure that those who have been overburdened and more exposed get paid? I believe that the purpose of this was certainly good, but it may have been poorly accomplished. The fact that you have fully placed your responsibility on the leaders also shows that certain leaders have this arbitrariness and they dictate these supplements in principle – I like you, I don't like you. There is also the exploitation of workers to work on weekends without an annex to the contract, then they had to use these hours, vacations and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Minister Boštjan Kortnik, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u206	Thank you. Thank you for this addition. We are certainly aware of the problems in the field, of the specific problems. Information is also coming to us and, within our powers, we daily try to inform the leaders. I should have corrected you here a little bit. Such responsibility has already been given to the chairpersons in accordance with the applicable legislation, the Law on Safety and Health at Work, i.e. the employer or its chairman assesses the risk or risk of individual jobs. What you mentioned was that the gap in this antikron supplement, if I may say so, is, as a percentage, we must not forget that we have two supplements. The directors of the allowance under the collective agreement are not entitled, which means that employees, i.e. health workers, can receive this allowance. I also think that most, at least I know about UKC Ljubljana, have received this, which means that basically more than 35% can't get it, so the 35% supplement is the maximum that belongs to it; while the directors - I'm not talking about any specific case because these data come to the Ministry of Finance or to individual departments - they didn't have these limitations because they don't have a bonus under the collective agreement. However, I certainly believe that by informing the press daily, we have prepared a special briefing at the Ministry, guidance also for journalists to understand where the president's responsibility is, how the cut was made. I believe that this will ensure that payment is made to all those who are entitled to the allowance as soon as possible. Individual anomalies, what you mentioned about the use of annual leave, and — hand to heart — are not bound to an epidemic. Existing legislation already allows for the persecution of such acts. If this is within the competence of the Ministry of Public Administration and it is the public sector, of course, we will respond appropriately and quickly to any such information. Thank you. I give my word to my fellow minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u207	Minister Janez Brickler King, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u208	Thank you very much. A brief addition. As you know, it is under the auspices of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for several budget users. As you have already said, and the colleague Koritnik has reasoned, the amount of the allowance shall be decided by the chairman or the official in accordance with the law. After our experience from what we have received so far, the good leaders accept this responsibility and are very well aware of it. They will have to provide transparent justification and clarification by means of an internal act, identify the work and tasks performed under hazardous working conditions, the tasks where employees have been over-burdened and the time when the public servant has performed work and tasks in hazardous working conditions or has been super-averagely burdened; taking into account all relevant specifications relating to individual occupational groups of employees. We believe that this will satisfy the condition of transparent and fair distribution. However, if that is not the case, as my colleague Kortnik said, there are already mechanisms to prosecute other anomalies.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u209	Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Chairman. In one part, I can certainly agree with ministers, but in one part I cannot, because I think that at least in the other part of the supplement we should make this more clear in the law that was passed, which we have also warned about, and unfortunately we have not heard. I think that people still deserve, even those who have worked, if I may put it this way, in the first battle lines, to get answers, and above all to get what they were promised, because that is what they now expect. We know that these things were very much sung in the beginning, even the Prime Minister of the Government tweeted that everyone would get paid extra, even double. In the beginning, even 200% of the supplement was talked about, and then somehow it blew up. Because of these uncertainties, which continue to arise and which are also pointed out by the social welfare institutions, hospitals and other health institutions, I would like to draw some clear conclusions and perhaps come together to a solution that would more comprehensively and more accurately cover the payment of such supplements, in particular to give people and workers answers. Therefore, the President would ask the Parliament to vote on this proposal in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 May 2020, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Joseph Lenart will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to John the Brickler King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u212	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. All the guests present, the Minister and Ministers, the distinguished Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mr Janez Cigler King. With anti-Korona packages, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has allocated extensive resources to maintain jobs in the form of paybacks to wait for work. Nevertheless, workers in the metal industry and constructions point out violations of the labour law and the rules related to measures to mitigate the consequences of the Coronation during the epidemic. An employee in the metal industry at the employer in Maribor said that he had been on hold for several days in the previous month and worked for a few days. The so-called 80 % salary compensation was paid for the waiting period and 80 % of the normal salary plus the crisis allowance was not paid for the working days they carried out in their company. Thus, it is likely that the worker has been declared on hold and has been working, otherwise it is not going together to have a 20% lower salary than before; the contract has not changed. A similar case we have heard about the employer from the Celje area, and then there were some indications on construction that mistakes were also made. Thus, employers have partly saved on these measures. I have learned that in fact some people have recorded that workers have been paid back for protection against infection at home, and in fact they have been working for them for some of this time. I want to know: How should these injured workers act in both cases? Is sufficient human resources to monitor this to further monitor similar violations of labour law?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you very much, Ambassador Joseph Lenart, for this question. This is an important area and, of course, our concern is, in addition to maintaining employment with this first and second anti-korona package, including the third, that these measures should not be misused. And this can't be happening. However, as I will put forward in my reply, we also have some guardians in the law itself, that this is not happening, or that if it is discovered, it is properly sanctioned. Control over the implementation of the intervention law to contain the covid-19 epidemic in the work relating to compensation for employers for temporary waiting and absence for reasons of force majeure and for the crisis allowance, as regulated by 21–31. Article 33(2) and Article 33(2) shall be carried out by the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work. Therefore, in the event of infringements, workers should contact the inspectorate through any communication channel or the competent regional units of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work. In all other cases of infringement of labour law, workers should also contact the Labour Inspectorate. If the employer pays the employees salaries, determines the overtime or does not inform the employment agency that he has called the workers back to work, as you have presented, the funds received must be returned at three times the amount. When we drafted legislation, we set the example of some European countries with a very high level of risk. The three-fold amount of funds recovered is certainly high and we estimate that a sufficient penalty has been put at risk. In addition to a three-fold refund for these infringements, a fine of EUR 3 000 to 20 000 is imposed and the inspectorate may impose a fine at any prescribed level. A fine of between 3,000 and 20,000 euros is also at risk for non-payment of the crisis allowance for those working during the epidemic. The Inspectorate, as I have been regularly informed, has already begun to monitor the implementation of these measures under the law on intervention measures to combat the epidemic, but the procedures are largely ongoing, are not completed; therefore, I cannot give you concrete information on the findings yet. Administrative and financial supervision of compliance with the contractual obligations of employers is carried out by law by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment. They also asked whether the Labour Inspectorate was adequately strengthened to carry out this monitoring. Over the last two years, the number of inspectors has increased and the Inspectorate has also been working on various organisational measures to maximize its effectiveness. I estimate that, at present, there is an adequate human resources improvement in the implementation of these laws and of all labour law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u216	Thank you very much again for your words, and also, Mr. Minister, thank you for your answers. Frankly, I'm glad you've got things under control, but I've got another brief question. You have had effective measures, I am glad that there are actually fewer people in the employment agency than there would have been if there were no such measures. But once again, in March we had 75,000 unemployed, now there are about 90,000. You said the measures were taken well. I want to know: Are there some who are now unemployed who are actually returning because they were on the so-called waiting list or perhaps temporarily unemployed? And I will say this, too, that it could be current, if we have actually earmarked a lot of funds for something, then of course we must prevent these abuses in advance so that our budgets are not weakened even more than they will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you very much, Mr Lenart, for this addition to the question. As far as labour market measures are concerned, they have been very targeted. In early or mid-March, at the beginning of our mandate, we estimated that some 260 thousand jobs could be at risk during these months of the epidemic. The measures actually cover around 260 thousand working months; the obvious economy has received what it needs for this time of epidemic; therefore, the inflow to the unemployment register has certainly been lower than it would have been. True, the number of registered unemployed has risen from mid - March to today from 76,000 to about 90,000. It is gratifying, however, that there is already an increasing outflow to employment, that the growth of registered unemployed has calmed down somewhere in early May, towards mid-May, and so far no greater growth is expected. We are responding to the needs of the economy, as a result of which the labour market does not increase this number in the unemployment register. We estimate that this short-term measure can benefit up to around 180,000 employees by the end of the year. We believe that this will preserve a large number of jobs, which is a key objective of our legislation relating to the labour market.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simoni Kustec Lipicer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u220	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, a lovely greeting on my behalf as well! I already addressed to you in mid-April the question of when individual categories of children can be expected to return to school. I also asked for some information on what your thoughts are, what are the key factors in deciding which children will return to school and which ones will not. I received a fairly general response, namely that the possible return of students to school depends on the medical profession. In my work, when I asked how the government imagines that individuals who have already or will start working normally will take care of their children’s protection and parental care, you — or I know that your services — have responded that protection for students during school holidays is not regulated either in the compulsory or in the extended primary school curriculum; in accordance with the rules, the primary school can organise so-called superstandard programs. And then something about these superstandard programs. In short, an answer I didn't even understand what it was about. In view of what has happened in between, I am repeating my question today. We're here in the National Assembly, and maybe it's also the right time to say if there's anything more known about this. Personally, I think that when deciding when and which children will return to school as a society, we cannot rely solely on doctors, specifically NIJZ. Their opinion is, of course, very valuable and very important, but there are other factors that the professional public has recently pointed out, namely psychological, educational, educational factors that must also influence when and how children will return to school. So in this first part, maybe your first feeling or your response to this: How did this first week go, how did it go? Then I have a question about further plans: What will be your efforts in further activities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Member Kociper, fellow Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Maybe a few numbers first, to see what the first week of this so-called gradual and partial return to educational institutions, as we call it. I'll also explain why that's the name. As you know, there have been as many children back in kindergarten as the kindergartens have been able to return under all these guidelines put in place by NIJZ. About half of all kindergarten children have returned, and this is also the maximum under the current NIJS guidelines, which are also overcome by kindergartens, institutions and employees, so that this educational process in kindergartens can run smoothly. As for primary schools, however, students and students of the first triad returned. This return was, I must say, very successful. 95% of all first-triad students returned in the previous week, of which nearly 60% were included in extended stay. A total of 11 000 170 teachers and teachers returned to school, which means almost two thirds of all teachers and teachers in the country, who then carried out educational work either in schools or from the school for students and students at a distance. As for secondary schools or final years, about 90% of all those students and students in the final class, or graduates and graduates, returned last week, primarily in order to consolidate their substance and prepare for their graduation or final exam. Why can we, and why have we returned in this way to the first wave of time in the way we are? On the one hand, of course, we had to follow the assessments and orientations of the epidemiological and health professions under which this return can be safe, of course in terms of the primary health of all those involved in these processes, and of course all those with whom they are then in social contact when they come out of kindergartens and schools. This was where the green light was needed, let's say. On the other hand, we are talking about the teaching profession or, let's say, the management of the schools themselves, where we first had to get arguments, why and under what conditions those generations or those groups of students most urgently in need of class education are. And these, of course, are those schoolchildren who are still entering the first period of education and education and for whom direct contact in school is crucial. On the other hand, we had to be in constant contact with the principals and principals to tell us how much they were able to carry out the whole process under all these so-called epidemiological requirements and the ability to perform the whole process in a manner that is good and quality. And here came this first assessment, on which we then decided to take this first possible step through constant monitoring, observation, including the collection of impressions and information as very good in the previous week as positive, as extremely necessary both from the point of view of the students themselves, children in kindergarten as well as all the educators, teachers and teachers who are, of course, the heart of this education. Indisputably, it has proved that life has returned to these institutions, and this is the natural first place where education and education must take place. That's all I can do right now, and then I'll move on to the second part.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u224	Yes, as foretold, I would now like to expand my question and ask for an answer. Minister, you have now explained these health factors and also the solutions proposed by the school management. But I would now spend a few minutes, or seconds in this case, focusing on other issues related to non-health aspects. I have a lot of articles ahead of me, including the Society of Psychologists, and some principals, especially the petition, and so on; all of them are the same common thread – not just the health of children, but also the psychological state of children and what they are deprived of by not going to school. Some even talk about the violation of the right to attend school and the constitutional right to education, so that only some but not others are allowed to attend education. I might not have gone so far as to be in violation of constitutional rights; however, the fact that all children are entitled to education is a fact. In my opinion, home schooling is in no way comparable to schooling. On another occasion, you said it was quite comparable. Me and many think that it is not; even though schools carry out this school very differently. We talk a lot to our parents, and I talk to my mommies. Schools sometimes also provide a lecture through internet connections, in other schools, for example, in mine, except for the fact that children get what they need to read and what they need to look at, there is no direct exchange of information. Rather, the exchange of information is only in the sense that you are doing well, not in the sense that someone is teaching them the substance, as is necessary in school. Because I'm talking about children from the 4th to the 9th grade in particular here, and because all these experts have warned about how big the consequences can be that they don't go to school for so long and are socially excluded, and according to yesterday's statement, [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u225	Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Maybe I should go on with this, I said that we've come up with a different line of pillars together, a decision that is at this point in time, in a given situation, especially in the context of an epidemiological picture, as it is. We believe that in the coming period, the assessment of this picture will improve very soon, and in this case we will get much more room for manoeuvre so that we can actually open the door even more wide. Since I have a similar question to your colleague very soon, perhaps a little more or even longer than that. There's only one thing I'd like to explain. Everything we have done has been done on the basis of guidelines, guidelines, recommendations that these pillars of the profession have, of course, prepared. On the one hand, there is this medical work, a health epidemic work through the NIJ. On the other hand, the Education Institute is the one who prepared these educational guidelines and instructions. And the Institute of Education has done this in a wide range of experts – experts coming from universities, from colleges, and various profiles of experts. Of course, all these documents included the active participation of psychologists who were exposed to them. What we had to do is something that's best for everyone in the given situation. We had to, on the one hand, even though we understood personal views, personal expectations, personal hardships, in some way rise above this and find some solutions that we could have estimated to be the best direction in the given circumstances for all together. Of course, we were not able to cover all of them; because if we wanted to do so, we do not have enough teachers, we do not have enough schools. But I believe that with some understanding, patience, and also trust, we can also get through this period and continue it in that best direction. This is the direction of education and education in institutions, institutions. My personal efforts will also go confidently and go from the very beginning in this direction. However, you have to understand that we all have certain limitations together now, and at the end of the day we are sitting here with masks, and I believe that none of us want it. And we're sitting in a very strange way. In schools, too, this personal contact between people is the one who is in charge and the only one; and we must respect it now whether we want it or not. But I can absolutely say we're doing the best we can under the circumstances. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u227	Sorry you're running out of time, too. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u228	That's right, Mr. Vice President. In accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we take more time to address this very complex issue and discuss it in the framework of the National Assembly. This is about classical weighing between values, what is more important to children at this time, that they are at home to reduce the possibility of infections, but that they are isolated at the same time. It is not only because the learning process is not going as well as it would have been; it is much more than ex-Minister Pikalo has pointed out. The school is also a socialisation, it is a process of learning, resolving conflicts, it is learning about what is morally right and wrong, it is replacing the deficits that children have at home, equalising different cultural capitals, some children have supportive families, adequate learning situations and so on. And I think we should talk about what value here prevails. For I am most concerned that we do not know by the end of the school year what it will be like, but that we are also talking about the continuation of measures in the next school year. I'm a little disappointed because I was hoping you'd take this opportunity and from the point of view of your authority, at this moment the highest in the field of education, will tell whether the children of the 4th to 8th grade will go back on June 1. Because if we think about it for a long time, they won't be able to go back because the school year is over. Personally, I think it would be very helpful for them to get together a little bit longer and move away from this environment, in which two and a half months now are very useful. And this opinion is obviously being joined by more and more experts, because I say, some experts, teachers, psychologists, some principals. On the other hand, at the meeting we had here, I was able to hear for myself that some teachers did not favor this solution, which bothers me very much. In kindergartens, in kindergarten organizations, kindergarten representatives responded immediately, said they understood that children and parents needed this protection; and that would also be expected from teachers. If we can all work in risky situations, teachers can also work. If something's true, it should apply to everyone. I therefore expect that, due to the predictability of the part of the country, teachers and the predictability of students and parents, it will be clear as soon as possible whether at least students in the 4th to 8th classes will return to the classroom for at least three weeks to somehow end this school year. Not to mention what I mentioned at the outset, or who's thinking about what it's like to be with these parents, who we're already doing normally, and we need to take care of the kids in the meantime. Cook lunch every day, help them learn every day, send products, help send some pdfs, one version and the other. This, of course, has a bad impact on the work process and I think that schools should be open to all children for all these reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 May 2020, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Zmigo Jelinčič The nobles will ask the Minister for Environment and Space Mags a question. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Slovenia has a Regulation on the Limit values for Light Pollution of the Environment, which began to be regulated in 2007, and was last amended in 2013. During this time, there have been major technical improvements in this area, development has moved forward and the issue needs to be addressed as necessary. Pollution with light in Slovenia is horrendous and needs to be changed here. The provisions of the current Regulation should be consistently implemented and the targets for lighting should be reduced. This is necessary because of the effects of light on living organisms and even on humans. It is also necessary to link the categorisation of public roads and road lighting. While the criteria for categorisation of public roads are indicative and should be taken into account in the categorisation of all public roads. It's not like that. There is nowhere to be determined who decides on public enlightenment in a particular congregation, so each congregation has something in its own way. The State should therefore lay down minimum standards to be observed by the municipalities. In this way they would also link the regulation of road lighting based on categorisation or category of individual road or road. Public lighting should be digitised so that it can be switched on and off sensorically, when an object or person appears in the sensor area, public lighting would be lit, otherwise it would not be lit. These things are very cheap today. In Radenci, Mr Leljak introduced this. And without anyone thinking, one solar cell on top doesn't cost 2 000 euros, but 270 euros, which means there could be a lot of things going on here. Moreover, in Slovenia these matters are coordinated or somehow controlled by three ministries: the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Public Administration. It is high time that this is brought together under one hat, because otherwise the matter only spreads out and the money runs out all over the place.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u232	Thank you very much. The Member has already outlined the system in his question and mentioned this current regulation, the holder of which is the Ministry of Environment and Space. It is known who is the supervisory ministry; it is true that this is an inter-ministerial challenge, which is covered by several ministries, which is why a coordination group is set up to act on these solutions. I fully agree with the statement that a number of provisions of the regulation, as well as technical solutions, have overrun time and that space and meaning to upgrade solutions, also improve them in terms of the progress of the profession. Finally, the Court of Auditors’ recommendations were also made, as this subject matter was also subject to review. As far as the portability ministry is concerned, it is definitely the Ministry of Environment and Space because it is pollution. The objectives are clear and clear in order to prevent light pollution in general and also any disruptive contamination of living organisms with light. We are, of course, susceptible to all proposals, and we have already joined the amendment of this Regulation, so that any proposals are welcome and will be taken into account. But the arrangements aren't so bad everywhere. The Member mentioned good examples, in the Republic of Slovenia we also have municipalities that have devoted much attention and have also done a lot in lighting, in particular public areas, from their powers. This is also known by the Company for Motorways, which takes care of our entire highway cross with all the light bodies that are there; and many other infrastructure managers such as Slovenian Railways and the like. It is true, however, that this Regulation and the limits as well as the integration of the expertise into this Regulation are key, and that is why, of course, we have prepared this Regulation and will upgrade it this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. True, some congregations have done so and have arranged well. However, Slovenia has 212 congregations and some of those that have not done so — some of them — do little in their own way. I think we need to settle this at the state level in order to know. And let's say a municipality that doesn't stick to the new regulation, the amended regulation, those that consistently keep it all together, is supposed to be settled by the state at the expense of the municipality. It should be known that in these modern lighting bodies electricity savings are also huge, huge savings, which also means improving the carbon footprint. And another thing is, the European Union is going to need some idea design. Europe has no idea how to improve our situation, so I think it would be good and advisable for the Government to present this segment – processed and completed – at the next Presidency of the European Union as a Slovenian project. I think the matter would go this way. After all, Slovenia is a green country and let us keep it that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u236	Yeah, let's say a typical case where we can do a lot of things also because of technological progress. The Regulation on limit values for environmental light pollution also sets out the target value of the annual consumption of light bulbs incorporated into road lighting and other non-covered public areas. Surely these target values were ten years ago completely different than they can now, as well as the lighting of important cultural monuments and others, which is the practice in Slovenia. The room for improvement is therefore large, in particular by using renewable resources, as you mentioned, in combination with light panels and consequently certain batteries and consequently some autonomy, because you do not have to drive cables and all that. Yes, we accept this challenge and we are also grateful to the Member for all proposals in terms of improving the existing situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u237	Gregor Perič will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u238	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings to everyone, colleague and colleagues, especially the Minister! My question is about the regulation of e-skiro status, this is electric skiroes. As we know, this kind of skiroes has become our reality in very short time on our streets, sidewalks, even on surfaces that are intended only for pedestrians, as well as on surfaces that are intended only for vehicles. Here we also have some kind of challenge or problem. They are positive because they allow better mobility, especially in urban areas, and they also carry certain risks because they are fast, they have small bicycles, they are less stable compared to the bicycle; and there can be accidents, injuries, and so on. There is a much greater likelihood of a loss of balance and of something happening quickly because of a different weight. In 2019, according to the incomplete data I have, more than 300 accidents related to the use of skiroes were recorded in UKC Ljubljana. Given the situation in which we are in a new normal situation, this type of mobility is all the more important. If I pull an analogy with Italy, let's say Italy offers a 500-euro voucher or subsidy to subsidise up to 70% of the cost of buying bicycles, skirro, electric skirro, hoverboard or Segway and similar things that we currently have on the market. This is because public passenger transport is limited due to health conditions and they also build additional cycling routes. Some of the new reality we are facing and also the reality, i.e. the problems with disasters and the irregularity of the area, because legislation does not allow us to use electric skir in the context of the law at all, presents us with a challenge that we both need to solve in the government and in the national assembly so that we can also use this new form of sustainable mobility in some smart way and, in particular, in the urban environment, make life easier. This is linked not only to a lower carbon footprint, but also to a lower pressure on vehicles, on parking surfaces and so on. That's why my question, Mr. Secretary-General: What plans do you have with the bill, in particular in a time-consuming sense?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u240	Thank you very much first for the question, which is very acute, because it is a good time and now public passenger traffic is as it is, and that many users use permanent forms of mobility. We are aware of the problem of the current irregularity of the area as regards the use of e-scrolls or electric skiers. These days, we are also fully coordinating the law within the Ministry. Although it has already been harmonised inter-resortially, we have reopened the debate on some segments. As a result, we are still waiting for final procedures, but believe that at the end of this week or at the beginning of next week, the law will be sent to inter-departmental coordination, is said to be re-intersectoral coordination; and then after the process of acceptance by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly. The Law on Road Traffic Rules establishes electric skiers as light motor vehicles. According to the last draft text, this was this morning, the provisions on their participation in road transport in the new 97a section of the Act. According to the meaning of the term, light motor vehicles are wheelchairs and motor-powered vehicles with a design speed not exceeding 25 kilometres per hour and not exceeding 80 centimeters and are exempted from the scope of Regulation (EC) No 15 January 2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the approval and market surveillance of two or three-wheel vehicles and quadricycles. Thus, among light motor vehicles, we consider all motor-powered skippers, including the so-called e-scrollers, where the design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour and does not exceed 80 centimeters, i.e. electric-powered rollers and similar things. The drivers of light motor vehicles have to ride on a bicycle lane – and this also includes a proposal that I am talking about next week being able to get into a follow-up procedure – a cycling track or a cycling track. Where there are no or non-transportable traffic surfaces, they shall be allowed to drive at the right edge of the directional road in a settlement where the maximum permitted speed of driving is limited to 50 kilometres per hour. Notwithstanding this provision, the use of wheelchairs on motor vehicles shall also be permitted at the centre of the road in a settlement intended for the traffic of motor vehicles where the maximum permitted speed of driving is limited to 70 kilometres or roads outside the settlement. In these segments, we will legalise or include Skiroes, electric skiroes in road traffic. Today, this area is completely disorderly. Electric scythians, too, where there's a footpath and so on, go by. In this case, it is crucial to raise awareness of the safe use of electric skiers and to avoid the processing of electric skiers. Some electric skiers also go 40 kilometers an hour. Here, however, criminal policy occurs, or the rod, if this overuse occurs, or the processing of an electric skirro. Next week or the end of this week, the law will come into re-intersortment, even as some documents on helmet obligations will continue to be obtained. This is an open discussion whether mandatory helmets are the same as for bicycles or mandatory helmets as we do for mopeds which do not exceed 25 kilometres per hour, as we have adopted in the previous term when the helmet is also mandatory. This is being discussed, but the numbers are significant, there are many accidents, head injuries, because the electric skier is very small; the smallest damage to the road or to the road where this e-skiro is taking place can cause serious injuries, especially head injuries, and blows, as you arrive, but it goes on. Next week, this will be inter-resort coordination.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Yes, thank you for all the explanations by the Minister. However, I may have another additional question, particularly with regard to responsibility. I see responsibility first from the user to myself. No matter what solution will finally be proposed by the profession, by the government and then also accepted here, I think it would be wise for every user to use the helmet regardless of everything, because it is most responsible to themselves. But then the question of liability also opens up to third parties when an unloved event occurs, and then an e-skir user causes either some material damage or some injury to a participant or a pedestrian or something like that; and here the amounts can grow very quickly. Some of the estimates in practice are that in these injuries compensation claims will be raised immediately to EUR 3 and EUR 4 thousand. So I want to know: Have you considered at the Ministry or with your expert groups how to address this issue? How do you view the issue of liability insurance to a third party by the user of an e-skir? This is my question; otherwise, I support these efforts of the ministry to regulate this area, because some other cities or places across Europe, such as Madrid or Milan, have, at some point in time, banned the use of e-scrolls, which I think would certainly be harmful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u244	I'm not agreeing that we have to ban something if we can't make it legal. With regard to the use or responsibility of the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia who are users of such vehicles, if we can say so, it is necessary to raise awareness that they are responsible for using helmets, not to process this motor bike or e-skiro, so that they also consistently use the one they buy to avoid abuse afterwards. You have now mentioned another responsibility when there are injuries on third objects or persons. If you would like to arrange this, as you mentioned, then it would mean that skippers should register for electric power not exceeding 25 kilometres per hour, for example, for scooters and so on. This means technical inspection of the insurance. We're thinking if we do this, let's take a step back on permanent mobility. Our assessment is that the damage caused by the e-skiro on third objects or persons, on third parties, is so small that it is not necessary that this is a disproportionate measure in order to register e-skiro. This means that any user of the electric skirroe would take him for a technical inspection, but would insure him further. This is problematic. I think it's more important for people to be as aware as they are on the ski slopes that they are wearing helmets. People use helmets on ski slopes, if you look, over 18 years old; it's not mandatory, but it is. It is said that, in particular, to remind people that they are responsible for the use of such vehicles in transport. This moment is the first step, as I mentioned, to place e-skiro in this segment at all. Indeed, individuals must act responsibly in all of this. Individuals who own the e-scrooge. The wheels are very small and accidents occur very quickly. Very fast.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Ambassador Igor Peček will ask the Minister of Finance mags a question. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honourable Minister of Mag. Sircelj, if we look at the state of revenue in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia on day 18. 5. we are shown that by this date 3.1 billion revenue from the total planned 10.8 billion in 2020 was collected. Of this, we collected 1.03 billion from VAT, 0.41 billion from excise duties and so on; for example, the funds received from the European Union were only 0.26 billion of the estimated 1.07 that we intend to absorb by the end of the year. Accurate data, such as inflows into the budget in critical months, is in March and April, and unfortunately we do not have. But we do have some other available data. By the end of April 2020, 88 000 648 unemployed persons had been registered. This is 10 thousand 793 persons or 14% more than March 2020 and 14 thousand 683 persons or almost 20% more than in the same period last year. From May 4 to May 8 – May 1st and May 2nd, we know it was a holiday, and Sunday 3rd May – between 350 and 700 people were added to the unemployment record daily, after they were registered in early April for a thousand and more days. In summary, by 8 May 2020, 2 000 813 people had been added to the list of unemployed people who were led by the Institute. Due to the loss of income and all economic activities and reduced demand, the number of unemployed is expected to increase and the shortfall in contributions will be higher than expected. So I'd like to find out from you: What were the inflows to the state budget in March and April? The available data show that the situation in the budget is poor, and the announcement of the end of the epidemic was also a political decision to some extent. While I do not want to anticipate and suppose it, the situation in the budget may have also been a good idea for the decision to complete the financing of the anti-korona package measures. In view of what I have said, Minister, I ask you to comment and answer the first question: What was the tide of March and April? What do you expect for the next two months, June and July? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Dear Member! Revenues in the budget in March and April – and these are also in the month of May – are planned. Weaker or better or whatever, the point is, they're planned and controlled. In other words, when you adopted the first law in this National Assembly that allowed for the postponement of taxes, we were probably aware in this law that the revenue in the budget would be lower. That is also why they are planned, and that is why they are controlled. It was a delay, which means, in other words, that when the economic situation is better, when the economy recovers and when these deferral measures pass, these revenues will actually be paid. This is about whether they were bad or good and so on. In March, these revenues were 93.4 million euros or 11.3% lower than in the comparable period of last year; or in April, they were also 351 million or 35.3% lower than in April of last year. That's all there is to it. They were less conscious because you passed these laws here because there is no more unemployment that could be a few times greater if we didn't do it and if we went bankrupt. But we have also kept these companies alive by putting their taxes off; even more, we have also paid these companies contributions for pension and disability insurance, wages and so on, not to mention everything. And yes, that's why the income was lower.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Spread out, for an answer. Yes, I agree with you. We delayed companies in some way to keep them alive, as you said. However, the number of unemployed in institutions is increasing. I also pointed out this and this was also reflected in my question or the continuation of the question. No matter what, I'd keep going. At the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance, this is the information we learned last week that at the end of the year they will have about 130 million euros of unrecovered deficit due to the epidemic. It can happen, I hope not that in December funding can become compromised, that certain rights, such as access to medicines, hospital benefits and so on, may be limited. I am absolutely aware that knowing is one thing; and the other is the same thing as knowing, if you say so. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary-General: For example, do you intend to cover this deficit of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia under the State Budget Balance? If so, then I wonder if you can say: Where and to whom will these funds be taken, or where will the cuts be made? Where is what, say, we can replace with something else and a little more than somewhere else?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u252	Thank you very much. In this National Assembly, you have decided that the balance needs to be drawn up by 1. 9th, until 1st September of this year. And in this context, we will draw up a balance. And if we have to make any transfers, we'll do them in the frame of reassignment. The Rebalance will be submitted to the National Assembly following the usual procedure, but I assure you, all Slovenes and Slovenians, that there is absolutely nothing to be afraid of in order to make access to medicines worse, so that no payments of hospital benefits or any other health, pension or other matters will be made. These are actually perfect insinuations, and from this point of view I assure you that the stability of the health system, as well as the stability of the health system was ensured, when the power of the epidemic was greatest and when we actually came to the government and there was no equipment, no means and no money for health care. In the budget reserve, the previous government left 9 million. And if we left it the way it was, then it would be a health collapse. But this did not happen under this government because we diverted the money to the areas where it was most necessary; and because it will be so in the future. The healthcare system and other systems in this country will work.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u254	Thank you very much again. Well, Minister Shircelj, we both know it wasn't my question to scare people with the collapse of the health system. But still, my question was going in the direction where this deficit would be covered. The fact is, at the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, it is estimated that at the end of the year there will be around 130 million unrecovered deficits. That was the basis of my question. I think it is very important that we also agree on these things in the context of the rebalancing process. Therefore, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that my question and in particular the answers of the Minister of Finance, Mr Shirtzl, be discussed at one of the following meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 May 2020, in the framework of the votes. It's a Magnificent message. Bojana Muršič will ask Health Minister Tomaž Gantar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u256	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister! At the time of the covida-19 epidemic, it turned out that in Slovenia we have a relatively good health system, which we even envy by many more developed countries. Especially because health professionals in the public health system have responded well, coordinated and faced daily problems that have affected the covid virus all. So a universal and accessible public health system is a key element of the stability of the health system that we need to maintain, and according to many years of public health findings, we also have to allocate absolutely more resources. But the undeniable fact is that the health department is the most burdened at this time, which Mr. Suselj, Director of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, has been warning you since the beginning of the adoption of anti-korona laws. The Law on Intervention Measures imposes a burden on the Institute of Health Insurance for Work as a result of sickness or injury from the first day of sickness, which the Government is supposed to provide from the budget, but the increased expenditure of the Health Insurance Office is not covered by the budget of the State. I am concerned that to this day, the government has not changed the level of expenditure on medical bills. As a result, the alarming forecast we have received recently is an alarming concern that a new way of working in health care will therefore also require more money that the Health Insurance Office will not be able to provide; and in the context of the emergency health insurance reform, a reduction in compulsory health insurance rights is expected. The disadvantaged will be the most vulnerable, as services under these frameworks will only be available to those who will also pay for the services. It is predicted that, for the first time, the right to transport, which is extremely important, especially for the weakest and most vulnerable groups of people, especially for those who do not have transport and are without relatives; for the second time, ocular examinations and co-financing of the glasses that are supposed to be lifted; even more terrible forecasts are forecast in the area of hospital treatment, where paid meals are to be discontinued; and for the fourth time, it is predicted that adult dentistry will be fully privatised. Health care is the key to social security, so I am interested in: When and where will you provide additional financial resources to ensure that the health system will remain financially stable in the future and that the basic health care package remains at least the same level as today? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u258	Thank you so much for your words and thank you for asking, mag. It's an ant. We have been talking about this for many years, regardless of the current epidemic. In all these years, we face greater health needs because of what we are stressing all the time – demographics, new technologies, new medicines, new opportunities. And, of course, funding for this has not followed for many years. To present our health funding system a problem, it has also proved to be a problem since the financial crisis in the years until 2013 when we had major problems and in fact the inflows to the health treasury were 700, 800 million less than today. And also this current crisis, the epidemic, is likely to result in an estimated 200 million fewer inflows at the end of the year by the Institute of Health Insurance. It's just an evaluation, it doesn't have to be an actual situation. What has been found in the WHO analysis that has been carried out is one of the basic requirements, which unfortunately was not then included in the long-term strategy as well, this is the diversification of health funding sources, as it has proved that only the bulk of the funding from the health-care remittance fund of the CFSP is not sufficient on the basis of contributions. Indeed, there will be a need to think about more sources of funding if we want long-term financial sustainability. This means additional resources, as health costs increase about 2%, 3% per year. On the other hand, the health system will also have to adapt to the new situation if this financial sustainability is to be achieved. One is the establishment of an even better health system at the primary level, which provides greater rationality in the use of resources; and the other, of course, is investing in public health and thus ensuring a longer period of healthy lifestyles. Without it all together, it will be difficult to maintain the public system we want, as accessible, solidarity, quality. Of course, there are more options, this is a matter — I think — of a broader consensus. We have also proposed and proposed, in particular, the Long-Term Supply Act, which is part of the package, including raising the contribution rate at least to the average of the European Union. On the other hand, an agreement will also have to be reached on what funding means directly from the budget. Today we are giving direct funds from the budget of less than most European countries, significantly less. And thirdly, without some additional insurance, it probably won't work in this case. I don't know the public health system, not even a health system that works without private funds. And I am afraid that we will have a thorough debate on this subject, what we are able to do with public funds – and this to the greatest extent also defines the public health system – but what may be added value does not have a significant or crucial impact on the health status of the individual. It should be borne in mind that as large a basket as we have at this time, it can unduly take the necessary treatment for those who, without compulsory health insurance, would not be able to or who have difficulty in providing the necessary treatment in the most challenging areas, such as oncology, chronic diseases and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u260	Thank you so much for the first part of the answer. Otherwise, you did not tell me when you will provide this additional money, because the absolutely undeniable fact is that the deteriorating economic activity, unemployment, the postponement of payments requires that more resources be provided for health care in the budget, because otherwise the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia will not be able to do so. It is true, as you said, that the result will be a reduction of about 200 million euros, which is not negligible. And at this point I also asked you whether this money will not be given to the Health Insurance Office, what it means for users or patients who will face these cuts, which I have talked about, to reduce the number of transports, to reduce or terminate their ocular checks, to pay for food in hospitals, to pay for it themselves, to ensure that adult dental care is fully privatized or paid for all services in its pocket. As a result, if this happens, we will have more unhealthy people or more rotten teeth. Absolutely, overall, waiting periods will also be extended and it should be stressed that public health establishments did not provide all services during the covid-19 virus. Their activity has plummeted tremendously and losses have also increased. That's why I want to know: Do you have a purpose, when and how you will also help public health institutions to be able to carry out health programs normally in the coming months? Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u262	I think at this point it is certainly inappropriate, or it is essential, too fast, to talk about any cuts, reducing rights and all that you're talking about, because at this point there's no reason for it. It is true that the scope of work or the method of work is changing for public institutions, and no one can predict how long such work will take. I think that at this point we could still make up for the scope of the work envisaged in most cases if, of course, the situation calms down. On the other hand, we have made sure that public health institutions and others can continue to function normally, as we have ensured or anticipated, for the first time, in this third corona package, that 80% of the value of services not delivered due to labour constraints will be financed from the budget. On the other hand, we have also put forward a proposal for a general agreement, which is now under consideration, that even after the end of June, the Institute of Health Insurance checks on the realisation, this will not happen and then belong to the public institutions by the end of the year to the same advance as they did before. I don't see here that we should get into big financial trouble on this side. On the other hand, at this time, we will also see what is actually going to happen due to infection with this new coronary virus. At the same time, discussions will also have to take place on these additional funding options in relation to programmes, in particular long-term care, and also on these programmes, which are covered by compulsory health insurance and are now financed from between 10 and 100 % of the WHO and, of course, a certain proportion of supplementary health insurance.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u264	Thank you very much. The Minister said well that a broader debate would be needed, so I believe that the second paragraph of Article 246 should be applied to this issue and that the debate on this subject should be held at the next meeting. For I am glad that there is no reason for the cuts which I have spoken about; and I hope that it will remain so; for otherwise it is a cause for concern. However, with regard to what has been stated that the scope of work could be replaced by the end of the year by public health establishments, I have great concerns that the health services provided by the current staff have been substantially extended. With all the measures to be taken in the implementation of the services, their time is significantly longer. Especially in the field of dental care, where appropriate, suits when a patient leaves the office are radiation. With the existing staff, this is simply unsustainable or will not work. I talked to dentists; dentists just can't work anymore. They can also work in the afternoon, they can work on Saturdays, but they actually need rest. And in the field of dental care, there will be extremely big problems in the coming months, especially in the field of specialist dental care, where one service does not last 10 minutes, but lasts much longer, almost an hour or 45 minutes. After that time, there is much more time needed, and this is extremely difficult. So once again, I think that this is an extremely important matter to start talking about today, because before we come to all the relevant changes, there will be a long way to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 May 2020, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Dr Aleksandri Pivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u266	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Hello, Madam Secretary! Long before the beginning of this health crisis, which unfortunately now translates into economic, economic, we have warned many, including the Minister, of the absence of planned and targeted measures in the area of food self-sustainment in Slovenia. I do not want to present data here now, because I think that the Minister will also operate on data, but I want to hear from the Minister in particular the solutions that will be actually implemented today and tomorrow in the practice of the crisis have also shown that the dispersion of the agricultural sector may not be such a bad idea, although we have heard over and over again about the smallness of Slovenian farms and the weakness. It is true, however, that these farms need incentives to help deliver profitable buying-in prices, to market products, to invest in preventive measures in the field of climate change, to co-natural technologies that increase the efficiency of the processing area and, on the other hand, to reduce production costs. That's why I want to know: To what extent and in what way will the Ministry help to provide profitable purchase prices for agricultural products and to market Slovenian products? Many consumers have also been warning and also finding that the prices of certain foods have increased significantly in this crisis. Globally too, higher food prices are already forecasting, at least for some. That's why I want to know: What are you going to do to ensure that at the end of the price of the domestic food, at least the share that is given to the seller and any processor or distributor is also intended for the main manufacturer, i.e. farmers at the beginning of the chain? Even when we talk about this self-sustainment, meat, as far as we know, is more or less 100% self-sustaining in Slovenia, the problem is vegetables and fruits. I also ask the most in this direction, because I think it will also be a global flaw in general. And I'm also curious: Are any specific structures in Slovenia or in agriculture considered in terms of integration into cooperatives or cooperative structures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u268	Dear President! Dear Member of the Korazi, thank you for the question. It is true that the current situation, this outbreak, has further sensitized the whole of Slovenia, which has begun to deal more intensively than ever with the question of how self-sustaining we are in Slovenia; for there would, of course, be a disturbance in the supply of goods across borders – either within the European Union or from third countries – in Slovenia. Certain disturbances have occurred, although we have been keeping a close eye on the uninterrupted supply at the Ministry. Above all, there has been a first phase of disruption in those sectors which are overly self-sustaining, i.e. where we are more than a hundred percent self-sustainment. First, the problems in milk surpluses and later beef farming were problems, where Slovenia also achieves extremely high levels of self-sustainment. On the other hand, we have always shivered more or less about what will happen in the area of plant production, fruit and vegetables, where we reach a relatively low level of self-sustainment in Slovenia. On average, we could say about 30 percent or a few percent, depending on the individual agricultural crop. In this area we have certain limitations in Slovenia as well as certain problems. In particular, restrictions on the size of the agricultural land with which Slovenia has access, and due to this limitation on agricultural land, of course Slovenia cannot be so ambitious as to be fully self-sustaining at any time. Of course, on the other hand, the problem also causes a very narrow time limit, the seasonality of fruit and vegetables production, where at some point we become extremely self-sustaining. This period, for example, comes now that we are producing extremely large salads, and you are likely to hear that we are already producing surpluses. And on the other hand, beyond this typical period, when the production season is, of course, we don't have it and we are bound to import. What are the measures? We have taken immediate action to create a common agricultural policy for the coming period in order to make the best possible move and strategically channel all investments in strengthening these deficit areas. That is why, in the context of this anti-coron package, three of us, in particular, have foreseen certain administrative and bureaucratic facilitations of procedures, because we still have a number of resources available, including from the existing financial perspective, which we want to focus on the plantations and other technological improvements that will, of course, have the greatest impact on the possibility of producing as much fruit and vegetables as possible in Slovenia outside the season; or whether it is the use of biothermal energy, which we have also foreseen in the law. Then, in particular, we want to invest in irrigation technologies, protection from hail, from cold and other technologies that will also reduce the possibility of climate impacts. It is also important to pay great attention to the establishment of chains from production through purchasing systems, cooperative systems of the food processing industry until entry into the market; however, I must point out here that neither the state nor the ministry have the power to influence prices in any way. However, within the food supply chain, it is necessary to establish such conditions and to gradually lead to proper and fair business relations between stakeholders, and then to allocate payments between them in a manner that all are adequately paid for. That is why, in the Agriculture Act, as one of the first or even the first European country, we have created the Statute of the Ombudsman for Food Supply and have also introduced unfair practices that are sanctioned. This is taken care of by the competition agency, which is designated as a criminal authority. When these unfair practices are detected in chains, the Agency shall have the power to sanction such practices.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u270	Thank you. When we talk about these opportunities that are essentially overlooked, I usually think about my Haloze, Ptuj, Lower Podravje. Although the Haloses are very hilly, they also provide an opportunity for just certain plant and vegetable cultures that are very successful or already successful in this region. That's why I want to know: Will there also be certain incentives for this region of Slovenia, especially for Haloze and Lower Podravje, even when it comes to food self-sustainment? I would also mention the legal basis for the priority purchase of forest land by the State or the local community, in particular when it comes to conservation forests of particular importance or more than 30 hectares. I think that the order of beneficiaries for the purchase of agricultural land should also be reconsidered. Is there anything to think about in this direction, at least in certain types of land? In my opinion, small farms would also make sense to buy through a state system, subsidies and then offer them to those who want to return to rural areas or who want to grow and be self-sustaining or even live on fruit and vegetables. And in the end, I want to know: How can you, perhaps with any specific project or even subsidies, especially ensure that the earth can be cultivated even to those who are trying to provide food for themselves or who are also trying to ensure that they are self-sustaining for their family? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u272	Thank you for asking. Although it's very complex, it would take a lot more time to answer. Also for hill farms, special areas or restricted areas, such as the Haloz area, are, of course, specifically targeted. Some of these funds, as I have already said, remain in this financial perspective, and we will focus them on the deficit areas, which means that it is for these purposes that farmers in this area can also apply. In general, part of northeastern Slovenia is mostly more flat, it is highly suitable for vegetable production, of course I am talking about fruit and vegetables. As regards the possibility of buying up agricultural land as well as forests, in particular those with special purpose, whether protected areas of Natura 2000 or other protected forms of land, particular attention is paid to this 10-kilometre strip around the borders of Slovenia in order to protect these strategically important land in the sense of national interest. In doing so, the Fund of Agricultural Lands, as well as the Slovenian company for forest management, shall endeavour to redeem as many of these areas as possible. Last year, five times as many agricultural areas were purchased, namely agricultural land as in the previous year. Last year, in 2019, 640 hectares of agricultural area and also farms were purchased. For the first time, the Fund also began to purchase abandoned farms, which are then revitalised, rehabilitated, carried out land-based comassation procedures, if necessary, and then committed to further leasing. In this way, many more abandoned agricultural and forest land are also revitalised, of course with a view to reducing the area of cultivated agricultural land as much as possible. The adoption also includes a regulation on the implementation of the agricultural land eradication measure, which we have prepared and provides for certain administrative simplifications and a higher level of funding at the Ministry. Now it amounted to 3,000, from now on EUR 5,000 per hectare, which also means a greater investment opportunity. Then it is also possible to rent the farmland free of charge, provided that the tenant renews it, revitalises it; and increases the amount of compensation due to the change in the destination of the agricultural land by 100%, which should also reduce this change.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u274	As you yourself have already said, I propose that we hold a broader debate in the National Assembly on the issue of self-sustainment. Not because I would not be satisfied with Mrs Minister's answers, but because I think that this is really a matter that we will all have to face and even discuss more broadly. Food self-sustainment, or at least the approximation of complete self-sufficientness with food, means the difference between survival and hunger due to economic and other crises. If we could still think that we have another year to prepare for a better self-sustainment strategy in December, this virus issue has given us a clear reminder. And the time for action is now, not headlessly, but clearly and purposefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u275	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 May 2020, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Marko Bandelli will ask the Minister of Finance mags a question. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u276	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Minister! The covida-19 epidemic caused a major economic shock this year, which led to a 3.5 billion debt this year, followed by a 2.5 billion debt. This means that public debt will rise from 66% of GDP this year, when you become a minister, to a record 82.4% of GDP; or debt will rise from 31 billion to 37 billion. Each Slovenian will be in charge of 19,000 euros. Even in 2013 and 2014, the country faced crisis situations, and the resolution of the state and people also required rapid action and additional commitments. In particular, public debt rose from 26 billion to 30 billion. At that time, our government received a number of criticisms from the Slovenian Democratic Party, i.e. your party, Mr Minister, when they repeated daily that Slovenia's debt was such a disaster. Since this year we will record the highest growth of public debt in the history of Slovenia, I am interested in: How was the amount of public debt, which was lower than this year, so often referred to as a disaster for Slovenia, in 2013 and 2014? What is our exit strategy, or your exit strategy, and which way will Slovenia go? What will be our debt next year? Can we expect the ZUJF-2 and the re-reduction of pensions and salaries? How, with what measures will you recover public debt and at the same time ensure the same standard of social state as we know it today? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u278	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. This year, the government of Janez Janša was responsible for a little less than 3 billion, about 3 billion, as you said, under an authorised debt. The authorised duty was laid down in the law on the implementation of the budget. This year, 1.7 billion were indebted to the previous government and there was no epidemic. It's true. There's still a chance in the marriage. I'm talking about the possibility that the government will be in debt for about 2 billion more. That doesn't mean she'll be in debt. This means that the National Assembly has given the Government the opportunity to commit itself in this context can, of course, be less. The exit strategy is best illustrated in the European Commission's forecasts and assessments, when the European Commission assessed the decline in economic growth this year by slightly more than 7% and the rise in economic growth next year by 6.7%. This means that this decline in this year is approximately equivalent to growth in the following year. Growth in the following year, of course, also means higher income, higher employment, more work and also providing prosperity for people. And it also guarantees some certainty that the revenues they actually have and that they will remain as they are. And since I have been in charge of the so-called ZUJF-2 several times in this National Assembly, which I do not know, which you may know, I do not know, with which to reduce wages and pensions, nor do I know this ZUJF-2. The government does not plan any major changes this year in the area of salaries and pensions, in other words, ensures certainty. It is true, however, that the exit strategy will be such that the government, under the Fiscal Rule Act, must either make an exit or an exit strategy, in what time it will reduce the deficit of the state budget, which it is also planning, which means that it is planned, supervised and conscious, because it has postponed a number of payments of contributions, taxes and so on, I have already talked about this in response to the previous question. As a result, there are also lower revenues in the budget. And because there are smaller revenues in the budget, there will also be a shift from the fiscal rule. And it has already been created — permitted, planned and controlled by the Fiscal Council. As an exit strategy, the government will draw up and send a plan to the National Assembly in what time this deficit will actually be eliminated. That's what the government is ordering. The Fiscal Rules Act. And in this plan, it will be clear exactly when Slovenia will arrive at an equalisation of income and expenditure. Accordingly, and in a similar way, the exit strategy will also be to reduce Slovenia's indebtedness; economic growth will rise and, of course, debt will decrease.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u280	Thank you, Chairman. Minister, let's face it and tell ourselves. Right now you're making a hole in the hole, if you say so. If I mention only the case of this sheepdog or this voucher, which is only one huge weight for my terms, and this is how some political points and consensus of citizens are collected; but I do not think they will be sold for 200 euros. This wolf of yours is absolutely not going to stimulate the launch and the manoeuvring that was created by the hotelists. I'm sure of it. 345 million. For example, people from the homes of pensioners will not benefit from this shepherd; even those who are on hold are not unemployed. Those on minimum wages who can barely make it through the month will not go anywhere, but they will be able to make a deal with these vouchers. The country will still be with this money, but someone will take advantage of it. This voucher, or this voucher, which could also be a good idea, but – since I mentioned the machinations – will not, it also means one discrimination, and this is discrimination against all other activities that did not operate at the time when the government asked them to shut down. Like one bad guy, the other bad. Now you tell me: Why a chicken at the end of next month? I probably know why; because the hotelists gave the action earlier, they lowered prices and they said – Wait a minute, Mr Minister, let's give this action the end of the month, so we first compensate the first part where we gave the low, low prices. Even so, he's from the country, and he can cash the same in two days instead of in four, and there's less time there. There's little to think about. You haven't answered my question about Zuiff 2 yet, but actually, we've seen it on the board. So far, I'm not happy with your answer. I'm asking for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u282	Dear Vice President, honourable Member! I got an announcement about the public debt issue. Now I've got a question about how they're going to work and how pointless these sheepdogs are. It's a completely different subject and here I see some deviation. The link between the vouchers and the public debt is only in that, as you mentioned, this is the maximum amount for which the State is actually expected to pay 345 million; and this could result in a public debt. Now that I've actually said the connection between the sheep and the public debt, everything else isn't about that. With regard to public debt, I can only say this: such as the exit strategy for reducing future deficits, public debt will also be reduced, as I have already announced, in order to reduce real debt in the event of greater economic growth. That's one. Second, the optimisation of the public debt interest, in other words, is very simplistic, but it is understandable that individual debts, which, for example, have a higher interest rate, are replaced by debt that has a lower interest rate. This reduces interest costs, reduces interest and therefore follows these Maastricht criteria, which set 60 % of public debt in gross social product. I would like to say that as far as public debt is concerned, we are still in the first half of the European Union countries. This is no comfort, just as statistics, in the first half of these countries. Since these too, mentioned by you, are intended to start an economy, this means, of course, that the tourism economy will be more dynamic, regardless of who will benefit these sheepmen now or not, with greater growth. This, of course, will also help us to get more revenue, so that the country will receive more revenue than it does in April, so that more people will be employed, so that there can be more added value as well as greater competitiveness, which will reduce public debt. This measure, the followers, is a measure aimed at starting tourism to actually create added value by tourism.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u284	I mentioned a sheepdog I was hoping was one of your exit strategies from this crisis, if that's what I call it. That's why I mentioned her as one of the possibilities, one of the many. I expected an answer from you — more specific, tangible, tangible. Don't talk from credits, from subsidies, because we pay everything, banks now offer better credits than what you offered in that liquidity law. I don't see any concrete way out here, like just borrowing, that's the first thing. You did not answer me what our debt will be in the coming years, you just said - we suppose it will be so much less this year's GDP so that it should be compensated for the second year, but without concrete matters. You can't answer me in one minute either. That's what I understand. You said we're not expecting Zuiff 2, but I'll tell you that we're already in the Zuiff 2 phase, so let's call it what you want, but I call it Zuif 2 because we know it under that name. Proof of what we had on the Committee on Culture, where you rejected 70% of the funds already granted with regard to the tenders. I'll give you an example. So, there's nothing going on here either. You said you didn't hear about the downgrading, but I really hope you don't go into the downsizing of wages and pensions. Nothing was said about the recovery of this public debt. I am interested – and indeed – so I will also propose, in accordance with the rules of procedure, that a public debate be held – whether you will ensure the same standard of the social state as we know it today. But that's exactly what the Minister denied earlier when he said nothing would be the same as it was. It is said that we must expect the services, for example, health care, to rise or we will have to cut into our pockets. No problem, we just need to know what's ahead and what we're expecting. For this reason, the President, I ask you to hold a debate at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 May 2020, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Rudi Medved will ask the Minister of Public Administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u286	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! After the confusion, if not just chaos, in the payment of allowances to public sector employees, the most burdened and exposed, there is much disillusionment and disillusionment among employees, especially in health care, social protection, police and firefighters. In particular, the surprising information that you have stated at this meeting today that only about half of the requests for payment of these supplements have been received so far by the presidents. This is really surprising, because I doubt that the leaders who know the efforts made by their colleagues at this time of the epidemic would not have made sure that you would have come in time to some satisfaction, because we know that in a financial sense it is not about this without knowing what kind of money it is. Mainly, there is so much recalculation that some leaders have just given up. But why am I mentioning this? In view of the fact that, following these experiences, 180 000 employees in the public sector can rightly be expected to be in some of the last, if not the last, austerity measure brought by the ZUJF, this is the payment of performance among public sector employees. After eight years, after eight years, we are putting an end to this crisis - if we are to end it. And now, according to plans and agreements with the unions, he would be reinstated at the threshold of the crisis. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Secretary-General: Are there adequate criteria for fair pay-out of work performance? Even though the minister told you that there would be no new buzzer, is there a fear that the crisis could even delay the start of the payment of this supplement?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u288	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, too, Mr Member, for his question. First of all, I would like to point out that it would be very useful if, in accordance with the long-standing practice of the National Assembly, the Member would refer a concrete question. I got a question about the reform of the wage system in the public sector, but now we're talking about supplements and payments of allowances, which, of course, only have nothing to do with the renovation. And also this eight-year delay in the payment of one part of the work performance, i.e. from three segments, is not linked to the renovation of the pay system. I can basically answer that question, and I will. For details, I can also prepare a written reply. But, as it is said, the question which was referred to me as an oral question referred to the reform of the wage system in the public sector. As far as the additions are concerned, I have already explained this today, and it is not difficult for me, because I hope that these leaders, whom you have appointed, will listen and take final responsibility. You mentioned that even 50% of the requests to the Ministry of Finance were not made, such data are from last week in the field of health. I also pointed that out about an hour ago. For example, in the area of social protection, these claims were 90%. But where I appeal to you and I will ask you for help, you have mentioned that some of the leaders have given up on this; I would like specific information. If any of the chairpersons in the system where the government has provided him with funds for both supplements, including for the one where the collective agreement requires the institution itself to provide funds, with all the instructions given at the Ministry of Public Administration, with two samples of conclusions on our websites, explanations and instructions from the sectoral ministries, not to mention the pressure of trade unions, the public, the media, including the Members and us, that these supplements must be paid in accordance with the Government's announcement and statement. And if one of the leaders gave up, I would be very grateful for the specific names, specific cases of failure. And as I have pointed out many times before, this responsibility of the chairpersons to assess the risk of working circumstances or jobs is not new, this was not invented by this government, which was already in the Law on Safety and Health at Work. The chairman must be able to assume these responsibilities and share this money, as the only person who knows exactly what someone was doing at the time of the epidemic. Not as a minister, not as a government, but as Members, you cannot know what someone has done and how much he has been burdened. Only the chairman can and must assume this responsibility. And if she is gone, I think the answer to her hand — such a chairman can no longer be the forerunner. The second is the late payment. At this time of the epidemic, I believe that, for some I know, for others, the focus was on solving the problems of this epidemic. And what we have provided as a government is the means, the calculation will be; as it is said, all of us together can exercise control over that the leaders will do their work. If we have specific information on who did not do this, we will react accordingly. As regards the payment of performance, as stated, one of the three possible payments or three types of remuneration has been suspended. This one's supposed to relax. The reasons that this was 8 years in peace are certainly better known to you as the minister of the entire mandate of the previous government. It is crucial that whatever will change – that is, in the spirit of the basic question of the reconstruction of the pay system – will take place in communication and negotiation with the public sector unions. The key thing I am defending myself is coordination, the link between the results of work and the payment of work performance; of course, this must not increase the mass of wages. We have to come from the fiscal sustainability of the pay system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u289	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u290	Thank you very much. I know, my question was, Mr Minister, about the reconstruction of the payroll system, but that was more than ten years ago, because the work performance has virtually never really come to an end in practice, so it is still linked to the reconstruction of the payroll system ten years ago. You have not answered my question whether there is any thought that the payment of work performance, as was somehow agreed with the unions, would not have started because of the public financial picture as it is and as we can expect. I think this is extremely important and is of interest to 180,000 employees in the public sector. The other thing about the pay system is that we have too little time to deal with all the issues, but just these days, at one of the board's meetings, the Defence Minister made it clear that in a relatively short period of time he would point out the issue of removing the Slovenian Armed Forces from the single pay system, that there is much more of this kind of pressure from the back, but now these pressures are a little behind during this crisis. As soon as things get a little loose, you're going to get these pressures, you probably know that. That's why I want to know: How will you respond to these requirements, since your position on the single pay system itself is somehow known, have you made it public several times?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u291	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u292	In this place, I agree with my fellow bear. In 2008, the single salary system was praised, even according to the OECD estimates, it has brought order to the current public sector wage disorder, particularly with regard to the high level of transparency it has provided, as well as to public financial controls. The fact is, as you yourself have mentioned, that since 2008, since the introduction, there have been individual requirements for withdrawal from this single salary system, particularly with doctors, police officers, soldiers. The fact is, none of the governments so far have taken any action in this regard. What I am advocating is that a possible exit must also not constitute an adjustment to the requirements of individual groups for higher wages. This can't be an equation, the mass of wages must be maintained. That's my point. But I must say, this is not a topic to be discussed at government meetings. It's my personal position and the Ministry's position. As for the possible appearance of thinking about the termination or retention of an agreement with the unions, my head has not been given that thought, nor has any of the colleagues in the government mentioned anything to me on this topic. Or was there some sort of thinking going on, and I'm afraid I don't know that. But as we said, we haven't talked about it, it's not in any plans. That's all I can say right now. We were dealing with an epidemic, we were still dealing with an epidemic, and it is crucial that we ensure, as you yourself said, an adequate payment for all those who were in the first battle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Member of the Commission, please choose a word for the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u294	Thank you very much. As the issues related to the public sector's pay system never run out, there are a whole bunch of them. We can say that this year, too, one of the most important wages in the public sector will be one of the most important, at least as long as the unions were forecasting before the crisis, even as regards the very survival of the single wage system, because there are still quite different opinions on this in the ruling coalition, while the Minister of Public Administration has repeatedly said that he favoured maintaining a single pay system. The fact that there are exit requirements without pay demands is impossible anyway. We both know that, Mr. Secretary. On the other hand, the largest government party absolutely advocates the withdrawal of some groups from the single pay system and perhaps, Minister, you can get quite a befel to arrange it. But once the unions are up, you'll be blamed for the situation anyway. In this area, we can expect quite a lively development in the future, so I propose that we hold a debate on the situation within the pay system itself in the public sector in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 May 2020, in the framework of the votes. We're moving on. Mr Matjaž Germany will ask the Minister for Environment and Space Magi a question. Andrej Visiak and Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food Dr. Aleksandri Pivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Respectable both ministers, good afternoon and a nice greeting! I will open up a topic that is probably one of the older topics in the National Assembly, mentioned for the first time in 2007. So much for how important it is to talk again about one topic that Primorce has been running away for more than a good decade. I am talking about the Accumulation Lake Vogršček; perhaps the distinguished Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition Aleksandri Pivec is a slightly less familiar subject, Minister Viszak. Allow me to plow in a minute the event in the containment plant, which actually feeds mainly agriculture and fruit farming in the area so far only in the lower part of the Vipava Valley, this part of so fertile coastal land, to which, unfortunately, the country or all governments — left and right — in the past had no excessive empathy for this issue due to such and different circumstances. If I am to shorten, an agreement was finally reached between the two ministers in 2018, between the Minister of the Jews and Mrs Majcen, to provide funds from the budget. In accordance with the agreement on self-sustainment, the need for food security, where necessary, environmental and climate change, is ensured not only the lower but also the upper Vipava Valley in the area of agriculture in particular a sufficient measure of the need to meet the relevant conditions for agriculture. On 7 January 2020, Minister Pivec and then Minister of the Environment and Space Zajc signed a contract to start the restoration of this lake with the funds provided in the budget. Dear both ministers, today we are practically a month in June, the month of June is at the door. On April 23rd, the Minister of Agriculture visited the northern Primorska or Gori region and said, quote: “It is no longer a matter of months, but of days.” My question is, respected by both ministers: How is the acquisition of the building permit or when can we anticipate the start of the restoration of the truly needed Vogršček in order to maintain in this part of the Primorska fruit and vegetable production between those parts of the agricultural sector that actually provides for the coastal farmer in the Vipavska Valley for the existence and future?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Who wants the first word? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u298	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for this question. We are all aware of the importance of this barrier and can serve you with this information that the application for a building permit has been submitted, that some additions have been made and are expected to follow the issuance of a building permit next week. All land is acquired, contracts with contractors are signed for the execution of works, the envisaged start of part is in August of this year. The priority use of this infrastructure is, of course, irrigation and reduction of flood risk; however, as far as other uses are concerned, there are no changes as so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u300	The honourable Member, Madam President, also thank you for my opportunity to respond. Indeed, a letter of intent was signed in 2018, but at that time no financial means for recovery had yet been provided. The funding provided later by both ministries is 85 % to 15%, as 85% falls to the needs of irrigation and 15% to the needs of flood protection. The funding was later assessed as very low, as the investment value increased to around 8.02m euros or even 9.8m euros, together with VAT, after a thorough review of the situation on the Vogršček barrier. The Ministry of Environment and Space then committed itself to ensuring the difference in resources from the water fund; and this is, in fact, the final agreement within which the activities are now being carried out. As the Minister has already said, the last agreements with landowners were under way by April. Due to restrictions on the functioning of certain administrative units, certain documents could not be verified. I was also thrilled to learn that in the coming week we can expect a building permit. However, there are several signatures of subcontractor contracts in the process. The contract with the main contractor is already signed by the Water Directorate, but there are also some subcontractors. And I will really be very happy if these works will be glassed by summer, because the necessity or needs of the agricultural sector in that part are so urgent, not only for irrigation, but also for the possibility of setting up the irrigation systems that the renewed barrier will also give. During this period, we have maintained this in the framework of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests through essential investment maintenance. It started in 2019 and will also be involved in the control of the system in 2020, as well as in computer management and management, which is also necessary in some of the reconstruction works. We are also pleased that the congregation of Ajdovščina and Vipava joined the northern platoon or the expansion of this irrigation system. This will also significantly increase the amount of irrigation that is now about a thousand hectares and expands to these congregations, depending on the interests of the farmers themselves. As soon as construction works are completed, we will also draw up a draft agreement on the transfer of property rights and the management and maintenance of the irrigation system to the local community, which is already agreed with local communities; and also provide, within the future financial perspective, funds that will then be invested either in the restoration of old irrigation systems or in the construction of new ones on the north leg.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u302	Thank you both ministers for this encouraging news. Surely, the primary task of this Accumulation Lake is to preserve and strengthen agriculture in the area and to ensure the continued operation of agriculture, both fruit and, in particular, fruit and vegetables. Allow me to thank you for your answers with good hope that, in the coming months, we will be able to discuss other activities in this area as well as the transfer of administrative rights to local communities. For if we actually reach such a quality level of this accumulating lake, which will meet, above all, the needs of agriculture, we could continue to talk. For years, municipalities have been expressing the intention to promote sports and other activities at this facility, as the physionomy of this lake would allow for some other already known lakes elsewhere in Slovenia to carry out similar activities there. Dear Minister, I am pleased with the answer, and I hope that the season will be good enough for farmers, that construction works can take place in August and that there will be no too much need for water during that period. Thanks for the answer, both of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u303	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Anybody else want to add anything? No, no, no. Then let's move on. The next question will be asked by Mr Aljaž Kovacič, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u304	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! In fact, in the List of Marjan Šarca from the beginning, when all educational institutions in Slovenia have been closed down, we note that the state and, above all, the Ministry should present various plans to open schools according to the epidemiological picture. Since there were no such answers somehow, we also convened a committee where there was a very interesting debate. The Minister also answered a few questions, and we were particularly pleased that we had somehow started a public debate on that committee, in what way schools would open up; and a few answers came. The situation in Slovenia is currently well known; you opened kindergartens, opened the first triad, and returned to school for the first time, the fourth years preparing for the graduation, and today the nine students. During that time, I had several conversations with principals, including teachers. I also walked past kindergartens and saw that in practice things may not work the way they should. Above all, it seems to me, as the teachers have also mentioned, that somehow they do not have the mission of a teacher in the first place, but somehow act as security guards, police officers, to be able to meet all these requirements, all the instructions you sent. I want to say that in practice these instructions that have come – and it is still my opinion that they do not come in time, that teachers are too late for them and cannot prepare for them – are inanimate because they have been prepared by NIJZ, which has very little contact with reality itself. As a result, I feel that the Ministry should take the initiative here to listen to the medical profession when schools can be opened. Of course, these guidelines should be more integrated and the guidelines should be such that they can be implemented in practice. For example, if two schoolmates go to school together and there must be 1.5 meters between them in school, even kindergarten I saw that they were spinning around in a circle, it's very hard not to touch each other. Teachers also say that in fact the whole teaching is just washing their hands. Many measures are being released, and I am therefore interested in two specific questions: First, what will happen to the students by the end of this school year, given that we are today on May 25? The second week is June 1st, and we still don't really know what's going to happen to these students. However, we know that by the end of June, education has already been completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u306	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Member, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The first week of gradual and partial return to educational institutions in our country is over, it is behind us. We entered the second week, in which we added very important new groups of students and students, including students and students, ninth classes and, of course, all those who need additional learning aid and some guidance, so that they can successfully complete their schooling. In some ways, after this first wave of opening and following the guidelines adopted at that time, the educational process is under way. I must say that I myself have spent a lot of time in the past week personally visiting kindergartens, primary schools, high school and high school, and that I have seen firsthand what I am saying. On the part of teachers, teachers, professors, professors, I also receive numerous feedbacks, letters; of course also directors, principals, including educators and educators. And what I can guarantee and assert without doubt is that the work they are doing in these new situations is more difficult; however, it is absolutely professional, responsible, committed and very heartwarming. The guidelines in this regard are of a educational nature on one side and are primarily linked to how to bring children back to the school environment after this time, how to help them re-energize and start working in the educational process after this time and in these different, new circumstances. It's not easy, but I can't say it's hard. This is an additional challenge, which everyone, together with great understanding and, as I said, is very professionally perceived and approached. And in this light, there was also almost a guidance that we gave at the level of dialogue that we had at the Ministry with different professions that prepared these guidelines to be, of course, professional, also responsible in terms of ensuring adequate safety measures for the health of all those returning; however, they should be human and be lifelike. Of course, we have also been keeping abreast of this, and we are also doing so now, as this coming back has taken place, where such problems, including the hardships and problems you are mentioning, have been manifested. They were related again to life questions and calls for why we should wear masks, why distance is such as, or whether we are all safe in the system we reentered. Yes, in all these cases the answer is yes. At the same time, in the light of the very favourable epidemiological pictures in the last week, we have also made a call back to this part of the profession, or we can make these guidelines a little bit softer, make a little bit more of a living situation, and we can assess, firstly, whether it is possible that these classes, which are now divided, are also one of the major professional, professional, pedagogical problems to reunite; and it is enough to maintain some redefined social distance, which would allow for an even more smooth and more ordinary educational process. This week, we are talking in this way and if we get the green light of this part of the profession, that this is possible and feasible, then we can confidently also prepare proposals for further, phased, final opening of kindergartens and schools for all other classes, as we say gradually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u307	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u308	Thanks again for saying that. I fully agree with you about what you said about teachers doing professional and very hearty work. The fact is that we can compare with what health workers have done in the field of health care, in fact there would also be a collapse in education if they did not adapt and in this way they carried out the matter. It grieves me, as I have already said, with regard to these instructions that a teaching profession may be under-involved, as also pointed out by the representatives of this educational work, especially the teachers of practitioners, who would say what can be done in practice. Because we know that paper carries everything, some doctor can write down what we have to do to keep our students safe, but in practice it is a little harder to do so. Even when other students return, it will actually be impossible to implement these health rules in school from completely practical matters, because they do not have enough classrooms at school, they do not have enough entrances or teachers to do so. In the List of Marjan Šarc, we would like to, but now we have lost some time to be prepared, but the new school year begins in September. We do not want to discuss similar matters in August, August 20 or August 25, with a similar ambiguity for the current year as we have today. That's why I want to know: Do you already have concrete plans for the implementation of the lessons from 1 September 2020? Do you know how the teaching will be conducted? Do you, as I said, have more plans if the epidemiological picture is favourable and in what form? What will happen in the case of the second wave that many like to talk about? I don't know if some people really want it or just warn themselves. What's going to happen in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Maybe two more aspects of the additional question. I would like to point out, not talk about guidelines, but we are talking about guidelines, let's say about tools, recommendations that we made at schools; not about these classic, heavy, right, what's wrong with this type of guidance. She participated in all these documents in a very different and diverse profession. You said earlier that teachers had no chance to cooperate. Yes, they had the opportunity to have a few representatives of principals — primary, kindergarten, and also high school, high school — participating; psychologists, academics, and so on, we had a lot of representation. But as far as the future is concerned, I absolutely agree with you, the fall must no longer surprise us. We are well aware of this and must also take responsibility as a state. On the one hand, it is very important that we closely monitor the actual experience of bringing children back to school and kindergarten, so that we can see what works, where things are, as you say, not enough life to even justify the educational process in schools. This part is very much monitored and we will use this experience absolutely and take them into account in the scenarios that we will be doing. But there are three kinds of scenarios. One is that we usually return to schools as we do every year on September 1st; the other is that we will go to schools if the epidemiological picture is less favourable again, with the combination of partial education in institutions and partial distance education. The third scenario is that, under very clear safeguards, we can still go back to school and kindergarten as a whole. In short, it depends very much on the current situation. Our task right now — and we will do it together — is to prepare a first or a second or a third scenario. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Member of Parliament, procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u312	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. However, because it is a very sensitive topic concerning all our young people who are educated and their parents, and because it is actually impossible in these seven minutes that you have had to answer all the questions and deal in depth with this problem, I would like, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, to have a discussion at one of the following meetings on the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Dr. Franz Trček will ask the Minister of Public Administration Boris Koritnik and Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u314	Thank you, Madam President. Hello, both ministers! Actually, it'll be a little bit the other way around. I have a two-part question that touches the covida-19. The first question concerns the closure of intensive departments intended for covid-19 in these four hospitals. If I understand correctly, it will be from 1. 6. open only covid department in UKC Ljubljana. I will honestly say that in recent days several doctors and doctors and other health workers, especially from the primary level, have written to me, one way or another, in terms of Mr Gantar, what does this mean if someone in this other wave with whom they are threatened, in the White landscape, in Kozian, Koroška, Pohorje, Slovenian gorges show me signs of where I can send him. The second part of the question of course refers to these famous covid-19 supplements. The Minister of Public Administration has already spoken about this. The fact is, at the time, the fresh Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Ivan Janez Janša, said: Yes, everyone in the first battle lines will get – if I am a little defensive myself – from 100 to 200% of the supplement. Now we have something health workers and unionists call casinos; the government says – almost no problem. If we meet here somewhere in the middle, if I'm polite in saying so, it's a problem. Now it's kind of coming down to the chiefs. In a previous reply, the Minister of Public Administration said that the leaders would take responsibility and so on. However, there is a lot of bad will, a lot of problems already within the power of doctors and doctors, but only when we always forget about other health workers. And these people deserve an answer as to what's going to happen to them, and even when they see those pennies. You know, in practice this is how I talked about it – Janša promised something, the leadership got, and now you won't give us. And now we have a lot of bad energy, if I put it that way, at a time when we should also start some other part of our health care that is very late. You could still have a question about dealing with cancer and so on. I hope to get satisfactory answers, not just me, but a whole bunch of health workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. Who's first? Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u316	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you for asking. Maybe first of all about closing down these intensive departments. Of course, the wards don't close. However, it is mainly about bringing health care back to the established railways because we have allowed it again, among the first of these measures to release, that elective operations also begin, and that an additional number of beds for intensive care for other programmes is also needed. Otherwise, at the time of the epidemic, we divided or ranked hospitals and clinical centres according to who would receive patients with covid-19 as a priority who needed either hospitalisation or treatment in intensive units. And that's still true. The first, which will be accepted during this period, is an infectious clinic in Ljubljana. If the capacity of this infectious clinic is to be reduced due to a new influx of patients, which is still in decline and holds an extremely small number of beds in intensive care, only in the event of an increase in this number does it make sense to provide additional beds in intensive units. Otherwise, it is wise to concentrate within one institution, as long as the number is appropriate, because the staff is intended to do so without special measures in all Slovenian hospitals. The current epidemiological situation allows for such a way of working. And since we regularly continue to test all those who have signs of respiratory infection or problems, and we also monitor the epidemiological situation, it seems to us that this is a safe way; and in particular that we are indeed allowing the treatment of all those who have been on the so-called waiting list because of such an epidemiological situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u317	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Kortnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u318	President! Thank you, too, my fellow Member, for the question. As you mentioned, I have explained several times today the background of this, as you say, a famous addition. There is nothing famous about the fact that the government has provided funds from the budget for both allowances. Nor is it that the procedure is very clear: the application of the public service receives funds. You mentioned that there is a debate in some health institutions about how the management got the money and now it's being held. I think communication is the key to every relationship, including between leadership and employees. And if the funds have been received, I believe it is only a matter of time before these funds will be in the account of these employees or when criminal charges will be brought against such a leadership. What I do not understand in all these debates is the claim that the government has not given appropriate criteria for unity. Neither the government nor the Ministry of Public Administration can order how to unify certain criteria in practice, but the criteria in the law were clear – the average exposure to risk, excessively burdened. If I may draw an analogy, this is like the road safety law, where the speed of driving needs to be adjusted to road conditions. This does not mean that the government prescribes that at half a litre of rain per square metre, you must drive 50 kilometers per hour. No, it is necessary to adapt to specific circumstances, this is the state of the road, the quality of the car's tires, including the response time of the driver. And this is what the government has done, given the means and instructions; now it is on the chairpersons, as already under the Law on Safety and Health at Work, to assess these specific circumstances and to ensure unity. We have published two examples of conclusions on the websites, giving instructions, guidance. I really don't understand, and as chairman myself, I had to accept this responsibility for my employees, because I knew when and how much someone worked and under what circumstances. And simply, autonomy and responsibility go hand in hand. Such a chairman is, for a reason, in the position of chairman. That's what pays for it, too. He has to take responsibility, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, do you have a request for a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u320	After six years in politics, it's clear to me that whatever we're talking about, we always come up with a metaphor for cars. It's for the veins to cut. There are also often problems as to who will be able to make the journey to the foreman. Often there are problems in practice, which can tell you that you also have a lower wage as chairman than before when you were not chairman, and you would still continue. Probably the government doesn't know too much about human depravity, the use of equipment, these people don't forgive me, fantasize me, but mostly work hard. In a completely different film last week, I read some serious study by the Korean Institute for Development. It is valid for one of the best deaths in the world, for one of the best think tanks, of course advises the Korean government. The study concerned smart industries and one of the main messages was that the economy expected clear, uniform information from the government. And it seems to me that if I'm developing an analogy, in which I won't mention the car, that the Slovenian public health system expects the same; and it didn't actually happen. Minister Gantar, I'd like you to answer: What does this mean now, if someone in my birth village Zilja in the White landscape has all the signs of covida-19, will be infected with SARS-COV-2, will some transport be organized to an infection in Ljubljana and how? I will not ask for a general debate, I will say in advance, because I am getting a little pale from these general debates. And I can say that this type of question being sent when 6, 7 is sitting in the hall, it's not very ecological to say anything else. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u322	Thank you very much. First of all, someone who has signs and will also be able to prove that he has covid-19 or that he is infected will, of course, have to contact his doctor or emergency medical care first. After the result, it can be sent to an infection clinic from there, which is still relevant according to the current number. Maybe there's something else about this division for these supplements. We probably all agree that the supplements are deserved by those who have actually been more burdened and also more exposed to this infection and who have actually worked more because there was a significant difference between them at the time we stopped some programmes. We have divided public institutions into three categories after they have been burdened, namely those with the greatest, medium and even smaller burdens. On this basis, it was also specified in the calculation factor of these supplements where they worked. The problem with health care in additions and burdens is that, for example, more jobs than the military or police are essential, more and more of a variety of types. I think it's not just the supervisors and the directors, but the entire teams running the hospitals probably know and they need to know who's actually been more exposed or in the most exposed places. I'm not talking about nuances here, or getting 0.5 or 0.10 extras more, but I still think it would be hard for me at the Ministry or in public administration to do this for individual houses. And some have done the job very correctly, some less. You need to know that some who have not seen a covido-19 patient have charged themselves significantly more than those who have, say, been fully charged. And from here, the difference, or the delay in payments, is that I'm the first to advocate that the one who was burdened and worked, rather a little more than less. Definitely, health workers deserve these supplements.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u324	Thank you. To what has been said by my colleague Gantar, I would only add that the anomalies are and we perceive them as well. The first was, therefore, that the funds were ensured that all those who were additionally burdened and threatened must receive this payment. As well as wage inspectors in the public sector, who are therefore responsible for overseeing the implementation of the law on the supplement, they will definitely play their part or work. But it all takes time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u325	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Jože Lenart will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku, who is absent; therefore, Member, please tell us whether you want a written or oral answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u326	Thank you very much, Vice President. Unfortunately, for the third time this month, I am drawing attention to this chart, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia still misrepresents on its portals. And unfortunately, I can't face the minister about it. In the table, comparing the average prices of the supplied protective equipment of the government of Janez Janša and the government of Marjan Šarc, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia still shows on its portals without corrections, which you recognised as minister at the 37th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, where you acknowledged at least that the prices of masks of FFP2 you ordered and partially delivered in the 14th government of Janez Janš were shown without VAT. In addition, you miscalculated the average fan prices incorrectly and misleadingly, where you did not take into account the basic origins of the procurement conditions. Compare the purchase of FFP2 masks purchased at the time of the government of Marjana Sarca, in the amount of 100,000 pieces in three orders with all costs and VAT delivered to the warehouse of the reservation plant, at a price of 4,64. On the other hand, you display signed orders and partially supplied FFP2 masks by the government of Janez Janša at a height of more than 15 million masks, from several suppliers. The average purchase prices shown by the Government of Janez Janša are shown without VAT. More signed orders, of up to 8 million pieces, are more than 50 % of total purchases, taken over – location China, which represents the price without transport to Slovenia and the other costs of imports with all the risks of supply. The cost of transport and imports is borne by the State, according to the Acron supplier's contract. 20. 3. and 26. 3. There were two orders of 3 million masks, at the lowest prices of all, that is 2.25 and 2.30 without VAT, and unfortunately with the footnote – cancelled. And you've taken that pretty well into account in calculating average prices. Your quantitatively comparable order with the government of Marjana Sharca 31. 3., supplier of Medicop, for 49,000 masks, your price is 6.28 without VAT, and the purchase price of the government of Marjan Sarca in the warehouse with all costs and VAT is 4.64. In the fan table, you compared only one fan delivered during the time of the government of Marjana Šarca, which was the highest ranking and suitable for safe and efficient use. On the other hand, you compared the government order of Janez Janša for 323 fans of different quality and purpose of use and of course also different prices. I'm asking the minister: Why has there been so much lack of transparency and deception in comparing prices and quantities during the previous and current government? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u327	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Your time is up. I'm also asking if you want the minister's written or oral answer. In short, Mr. Member, in writing or orally? An oral response. Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Željko Cigler will ask Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u328	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Behind us is the health crisis, where the Ministry of Health has practically been set up quite a bit in the back; the health crisis, where policies have been mistreated by health professionals, and where they have been in homes for older people, which have already been exposed several times today, has been made by various parties. We are facing a crisis of the health system for which the government is responsible, of which you are an important part and institution in this policy area. The health system crisis that is coming is due to the fact that you have not yet taken care of in the intervention measures for the health system, although you have responded to something about this earlier, but I am interested. You didn't take care of the personnel or the infrastructure. A paradigm example of this is already mentioned in nursing homes. Public health institutions and also the health insurance company of Slovenia are under a heavy financial burden, but you did not address this in the package of measures. So far, you have not even proposed budget funding for the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and you have not proposed additional funds for hospitals. Recently, however, at St. Desus, you decided that an increase in health and long-term care should be made. In this respect, Mr. Secretary-General, I would like to ask you: What contributions will you make, and for whom? When exactly do you intend to do so? I ask for an indicative calendar term, not in terms of the answer when the time is right; because the situation is quite difficult. Do you also have government support in this regard, as this support will, of course, be needed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u330	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you for asking. If we promised now that we would be able to resolve additional personnel or infrastructure with intervention measures, this would be unrealistic at this point, because we both know that this is simply not possible in a short time. With regard to infrastructure, we anticipate – and it is already somehow defined – that with the money that the European Commission will spend on covida-19 – for a few new constructions of an infectious clinic in Maribor, Ljubljana and several other projects. With regard to the personnel of the miracle overnight, we cannot do so, we can try to provide perhaps a non-medical cadre, if additional funding is provided, and, on our part, through a general agreement, a somewhat higher standard for health care. The additional funding for the functioning of the public system provides, for the first time, an anti-korona package that will be under consideration this week, which I have already responded to today, for more than 100 million, which means 80 % of the unpaid programme paid due to the limitations resulting from covida-19. Secondly, further funding after advances, as takes place in the first half of the year, for the second half of the year, to have only a little more time in health institutions to adapt to new and different situations. This should provide sufficient funding this year to reach a more systemic solution for the longer term. You have mentioned the contribution rate which is our wish, our party's proposal, including in the coalition contract, is mentioned as an option for additional funding, but this has not yet been agreed upon. That additional funding is needed for health care is clear. We need to know that scissors are spreading and spending on health care is increasing, and the number of active populations is also declining over the long term, meaning, of course, severe financial problems over the coming years or decades, unless there is a change in funding; and we have already experienced this in times of crisis. On the one hand, there will be an option to provide additional public funding for the public system, which we are working towards; on the other hand, of course, what cannot happen is an intervention in rights, which is an unacceptable option for me. The increased contribution rate is a system that does not require much new administration and is far more solidarity and a simple mechanism. If we compare the countries of the European Union, Slovenia is one of those with an average contribution rate compared to the others. If we are already stressing every step of public health care, I think it would be fair to provide a greater share of the funds from this address. Moreover, the problem is that some diversification of health funding will also have to be achieved, since the system, which is mostly financed from one source, is more at risk, any problem, whether it is an economic crisis or anything. We felt this recently, in 2012-2013.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u331	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u332	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General. I give you my answer in the context of Mr. Marjan Šushlja's interview, which he had for the evening of 25. 4. where he pointed out that the revenue shortfall of the Health Insurance Office was around 205 million due to the lower payment of contributions and the deferral of contributions. Secondly, because health establishments did not provide services, they are not eligible for around €95 million. In addition, the number of those considered will be reduced by more than half from now on, which will once again constitute a requirement for a certain optimization. And now I'd like to ask: What contribution rates from the Social Security Contributions Act do you intend to raise, and how much if long-term care is involved? How many employers' contributions and how many employees' contributions and how many contribution rates for other groups of insured persons? Are you also planning to introduce a new contribution rate for long-term care or a contribution rate for compulsory health insurance? And once again, I ask: When are we gonna have these suggestions on the table? Can you get a calendar date? Dear Minister, we are aware that the health system of Slovenia has played an important role; and an important role must continue. Especially because it also has to eliminate large backlogs of the regular programme that were not implemented during the coronavirus. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u333	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u334	Thank you very much. The inadequacy of funding or the failure to reach some consensus has been the result of the fact that we have been talking about health reform for 20 years. And what I have also mentioned to you, what our party Desus has proposed, including raising the contribution rate, is a proposal. A proposal that is also possible under the Coalition Treaty, while for the time being longer than this – given that we have dealt with other problems in the last two months – we have not discussed and will have to open this discussion. I am pleased that this option has remained in the coalition treaty as one of those who are truly just and solidarityable. The question of whether this will actually happen and for whom – for employers, for workers, for both of us, in what way – of course I cannot answer at this point. Once again, I see the need for this to happen, especially in the fact that we will finally have to accept the long-term care that is the obligation and that includes the homes that we have seen today or know that we are facing really extraordinary pressures with regard to space, personnel, prices and so on. It will probably be necessary to find one compromise within all the possibilities of insurance, surcharges, budgets, contribution rates, somewhere money will have to be provided if we are in fact a social state and if we really want public and affordable health care and, of course, affordable long-term care.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u336	Thank you very much. It is a pity that Desus did not support this when he proposed the abolition of supplementary health insurance and a slight increase in the compulsory health insurance contribution rate. I would like to remind you, however, that when you presented yourself as a candidate for minister as a competent Health Committee, you said, quote: "The fact is that today we probably have the least public health in our past." You also said public health is at the lowest level. You also said that Slovenia is a country that makes almost the least budget available to healthcare; and we all agree with that, the whole committee agreed. And even the European Commission has warned Slovenia in the Country Report 2020 that funding for Slovenian health is too cyclical, that is, too dependent on contributions. And in the last crisis, I've talked about this before, it turns out what kind of resource declines can actually occur within two months of 205 million, if the number is already over. And since, after thirty years of public health care, as you yourself recognize, is slowly falling apart and because the government is unable to provide comprehensive and definitive answers to how it intends to prevent this, I propose that the National Assembly conducts a general debate on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Your proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. The next is Mrs Andreja Zabret, who will raise a question to the Minister of Finance of Magi. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u338	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister! The Act on the provision of additional liquidity to the economy to mitigate the consequences of COVID-19 came into force on 1 May, although some Member States of the European Union have already adopted such a measure in March. In the second anti-korona package, the government promised fast liquidity loans to companies that did not have money to pay current obligations to suppliers. Banks are supposed to approve them following a reduced procedure and the money would thus come to the aid most needed. It was only on 13 May that the Government adopted a regulation implementing the guarantee measure under this law. Therefore, in almost two weeks despite the critical economic situation, the banks have not granted any loans with the State guarantee. In the meantime, they waited for clear and unambiguous rules to approve state guarantees and should be prepared by the government, but it took two weeks to think. In fact, just as it took to prepare a report on the contested purchases of medical protective equipment. In addition, in the media and informal discussions it is possible to detect information that companies are deterring high interest rates, which are expected to be twice as high as those on the market. Therefore, they prefer to opt for ordinary loans because they are cheaper, but they can be accessed mainly by beneficial companies. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: What is the recovery of this bill, which we adopted in the National Assembly on 28 April, aware that it is a necessary measure to help the economy? I also ask you: What number of loans have been granted to undertakings under the Act on the provision of additional liquidity to the economy to mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 epidemic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u340	Thank you very much. I have received the announcement of Mrs Andreja Zabrett's oral question regarding the purchase and sale of claims by the Bank's SID. So now I will certainly give this answer on this question. I'm sorry, there's another issue about additional liquidity. With regard to what you said, Mrs. Andre Zabrett, yes. However, it is also true that we are already in the Crown Package 2 and you have confirmed a guarantee or guarantee in the National Assembly, a guarantee of EUR 200 million. And there was no specific regulation for that guarantee, which was also provided by the State, and it is already under the Bank's law that they approach the granting of such loans. With the guarantee, the state guarantees that banks will receive part of the loan refund if, of course, there is no irregularity in this granting of loans. And, of course, with this guarantee, the state gives banks additional security. By law, however, the bank is not forced to do so or to do so. It's a matter of bank policy. And the bank or the state or the government gives her an additional guarantee here. From this point of view, the law itself provides sufficient legal basis for banks to lend loans or loans. The activities of the banks themselves are such that banks can lend. Indeed, the problem here is liquidity, indeed we have gone to the banks here opposite, and it is also true that we actually have contacts with banks regarding this, in relation to this Regulation. Of course, we hope that the banks will take advantage of that. But the government is no longer in a position to force banks to lend loans in any way. The government here or the National Assembly has adopted this legislation, which has led to this. Here you say we were late. Once again, in the first law, the government proposed and the National Assembly accepted a guarantee of 200 million. And as I know, based on that law, things are actually going on. I agree, however, that there is also a provision in the second law where it is possible to obtain credit under that law, especially those companies which are better-standing companies. It is difficult for me to imagine that a company that is not in a worse state because of an epidemic would now be granted credit by the bank with the State guarantee, which in other words would simply transfer this bad claim to the country. We are not in a situation where, in fact, the Government could take such risks too, and not least, this has happened or many bad claims have been transferred to the Bank's Claims Management Company at that time because they were bad loans. From this point of view, we are working with banks and working with their associations, and so on, meetings are taking place in this regard, but we cannot force anyone to lend these loans.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Madam Members, do you have a follow-up to the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u342	Thank you. The first guarantee you spoke of, the minister, for 200 million, is essentially about guarantees, in fact for loans that have already been given. And most of all, it's a two-year suspension. What I'm asking you is an additional liquidity of the economy. And these credits, which would actually help them to cope with the problems they've been facing, are what companies have been waiting for, but actually these credits can't be used because, as I mentioned before, the government has given a late regulation. This second regulation, which the Government has given, is obviously not enough to activate the scheme. Even when I talked to entrepreneurs, they are actually saying that it might be easier for them to have a subsidised interest rate and a lower cost of granting loans. In fact, these costs are not so low, even up to a few thousand euros can be found in certain banks. Therefore, given that this regulation has come very late and that the mechanism is not working in any way, I am essentially interested in: What are you going to do to speed up this mechanism and get businesses to these liquidity loans?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u344	Thank you very much for the additional question. Yes, of course there are a lot of mechanisms and, finally, these mechanisms exist and these mechanisms already exist today. In PKP-2, this is said in this second set of measures, liquidity enhancement measures are covered and, in addition to business banks, the state also assists businesses with measures through the SID of the Bank, the Slovenian Enterprise Fund and the Third Institute, the Slovenian Regional Fund. Thus, the SID bank provides, the development bank ensures: direct financing of companies during the covida-19 outbreak, financing of investments and turnover for sustainable tourism growth, the adjusted indirect financing programme through business banks and savings banks, the deferral of credit payments to existing committees, the additional provision of credit insurance to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic, the provision of bank guarantees, the provision of credits to prepare for export, the adjusted terms of insurance. It's within the SID bank. The Slovenian Enterprise Fund ensures: the upgrading of the loan guarantee measures of the Banking Loan Fund with interest rate subsidies – about what you just said; we also have this option – the deferral of the liability under the credit agreement for a maximum period of 12 months, the upgrading of the guarantee scheme for small and medium-sized enterprises, which may also be intended to finance purely operational assets – is also said to be what this law stipulates, which you say is actually not fast enough and so on; this already exists in the enterprise fund – the extension of the guarantee for deferred payment, the approval of an additional moratorium on principal loans for a period of between 3 and 6 months. In short, from this point of view, what you have asked me about this proposal, I will actually give you and, of course, point out that in addition to business banks, the Slovenian Export and Development Bank, the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, are other funds that actually care about the liquidity of the Slovenian economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u346	Thank you for your word. In Slovenia, we are obviously particularly in the case of guarantee schemes, as it may already be in 2008, extremely ineffective and inopportune. And at this point, I do not see the liquidity measure working. In fact, I also did not get an answer as to how such a marriage proposal was seized and what number of loans had been granted to businesses, so I propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a general discussion in which we can get more answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. We're moving on. Mr Vojko Starović is next. He will ask the Minister of Health, Mr Tomaž Gantar. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u348	Thank you for your word, Madam President. All hailing, including the minister, who is with us all day today. The World Health Organization notes a rather high presence of antiquity, i.e. the emergence of an unjustified discriminatory attitude towards the elderly. This phenomenon is less recognized and visible, not like, say, sexism or racism, but it is also an unacceptable discrimination. The present pandemic has refocused the basic needs of people for food, housing, health protection, safety, cleanliness, but has also refocused the care of the elderly and the attitude towards the elderly. The assessment is that with the pandemic crisis, at least as far as health dimensions are concerned, we have generally done quite well and successfully. However, it seems that we have completely failed to protect the elderly who are most at risk in the homes of older citizens. Of all the people who died in Slovenia for covido-19, the vast majority of those who died were from the types of residents home for the elderly. According to data, I'm taking them from the RTV Diary two days ago, of the 106 deaths, 86 of them are homeowners. So everyone else is only 20, let's just think about it. And of those 86 died in hospitals, only 10 died. These 10 can be said to have received adequate hospital care, but not for the others. A pattern that strong can't be a coincidence. This indicates that we were doing something wrong. In the SAB we ask and ask you, Mr. Minister: Were these people not deprived of access to the highest possible level of health and the principle of autonomy, that is, to choose their own solutions or relatives if they could not? Were these people not perhaps subjected to group discrimination or antitypical treatment, systematic neglect due to personal circumstances — age? Residents themselves have also warned of an inappropriate approach. In a letter to you and your colleagues, the caregivers at home in Poljčany wrote that they were appalled at the treatment of the elderly who were ill with covido-19. What kind of settlement can [[Michorone shutdown]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u349	Thank you very much, Member. Your time is up. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u350	Thank you very much. Covid-19 is, of course, a disease that affects the older not only in Slovenia, but in all countries. Here I can, as I said in a similar debate, of course I am sorry for everyone who died, but I simply do not think that this was the case and that it is not discrimination to treat the elderly. If I look at another country, in Sweden, for example, 90% of those who have died over 77 years of age, in Belgium from 77%, in Italy, because home supplies have very few, very few beds, 40%, but also the elderly. So we're talking about numbers that are somehow logical, given that it's actually older people who have a kind of accompanying other diseases. I hope to say that our attention has also been very high in the homes of older citizens, with the first need to adapt the health system to the situation. You need to know that, of course, it is always up to the doctor to decide who goes to the hospital and who doesn't go to the hospital. And that in this case we have enabled not the doctors themselves to be in too much distress, in fact a multidisciplinary approach, team-based treatment by doctors, specialists at the level of hospital treatment, for all three homes where there were the most problems and, of course, the rest of the treatment, from epidemiologists to palliative medicine to health care, which was highlighted, increased and actually directed at the homes of older citizens. In these homes, the most tests were carried out as a percentage of the number. Therefore, the proportion found and infected in the homes is undoubtedly higher than in the rest of the population. And I hope, of course, that doctors of course were able to assess, as they always need to know, which patient is in the hospital and which patient can also be in the care and supervision of the elderly. In fact, homes are not only social institutions, but they also have health programs and covid-19 is also performed as a mild form of some respiratory infection or even asymptomatic. In this case, of course, the numbers are also useful. If we look among those who stayed in their homes, in fact, the 214 who were infected were cured without the need for hospital treatment, and 55 are true that they died in their homes, too, by unfortunately not having adequate data, whether they were all killed by covid or by covid infection, which is a big difference. On the other hand, 54 were hospitalized and the proportion of deaths was significantly higher, it is said, 23 had left the hospital, and 31 had died in the hospital, meaning again, heavy patients, no doubt being hospitalized. And from that, it would be hard to say that we left the elderly behind. If we look at the general data, only 1.7% of the 18 thousand 800 home care providers were infected. 1.7 %. And the largest share is indeed in three homes, where in every particular situation they were really specific. In Metlika it was the beginning of an epidemic, where it was not really clear what was going on in the start and, of course, there was also no protective equipment available to a sufficient extent, and it was only necessary to organise a way of working. This was also attended by doctors from New Town. Similarly, I could describe what happened in the other two homes that contributed to this large percentage of those who died in their homes. Once again, I reject that they have been neglected.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u351	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Members, would you like to complete the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u352	Thank you very much. I have used this problem with residents of home for older citizens in relation to old age, because we have been waiting for some measures in this country for decades to strengthen health care and other public services. We are also waiting for the Long-Term Supply Act for a decade or more, and we are also waiting for a demographic fund to help coordinate the dose rate and so on. This kind of relationship shows that we don't have an understanding of the older population, and that's some sign of antiquity, and we have to think about it, and we have to do something. Minister, I'm asking you a question: Do you not judge or feel that there is discrimination against the elderly in our society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u353	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u354	Thank you very much. I think that our society has proved to be insufficiently sensitive in all its years to the problems of the older population and also, of course, to the problems that we have been alerting to in the healthcare system for all years. Even in this crisis, both were in fact the most affected and affected. In fact, homes for older citizens are institutions that are human and financially fed while also being financially accessible to older citizens. This belongs to another area, and I do not want to share the blame here, in fact it is our responsibility to find a source and a way of financing and, of course, to regulate the situation. Indeed, you need to know that even with the help of health - care workers, who were to wash them, who would feed them, who would raise them, who would lead them to a higher level, because the task of health workers was not all. There are also a lot of spatial conditions, I'll say, exemplary, in most cases much less. The fact is that this has been a consequence of the failure in this area for perhaps the last 10, 20 years. The age structure of caregivers has increased during this period, including the complexity of care, but standards for their treatment have not changed. Of course, we cannot be proud in this area as a country in the long term that we have allowed such situations to take place. But at the time of the epidemic, of course, we were able to solve what was possible. And because of this, as has already been said, the epidemic has affected two systems, which have somehow been neglected in all their years.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u355	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik will set up [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? Mr. Starovic, do you have a procedural proposal? Yeah, raise your hand next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u356	I would like to propose a discussion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Apparently, it also follows from the Minister's speech that we have actually left things quite a bit in this area, and that also beats us. According to my country, which mistreats its citizens, once creative, now elderly people, has no real future. It's our fathers and mothers, it's also about their parents, who belong to them with full respect for their identity. It is people who have left behind much work, effort, and knowledge that we also enjoy. They're the ones who built us universities, let's be honest, power plants, railways, kindergartens, roads, not to say, hospitals and both university clinical centers. If they don't have this access, equivalent to what they wrote at home in Poljčany, then something's wrong here, it's against all ethical standards. I believe that in the future we need to give special attention to the care of the elderly, their role in society, their knowledge and understanding of the problems that arise with this, and to the elderly and our fears of age, because that is also the reason for this phenomenon of antiquity. That is why I think it is quite appropriate to consider this issue here in the National Assembly and to devote ourselves to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u357	Thank you very much. Your proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, as part of the vote. Now let's get on with it. Ms Lidija Divac Mirnik will ask the Minister of Culture Dr Vasku Simoniti a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u358	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings, respectable vice president, distinguished minister, colleagues, colleagues, what's left of us! My question is like this. How important the independent public service RTV has proved to be, especially in recent times, at the time of the epidemic. The press conferences launched by the Government at a distance allowed for RTV. Even at the time of the closure of the school, RTV produced a special broadcast to Isodro. To help graduates prepare for an essay in Slovenian, they also placed Cankar’s work on the television program. This is the work of RTV on one side. On the other hand, we have the relationship of your party, the distinguished Minister, to the media, as reflected in the text sent to the Council of Europe, and the publication on social networks, which, by direct threats to and pressure on journalists and by accounting for the public institution of RTV Slovenia, threatens the freedom and independence of the journalistic work so that the tendency to interfere with editorial policy does not even begin. Nor is it possible to ignore the fact that the former director of Nova24 is today even the Minister of the Interior, nor is he the only representative of the government associated with the media. It cannot even be avoided that an unfavorable attitude towards the media is just a step towards trying to discipline and adapt the media landscape to the taste of the largest government party, which is also the loudest critic of the media. The fact is that Slovenian media legislation needs changes, but those that will ensure, a, media plurality, b, freedom of editorial policy and, under c, journalistic work. But no matter what you say, Mr. Secretary, I ask: What legal amendments to the Law on Radiotelevision Slovenia, the Law on the Slovenian Press Agency and the Law on Media are you preparing? Which one should we expect first? In view of the early resolution of the three supervisors of RTV Slovenia and the appointment of new ones, in view of the attempt of early resolution of the two supervisors on a proposal from the SDS party, which is, of course, illegal and unconstitutional in the view of the Law-Legal Service, and in view of the appointment of the new programme councilors of RTV, we conclude that it will be the first in line with the Radio Television Act of Slovenia? Am I wrong? I would politely ask that your answers are very specific. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u359	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u360	Thank you very much. The MEP spoke of direct threats to journalists, interference with editorial policy and similar matters. I don't know what you're talking about, especially on RTV. In my opinion, RTV works under the RTV Act, which has been applicable to certain corrections since the first Janšev government 14 years ago. The Media Act also applies. And, of course, both laws are so good that with some novelties they are still valid today. Of course, all the governments that have been so far have failed to produce new marriage texts and have only amended existing laws in some details, one would say, which are not crucial. Now all of a sudden I hear, I don't know, I haven't read, there are some proposals after the amendment of the RTV law by the opposition that we need to change the board. So I don't know, I don't know that. The fact is, of course, it is necessary to amend the Media Law to a certain extent. As you know, this media law was already being prepared before this government came forward, especially because it has to respond to the challenges of time, especially with regard to digital reality, if I say so. And this law, this novel was prepared by the previous government, in particular in the public debate, has actually collected about a thousand pages of some comments. Of course, at the Ministry, we are now carefully studying these comments, which is why the experts are doing so. I hope that this media novel will be prepared in such a way that it will not even be necessary to present it in such a way that a new law is needed, but that we will simply amend it. These comments, which have been given here, go deep beyond the normal norm and the whole law should be amended. I think, probably, so I can't say, it won't be necessary, it will certainly be necessary to provide for some changes in the regional media, with local media, to give them effect as they do, and, of course, in this regard probably also to a certain extent of the RTV Act, which will have to take over the likely share of the financing of these media, which is now based on the state budget. However, the state budget after 2004 until 2008 has never provided sufficient resources, and as much as the law provides, no one has asked any questions about this. The only government that did this is the first Yanshe government to provide as much or even more funds as it was. With regard to the media laws, I must say that a new Law on Audiovisual Media Services is also being prepared, which will take into account all those matters relating to the European Directives that need to be implemented this year, so that we will not pay a penalty of course. Of course, it will be necessary to amend the RTV law to a certain extent, and we will propose amendments to Parliament. The nature of the television media itself has changed considerably in the age of the internet and digitisation and, of course, in all technical changes, we must also preserve the character of public television, television at the level of time and the challenges of time. I think there will be some changes. What is changing is left to professional services that have not even completed their projects. I hope that's clear soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u361	Thank you very much. Madam Members, would you like a request to complete your reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u362	Thank you very much. You said there were also supposed to be changes to the RTV law, but that's what the professional services are preparing so you don't know why. But I'm very interested in: Who is preparing these legislative changes? Is it true that there's a rumor that two, three people are doing this in strict secrecy, God forbid there's any information coming out, and that you're not even among them? Does it hold what it says today in the Journal, which is that you are preparing the ground for the replacement of the Director-General of RTV and that this is the only change you are preparing? Will you support the LMŠ proposal that we have tabled in the procedure to change the Radio Television Act of Slovenia in a way that reduces the impact of policy on the functioning, especially the Programme Council, because it seems crucial to us that civil society really appoints its representatives to the Programme Council, not civil society, in the notes, of course, the one that is excluded from politics and is also elected in the State Council itself? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u363	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u364	Thank you very much. Who's preparing? They prepare fellow workers who are working at the Ministry of Culture. It is usually prepared in a certain small group, so it is usually always. Or so I would say, or was it not always the case, they usually gave laws to write out for, say, 30, 40,000 Euros of whatever kind and then they wrote it, and then the laws were not even adopted, and they didn't last long, and they didn't. The law that is still in force today was written 12-14 years ago at the Ministry of Culture, so I don't think I see any problem. I don't know if we're preparing to replace the CEO. There's no way through the law. I don't know if the Program Council has a role to play. I think she wanted to get rid of him a good year ago. After all, this director did not receive, as he would have said, he was not even unlocked by the Supervisory Board last year, of course he also showed loss. I'm not gonna judge that. I think they also wanted to call him off, but one voice was running out last year so that, or before last year, I don't know if they'd call him off. He probably did not have that confidence on the part of the then programming council, at least to the extent that he held on to one vote. We know that the Council is made up of 29 members, I think there were 14 members to replace it, but one vote against it. So he probably didn't inspire any special trust. What I'm looking at is irrelevant at this point in time to say. The Director-General shall be replaced or appointed by the Programme Council. From what I hear, your client is supposed to reduce the impact of policy on the programming board. So, above all, it is obvious from yours that the policy on the Programme Council also affects today if you want to reduce. Very interesting. And you want it to shrink. So, you still want the impact of politics, but of course it is smaller, but I believe that for other reasons, as it would probably be necessary to say so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u365	Thank you. Madam Members, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u366	Thank you very much. Yeah, it's a hot topic. Very hot. In view of what Mr Minister said at first he did not know exactly that there were some changes, then he immediately knew what the LMSH party wanted. I propose that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, this debate be held because it is necessary. The media legislation will obviously change and it seems important to me that these matters do not take place in a circle of two or three people, among whom there is no minister at all, but that we also hold a debate in the National Assembly, decide whether or not we want politics to have an impact on the Programme Council. As far as I am concerned, we have made it clear in the List of Marjana Sharca that we want that policy has no impact on the Programme Council and, of course, as a result, it has no impact on the Director. Therefore, as I say, I propose that we hold a debate on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u367	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. We will decide on your proposal on Wednesday, as part of the vote. We're moving on. Mr Miha Kordish will ask the Minister of the Environment and the Magi space. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u368	Thank you for your word, Madam President. At this meeting, we will consider amendments to the Nature Conservation Act, by which the authorities want to exclude naturalists from participating in administrative and judicial proceedings in projects that are harmful or potentially harmful to nature. The Government's efforts against the environment are led by Minister Vizjak, who holds the post of Minister of Environment, on the basis of the experience you have gained as a project leader for obtaining environmental consensus for the Hydroelectric Power Plant Mokrice in HES. At that time, you were dismissed by the Administrative Court after being sued by one of the nature-protection organizations. This action was successful because the environmental objectives for the living fish population are not sufficiently set there and because you did not put on HES sufficiently well the compensatory and mitigating measures that this plant would have built. At the Environment Agency and the Ministry, which you are now running, you have both eyes closed, but the Administrative Court does not. In paragraph 30 of the judgment, I quote: “When the protection objectives of both special protection zones are clarified, it will be possible to assess whether the measures envisaged are relief or countervailing measures referred to in Article 102(1).” It is the protection areas of Lower Sava and Krka with tributaries, both part of Nature 2000. While the objectives are set out in the 2000 management programme, as the result of the judgment, these objectives are too vague and it is also not possible to know whether the envisaged compensatory and mitigating measures are correctly or wrongly set or not. You now want to disable nature conservationists so that your new environmental consensus can no longer be brought down in court and, of course, quickly build a power plant and compromise all environmental standards. But the biggest energy lobbyist is now the minister. That's why I'm asking this minister: Will you adequately complement the Natura 2000 management objectives of the Lower Sava and Krka region with tributaries? Will you consult the European Commission on the appropriateness of the protection objectives to be set again, as the Ministry of Environment and Space has repeatedly called for by the Office for the Protection of the Nature of the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u369	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u370	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for this question. However, I must say that you have been very poorly taught about this case, because we were not sued by a non-governmental organisation, but by the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which issued an environmental consensus. The action was therefore directed against the environmental consensus issued and verified by the Ministry of Environment and Space. The investor was merely an instigator or investor of an application for environmental consent. So it's not the instigator or investor who misdefined anything, but apparently ARSO took it wrong in a decision that the lawsuit attacked and was essentially successful in just one process and then followed some instructions. And this procedural part was just that this society, this claimant, did not get an insight into a study, an idiologic study, which was not actually from the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which claimed the procedure, but demanded it from the manufacturer of this study. I will not go into this judgment of the Administrative Court, but at least what is to be underlined, there is no indication in the Court's judgment that this project is in a natural and environmental sense a problem. There is only one procedural dilemma with regard to the definition of mitigating and countervailing measures. The fish do not care if a single measure is referred to as a favourable or countervailing measure. It is important that the measure is taken, it is important that the measure is effective, and it is important that living organisms both in and around the river have adequate habitats or adequate living conditions. Another point I would point out is the adoption of the State Spatial Plan for the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant in 2013. It was adopted on the basis of a positive environmental report. So, the location of the hydroelectric power plant and all the hydroelectric power plant arrangements are part of the Slovenian legal order, as the Government then adopted the regulation. At the time, it was not the government of John Janša, but it was another government led by, say, an ideological left party. In short, this project goes beyond Andrej Visiak, also goes beyond a political option that is in power at this time, but this project is essentially regulated by the Law on the Conditions of the concession for the construction of a hydroelectric power plant on the Lower Sava. So, the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant received a positive environmental report, as well as all the positive consensus of the Fisheries Institute. Subsequently, in the same section of the Sava, Natura was announced, in 2014, despite the fact that the Institute for Fisheries in the 2011 study underlined that the introduction of Nature for the cover on the Sava did not make sense. So I claim with full responsibility that Natura has been declared on the mind, without professional grounds on this river, and has caused many complications, in fact not substantive, but more or less procedural in terms of what some measures are, or countervailing or pardoning. I can tell you that the project is still the same as it was then, but I do not know how many years ago, and the Posavci or village villages are exposed to floods that would otherwise not have been exposed to them if the flood embankments, which are part of this project, were built. In fact, it is a matter of challenging one project without serious substantive reasons, without any natural protection reasons, but more or less because of the principled opposition of this society to all the wraths on the rivers and also on the Sava River, without taking into account the decisions already taken by the Government and Parliament. By amending the Nature Conservation Act, we do not want to eliminate naturalists, on the contrary, we want to have responsible environmentalists who represent a minimum level of public interest, as we recognize in 50 active members. However, we do not want to have subjective individuals blocking projects for more or less principled reasons than substantive reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u371	Thank you very much. Mr. Member, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u372	Thank you for your word. At first glance, we may say that this was the case in the Administrative Court’s judgment on procedural errors, but as soon as we dig through the intestines, we know that this is not true. Behind these procedural errors lies the entire lobbying chain of adjustment of decisions and documents to the pressures of the energy lobby, including those directed by Mr Minister, now Minister Vizjak. In short, a procedural error is the tip of the iceberg, behind which is the entire history of purposely preparing the necessary documents in a way that makes them as loose as possible. Everything that has been done so far in the Natura 2000 management programme for the lower Sava and Krka with tributaries has been wrong. And that's why all the documents where this program is taken into account are wrong. The European Commission's recommendations on space placement make it very clear that the objectives of nature protection are above the goal of hydroelectric power plants. And you, as Minister of the Environment, should first clearly define the objectives of the execution programme, as requested by the court, and then the company from which you came to the Ministry of Environment and Space would have to redefine compensatory and remedial measures, only after all this had been counted and fish populations really protected, could they start building if they could build. I want to know: If Natura 2000 is not adequately protected and not all nature-protection signatures and standards are not respected, can we expect anyone to initiate proceedings before the European Commission in relation to these irregularities? Do you guarantee that the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant will be built according to all nature conservation standards? Would you personally pay the penalty imposed on Slovenia by the European Commission, if or when all irregularities relating to the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant are detected? You are overseeing the responsibility of NGOs, which are ultimately held by activists, people of conviction, people who are not really paid. Will you, Minister Vizjak, be so responsible for the European Commission's punishment and settle it with your own pocket, not from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u373	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u374	I should therefore point out once again that the State Spatial Plan for the Mokrice Hydropower Plant was adopted on the basis of a positive environmental report and the positive opinions of all operators of space regulation, including the Institute for Fisheries and the Institute for Nature Protection in 2013. Everyone agreed to this project. Where were these NGOs, which you believe are a key advocate of nature conservation, when a key decision was taken for this project. Where were they when everything was really so wrong? Now in the final phase, the issue of environmental consensus, but everything is wrong. No, it's not, Your Honor, it's all wrong. It is only wrong that today some who unite within the framework of associations such as the Balkan River Defence, which prevails irrespective of the measures taken to protect fish, oppose all dams on all Balkan rivers, including the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant and other hydropower plants. That's what this is about, you know that. And to refer to the nature-protection defender in this project, where all measures in terms of nature protection are taken as fully as possible, is irresponsible and is not justified and I guarantee you that this measure will comply with the highest environmental environmental standards that must be met when granting the authorisation. As far as I am aware, it is clear in the preparation that the re-examination of this proposal and the additions is also in line with the recommendations of the Administrative Court that, without doubt, this will be made clear, as I say, that it will be taken care of the fish which are now obviously the only problem in the Mokrice hydroelectric plant, but this is not the case, there is a series of other important natural and environmental issues that will briefly be taken care of by the fish as far as possible with regard to the hydropower project. And, Mr Kordish, once again, you will have to decide how you will charge your phone and use your computer in the future. Whether you will use renewable energy or will only work with the phone when the sun is working and when the wind is blowing, or whether we will have reliable and stable supply of the Republic of Slovenia with electricity, taking into account all nature conservation standards.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u375	Thank you very much. Mr Kordish has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u376	Thank you for your word. Of course, the Minister of the Environment doesn't understand how nature conservation organisations work, if not, I wouldn't be here crying out loud about where they were when this was accepted. These are groups of people who, out of belief, protection and protection of the environment, in addition to all other living pressures of themselves and the family, try to do more when something can be done when they have the capacity in their lives, usually as activists, as volunteers, while Minister Vizjak ranks from the rent of the energy lobby and this minister will now preach to these environmental warriors who they are but what they are not worth. A little background on this particular project, about the Mokricas. Natura 2000 in the Lower Sava area was not announced on a proposal from Slovenia, as is usually the case with Natura 2000, but was included on a proposal from the European Commission. The State responded by not protecting biodiversity in its territory as normal, but by making every effort to ensure that this area is as small as possible, that as many fish populations as possible have been excluded from the protection programme and that only two species are protected in the area. After that, the State set very vague targets for the protection of these populations, as the Administrative Court has determined. All this error with the documents and the restriction of the protected area has been made with a view to doing so. In order to be able to do so, there may also be mitigating and compensatory measures to be implemented in the construction of hydroelectric power plants. And then Mr Vizjak here began to obtain environmental consensus for the Mokrice. This agreement fell for a joke in the Administrative Court. The blame, of course, is on the agency at the Ministry of the Environment, where the objectives of nature 2000 were set in the way they were, and where they apparently slipped on both eyes and looked away when the current Minister Vizjak guided them with a hand that went to sign the environmental agreement. According to the ruling of the Administrative Court, the Ministry led by Visjak should specify the nature conservation objectives and should consult the Department of Nature Protection, the European Commission, fisheries families and nature conservation organisations. Minister Vizjak, now in this ministerial no longer directly lobbyist role, did he do it? No, no, no. Now he wants to cut the naturalists out of administrative and judicial proceedings and then quickly build the power plant, running over all the natural values and sights and laws and others. And that won't be the end of the story. When someone initiates proceedings before the European Commission, it will, of course, find a systematic violation of the rules and destroy one of the protected areas and present the bill to the State as a punishment. And we will pay Mokrice three times – with only construction, with a ruined environment and decimated fish populations and with the punishment of the European Commission. That is why we need to have a general debate on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u377	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, as part of the vote. We're moving on. Mr Edvard Paulič will ask the Minister for Infrastructure, Mr Jerne Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u378	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Minister! We probably all agree that in these times of coronaryism investments are extremely important for the start-up of the economy. Not long ago, we have also heard from you, Mr Minister, that now is the time to accelerate infrastructure projects. At this point, I can say that I absolutely agree. However, if I return to the time when you were still in the opposition, you and your client colleague have raised serious concerns about the course of the route on the northern part of the third development axis. I'm talking about the section from Kentrupert to Velenje, the so-called F2-2 route. You have advocated an alternative route from Arje village to Velenje, which you believe will be significantly cheaper, and construction will be faster and more environmentally friendly. This route is expected to cost 200 million euros less and is expected to be built in a year and a half. This issue was also raised at the hearing when you were a candidate for ministerial office. Then you said it was a matter of priority, and you promised that within 14 days of taking office you would verify that everything you were defending as the then opposition was also true. It is said that the change in the route would be significantly more appropriate both from an economic and environmental point of view and from a time point of view. Today, two months have passed since you took office, so I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: Have you been able to review the project of the third development axis, especially the section of the Šentrupert-Velenje route? What conclusions did you come up with in this regard? Are you still insisting on your current allegations that the change in the route is significantly more economical for the third development axis project?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u379	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u380	Thank you very much and thank you for this important question regarding the third development axis. The third development axis is not only this part of the question, it is from Šentrupert to Velenje, but it is much more. This is a key infrastructure project of the Republic of Slovenia. It is the fact that the Koros and the Belokrans deserve normal road connections with the central part of Slovenia. And we're always talking, and I'm sorry, but we're always talking about just one section, but we don't have to face the fact that, in fact, in certain sections, especially on the southern part of the third axis of development from the Gorjans to the Croatian border, to this day, Dars is not the one who manages this or that Darss would have the integrity to start working on this part, and that our government will change and change the resolution. Investments are certainly a key part of Slovenia's exit from the crisis. Thus, construction has strong multiplier effects on the entire Slovenian economy. Thus it is not only in Slovenia, so it is everywhere that with the start-up of construction, additional investments will take advantage of the additional potential that the economy has. That is why I was at the very beginning of the coronary crisis, when we got into some trouble when the forecasts of the macro-economics of the force were unpleasant, I was one of the first to stress the importance of construction and the start of construction. As for the third developmental axis of the north, the work you've been asking about. Look, I hope we get the call, the conclusion and the start of the works as soon as possible, first on the section of Gaberka and then onward, which Dars is already designing. It's a key element. As far as the route from Schentrupert to Velenje is concerned. You told me that I was defending anything, and that's not the case. I never personally advocated that any route would be cheaper or more expensive. It could have been my fellow Member and I didn't. For this reason, I myself opened a debate on re-examination of the location of the route either from Schentrupert or from Arya to Velenj. There are many dilemmas in this area, not only as far as financial means are concerned, but there are other dilemmas. Even the entire profession in this area is not uniform. But we're not going to do anything to make the northern part of the third development axis deplete, so there's going to be an opening with a delayed period. Nothing. First, we need to arrange things from Velenja, Geberka, when environmentalists or environmental organisations block on the building permit. As far as this part of Schentrupert is concerned, and this part, yes, we have an open debate on this. Many engineers also give us information about what would be wise, what would not be wise. The conversations are open, but don't just look at this part of the route, because it is much simpler than the difficult problems we have in the north with viaducts and bridges from Velenje to Slovenj Gradac, so that I don't keep talking. I will not allow them to be left behind in the development of the third development axis because of this work, even when some civil initiatives are protesting the placement in space, no matter where the Member comes from. But because it is crucial to me when I talk about the third development axis, because I think that this is a key infrastructure project in this decade, I have to open the debate, my fellow Member, Mr Pavlič, even for the southern part. Do you know why? Because it's unfair that we only talk about the northern part, but not the southern part, for the Belokrans. For over a year and a half we have been dealing with environmental permits, we already have European resources to build from exports to the New Town East to the Centre, where the Revoz factory is the first part, and then forward to the Malin tunnel. We're blocked in all areas. And I'm asking you here for your support, including the Members of Parliament. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u381	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u382	Thank you very much. As to the importance of building a third development axis, we both agree definitively and also on other major investments, the second track, the Karavanka tunnel. I asked you this question very specifically because it was a topic at your hearing for the minister and you made a promise there that in 14 days you would check this route Šentrupert-Velje or Arja Vas-Velje. It is true that your client colleague has highlighted these savings and also the pace of construction, but you, too, on the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, have confirmed this statement to some extent. In view of this promise and the importance of this project, I would still ask you to carry out the audit, as far as this section is concerned, and I would also ask you to inform me in writing about the findings and to provide you with professional grounds for your decision. In this light, however, I would like to draw attention to another fact: the Government has introduced a law to remove obstacles to the implementation of important investments into the procedure. This law provides, inter alia, for mandatory application of the European Commission guidelines in the participation of third-country operators. It is essential that a provider can be excluded from a third country if it fails to comply with European social and labour standards. From past experience, however, we know that the supply of domestic companies may have been much higher than foreign offers, which would have been a reflection of the project. So tell me, Mr. Secretary: How do you think this law will affect the third development axis project?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u383	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u384	It's a great discussion and I hope we can do it again and again because it's a very important thing. Look, if I didn't tell you anything about the third development axis, then we know what's going on, which route is valid. We know that a certain one is being placed or that we are talking about a certain one. Secondly, what we are reporting or what I was talking about at the hearing or earlier in the past, my colleague, Mr Reberšek, was talking about another placement. For the time being, what was then placed is valid. I think that in 2008 and 2007 it was this route that exists. However, there is a serious reflection on any initiative that anyone, whether it is a Member or a Civil Initiative, is taking place. And then I was obliged or still obliged to listen to every initiative as a democrat, as a politician who respects different opinions. And I think it's the right thing to do. Yes, I agree, as soon as anything goes wrong, Mr Paulič, as the former President of the Infrastructure Committee and a member of the Committee, I think we are meeting now, and I will also tell you in concrete terms that we will be happy to make it clear to all. As regards the guidelines of the European Union. See, these guidelines of the European Commission are at the same time very simple and have clear communications that do not apply, I hope that they apply not only to the story of the third development axis but also to other projects to achieve a multiple effect through construction in full. They are not their own purpose, and the European Commission has not written them down for its own purpose, but has written them down for a specific purpose in 2018. And I support that they are now in the new Visionary marriage. Let me tell you, Mr. Visiak and I have talked about this a number of times. Because if we don't write these guidelines down for important infrastructure investments, then the question is if we get a whole multiplier effect through the construction that I'm offering us, as if we could get it. There are other ways to replace these guidelines, but this moment seems most important that we have somehow implemented these guidelines through this legislation, which has been proposed and adopted by the Government and now in the National Assembly. This is how we help the entire Slovenian economy with this reciprocity, and this seems very important to me. Here we can further increase the GDP of the Republic of Slovenia in this way. Thank you for the questions. With regard to the guidelines, this is a very important discussion on this and I think that we have talked too little about this in the past about what these guidelines mean.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u385	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u386	Thank you very much, Chairman. As far as the guidelines are concerned, it is very likely that we will hold a debate this week when the law proposed is at the point of the agenda. I've got a lot of political answers. I've asked a lot of specific questions. So I propose that, given the importance of the topic and also the questions that may still arise, a general discussion should take place in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u387	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 May 2020, in the framework of the votes. The Magnificent Messenger. Andrej Reich will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Dr. Aleksandri Pivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u388	Dear Minister! The covid-19 epidemic has hit our lives hard. She showed us how fragile and import-dependent we are as a society. Economic activity and cooperation between the countries of the European Union have virtually stopped for two months and, due to health conditions, even travel to neighbouring municipalities has been banned or restricted in Slovenia. Nevertheless, food and food supplies have not been disrupted and threatened, in spite of the initial panic purchases we have witnessed in stores. Let us remember that in certain stores, trade chains have been seen by looted shops. But thanks for being food-safe for all the employees in the food and food industry, the employees in the shops and, finally, the Slovenian farmer. The Slovenian farmer is working and diligent and faces a number of challenges, such as European competitors: relatively small farms, unfavourable geographical location, high age of the masters, and there are also, I will say, accidents, droughts and pests. Virtually all farmers work at a late age even when they retire. They are forced to do so by poor social status and low-income farmers. Madam Secretary, I know this isn't direct to your department, but it's tanning you indirectly. I want to know: What will you, as Minister of Agriculture, do or propose to improve the situation of the beneficiaries of farm pensions? We know that these are very low, but we're talking about about about 15,000 beneficiaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u389	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u390	The honourable Member, honourable President, thank you for the question. I very much agree that the current crisis or the situation of the epidemic is again, or even more, sensitising the Slovenian public about the importance of agriculture and, in general, the whole sector, namely agriculture, the food processing industry along the entire chain. I think that at this time a very important realization has happened that we have again begun to recognise the importance and validity of Slovenian farmers. I hope that this sensitivity or sensitivity, and of course this awareness, will last for as long as possible, because somehow the belief is true that when we react very sensitively in such situations, we also forget this very quickly. It is true that the situation of the Slovenian farmer is quite difficult, not only because of receiving low pensions, but in general the recognition of the Slovenian farmer in Slovenian society is extremely bad. And the situation you were talking about, that Slovenian agricultural space is specific, has specific conditions for operation, i.e. smallness, fragmentation of farms, specific geographical position, high age certainly gives this sector or the general position of the farmer an even more difficult position. It is true that the situation in the area of rural pensions is also extremely acute. I think that not only does this concern our department, in fact, as you yourself have found out, is not the full competence of our department, but in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs since the retirement of farmers has remained on such a low level and when state pensions have been abolished. We have already given several initiatives in the previous mandate to regulate the area of rural pensions. Given that it is difficult to regulate within the existing pension system, because it is not a matter for farmers to pay the full amount of rights, we have proposed that this should be governed by social transfers or by a kind of social measure that would raise it to at least a level which, of course, enables some decent survival or over the level of the poverty threshold. The story is quite complicated and we have actually fallen behind in the discussions in the previous government when the initiative was somehow matured to prepare it in the form of a single article of marriage, which I believe will be enough political will from all sides, because it actually represents an extremely problematic area where, as you yourself have mentioned, despite all the large numbers of farmers living with pensions of 230, there may be several more euros, which does not actually allow any conditions for survival. And there's another problem. This generally difficult social situation, of course, does not give the young generation any promises or shows such a picture that young people would also like to remain in this sector. As far as rural pensions are concerned, we have also given the initiative to the new minister to deal with social adjustment. I believe that when the initiative is brought to a decision point, it will also be supported by all other parties, because I believe that this part of the population or this Slovenian sector deserves much more respect than at this time, as demonstrated by the current situation when we are all talking again about the farmer and about the high respect of the Slovenian farmer. However, during the preparation period of the anti-korona package, we have proposed that even the rural population, which is said to be older than 65 years old, receive assistance in the form of a social allowance of 150 euros, which is, of course, a one-time story, but I believe that in the form of a similar matter, this can also be brought to some permanent level and provided with a normal source of survival.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u391	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u392	Thank you very much. I'm really glad you're trying to improve the situation of pensioners and farmers. We know that farmers work, including retired farmers work, sell their crops in markets, have obligations, like all pensioners, to visit shops, doctors. These are all obligations and tasks in which the use of a protective mask is mandatory. The application of the protective mask is in force and, as it seems, will remain in force in the future. In the SAB party, we therefore proposed that all pensioners be allocated the required amount of this protective equipment, i.e. protection masks, as long as these restrictions are in force, to all pensioners, including those receiving the farm pension. This is a measure that will significantly improve the social situation of the most vulnerable members of our society. This is a total of more than 600,000 pensioners, who today have to spend about €50 per month on this equipment, in fact it is a cost that will destroy the solidarity allowance. I want to know: Do you support the proposal prepared by the SAB to provide pensioners with the necessary protective equipment?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u393	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u394	Thank you for the additional question. I am certainly in favour of taking all the measures by which the older population, which has proved to be extremely sensitive and vulnerable during this period, can, of course, come to the rescue. The appropriateness of the measure will, of course, be assessed within other bodies. I will certainly also speak to our Group if it is judged that the measure is meaningful and welcome, of course I will also express my opinion on supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u395	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u396	Madam Minister, I think this is such a serious and important topic that we should discuss. Remember, there is a very vulnerable population, and the problems and challenges it faces are as many as there are virtually pensioners. Remember, even peasant pensioners start working at five and work as long as necessary. If, for example, in the SAB, they would not have been able to enter the store at this time when they are in the field, after the basic purchase, after the medicine, to the doctor, at the post office, then the restriction that has been in force for a long time, at least one month, would still be in force. I will therefore also ask all Members when we vote on this to support our proposal after the debate on this subject, which we consider very important in the SAB. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u397	Thank you very much. We will vote on your proposal on Wednesday, 27 May, as part of the vote. Ambassador Monika Gregorčič will ask the Minister of Finance, mag. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u398	Thank you for your word, Vice President. My question to the Minister of Finance will be related to the upcoming global recession, as a result of the economic halt due to the Coronavirus epidemic and the potential involvement of the DUTB or the bad bank in future government measures to mitigate the consequences of the recession. The recession ahead of us is, or will most likely be, the deepest since the creation of the European Union and Slovenia is not a lonely island in this economic system, is an open exporting country and will certainly share the fate of all its external trading partners. The rapid and effective measures so far to help the economy, of course, cannot prevent these recessions at the threshold. Certainly our companies will face problems of insolvency, insolvency, essentially bankruptcy, business collapse and jobs in the near future. I have no doubt, however, that the Government will also pay special attention and make efforts in the future also in the new rescue measures to stabilise and restructure businesses. Therefore, in the light of future planned measures, I am interested in: Is there also a possible new expanded role for the so-called bad bank under these planned measures? I would like to recall that at this meeting tomorrow we will consider an interim report by the investigative commission investigating irregularities in this bad bank. Given that there is already a legal requirement for the early termination or termination of the operation of a bad bank, in the past mandate of the previous government, ideas for its wider extension with new investment tasks were emerging, in order to create a bad bank as an investor for the construction of apartments and homes for the elderly, but we estimate that there could be only confusion and duplication. That's why I want to know: How do you think about the role of DUB in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u399	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u400	Thank you so much for asking. Thank you very much for these starting points. Dutb was established many years ago, namely, its primary mission was to manage the assets it acquired from banks. This was mainly a matter of poor claims to maximize this asset, then sell it, and then sell it, get as much value as possible for the country to recover the money that it invested in recapitalisation banks with tax money, and get as much out of it as possible. And so, in essence, its basic mission should be concluded in 2017. At that time, the law was amended and, in my opinion, another provision that did not correspond to this basic mission was the restructuring of companies. And DUTB now has a limited deadline until the end of 2022. And I personally do not see any reason for the operation of the DUTB to be extended for any reason. I think it is even necessary to bring together all those companies and all those institutions that deal with state property. Besides DUTB it's still SDH, then we have KAD here, then we have DSU company, consulting company and so on. And so we have a pretty scattered state property, including this governance. Such decentralisation does not lead to greater efficiency. And whatever role the DUTB now has, I think it needs to end. If it does not close, it will be transferred to another institution that manages state property. The plan is, of course, to establish and consolidate a demographic pension fund, a pension fund, a demographic fund, whatever we call it, where it is actually to be pooled and where this money is intended to solve problems arising from the demographic picture of Slovenia, and in this regard would in fact also increase the efficiency of the management of this property. They appear in the public, in the media, if you want, anywhere for various reasons, different ideas, what the DUTB could still do, even in order to buy and sell claims and so on. See, here are all these ideas where moral issues, including financial issues, arise in connection with who would actually guarantee such transactions. And the easiest thing for anyone who has such ideas is to say that there will be a guarantee or guarantee for this country. But the budget or the taxpayer’s money is not to cover any risky transactions that may actually arise. From this point of view, I would stick to the legal dictatorship adopted by this Parliament, which means that at the end of 2022 the DUTB will be abolished. But if, of course, there is a pooling of assets, it can be done sooner.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u401	Thank you very much. We're moving on. The following is Mr Andrej Černigoj, who will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u402	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I believe that during the initial period of your ministry you too are heavily burdened by solving the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic. At this point, I would like to commend the active role played in the accelerated renewal of roads or motorways at the time of the epidemic, when road traffic was reduced and consequently less congestion and faster recovery. Nevertheless, due to a successful response to the epidemic, the view can be somewhat focused on some of the projects that await us in the future. As soon as you presented your application for the Minister of Infrastructure, you advocated the introduction of an e-vignette on the competent labour body. It is a welcome forecast of one of the steps we need to take in our efforts to simplify our lives by using smart technologies. With regard to the introduction of e-vinite, I am interested in: How will the purchase of e-wine and the verification of vehicles take place? Will Slovenia be able to use the technology it already has? Will the purchase and use of e-wine also be adapted for slightly older people who are not most skilled in the use of information technologies? Do you estimate that it will be possible to resolve several times a rather difficult issue of adequate protection of personal data in the storage of information necessary for the functioning of the system? Will the transition to an electronic vignette also have a beneficial effect on the price of the vignette? Are you planning a comprehensive transition to e-vignette or perhaps thinking about a transitional period using a new and old way at the same time? Can we promise the citizens that we will no longer have to remove old wines in the form of stickers from windshield by the time after the new year 2022? Thank you very much for your answers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u403	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u404	Thank you very much, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! After almost 12 years, since the introduction of the vineyards, it is time to take a step forward in the area of tolling of passenger vehicles and instead of the current labels we have on windshields, we introduce electronic vineyards. Let's be a society of progress, let's be a society of digitisation. In addition to the many advantages that e-vinjets have, one of the advantages will also be that there will be no more traditional re-enactment of windshields, but that wine will replace the so-called e-vinjets on the windshield. Some European countries already know this solution. How will this system work? Dars has already checked the system himself, and from a technological point of view, the introduction of electronic vinylity is not problematic. It's not really problematic, it's gonna work. Electronic vineyards will be available both at Dars’ sales sites and at the sales sites of Dars’ contractual partners at home and abroad. To a large extent, these are petrol pumps, gas stations. An important novelty in the purchase of electronic vineyards will be the possibility of buying over the Internet or applications, which will greatly simplify this whole process for many, the process of buying vineyards. The electronic vignette will be linked to the registration mark, so the user will indicate when purchasing the vignette only the registration number of the vehicle for which he will buy the electronic vignette, tolling class of the vehicle, i.e. 2A, 2B for example, and the type of vignette he wants according to the time period of validity, whether it is annual, monthly or weekly. Since the toll of passenger vehicles will be digitised in the future, this will also simplify the control of users, as the use of electronic vignettes can be monitored by means of technical means. It is easy to upgrade the camera system that we already have installed in the DarsGo system for trucks today. This camera system recognizes the registration of the vehicle on the front and the back, so it's an advanced system, digitisation. As I have already mentioned, Dars has already verified whether it would be possible to upgrade the DarsGo system used for tolling freight vehicles in a way that would allow the tolling of passenger vehicles with an electronic winch, and it was found that such a service was not envisaged to upgrade it in the invitation to tender for DarsGo system and therefore the vehicles were not included in the tolling contract for freight vehicles. We'll go to a new invitation to tender, under new conditions. And within 14 days the law on e-vindication in inter-resor coordination and then first to the Government and the National Assembly. What do we gain by e-wine? What a fellow Member asked. Look, older people can buy it the same way they bought the present wine. The current wine is purchased on petrol pumps and the new system will also work this way. Personal data, we are coordinating the law, we have begun to coordinate the law with the Information Officer so that data from registration numbers, designations, would not be misused in order to avoid traceability of vehicles and so on, which is very sensitive. Price. For information, almost 30% of the current price of vinyl represents printing, distribution and then further verification by Darsa’s editors. This will no longer be the case, so the press, distribution and verification will no longer be. At the beginning, when we have to establish a software system and a camera system, it will be a cost, but the cost will literally end. We can save a lot of money, and I hope that the calculations will be so favourable that they can save a lot of money at the price of guilt themselves so that citizens can buy a cheaper vineyard. Thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u405	Thank you very much. Can we move on? Yes, you can. The Magnificent Messenger. Marko Koprivc will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Janez Cigler to the King and Health Minister Tomaž Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u406	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, Mr. Cigler King, distinguished Minister Tomaž Gantar! It is certainly a fact that Slovenia has successfully dealt with the covida-19 epidemic, and so successfully at least this first wave has survived and defeated it in some way. This success is mainly due to responsible conduct by all, the whole of society. The epidemic is gone, and the real fight for humanity is clearly just beginning. Slovenia has a large black mark in the fight against the epidemic. The proportion of the deaths of the elderly living in nursing homes is disproportionately high in the total number of elderly deaths and is a multiple of the proportions of the dead elderly who did not live in homes for the elderly. According to the NIJZ, by 21 May, 323 infections were confirmed in residents and 106 infections in employees in nursing homes. Eighty-six residents of the DSO died. This is more than 80%, 81.13% of the total 106 deaths in Slovenia. This percentage is the highest in the EU, accounting for about half of all covid-19 deaths in the homes of older citizens. Your Honor, such a pattern is not a coincidence, nor is it the responsibility of the previous governments. This is the direct responsibility of this government and its decisions. I fear that the tragic stories for the walls of home for the elderly and the sad consequences of the measures taken will be revealed for a long time. Being human should be the first principle of those who set out measures, safety, health, but also, and especially, humanity should be the guide. Dear Minister, I am addressing you with the following questions: Do the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and the Ministry of Health have a coordinated plan of action when new infections occur in homes for older citizens? How will the ministries act that homes for the elderly do not become just and only nursing hospitals and that they will maintain and strengthen their function as social security institutions for living there, that is, the lives of people there? What measures and activities are planned by the ministries in the field of palliative care and support for the dying during covida-19? Thank you very much in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u407	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Ciegler, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u408	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you, Mr Koprivc, Mr Koprivc, for this question. Let me first mention that in Slovenia we have 102 homes for older citizens. In all of these 102 homes, there are 19 thousand poor providers. 90% of these home infections with the virus, there was no coronary virus. This is the result of the great effort of all teams, the leadership of home, their employees, both social and health professions. We can also assess that measures to prevent and control the spread of covid disease infections in nursing homes have been successful. In the first wave, of course, individual hotspots appeared in nursing homes, mostly homes were in some way victims of the local epidemiological situation. The instructions of the Ministry of Labour, the department I cover, have always followed the instructions of the medical profession, the professional commons, the coordinators, since the dissemination of covid-19 is primarily a health issue. With the outbreak of an epidemic, full of unknowns, we acted in Slovenia as best we could, and according to estimates, even internationally, we were quite successful with the measures. Controlling covida-19 would be much easier if we had previous experience on which we could lean. That is why the experience and examples of good practice are invaluable in preparing for a possible second wave of infections. As an effective practice in preventing the spread of infection in homes, the willingness or possibility for the first, first, positive infected to withdraw from home has proved to be an option to prevent home from becoming a hot place. Such positive examples of good practices are home to older citizens of Rakičan, Radovljica and Naklo, as well as in Metlika, we have been able to successfully infect the infection at such a level that it has not spread across the border of control. All infected elderly people who were considered by home doctors to be better placed in hospital or in need of hospital treatment were also sent to hospitals. With the aim of exchanging information and good practices, we also organised regular weekly videoconferences with social security directors at the Ministry of Labour in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, so that we tried to respond as quickly as possible and as effectively as possible. We have now approached the implementation or planning of measures that we will somehow gather as examples of good practices, an analysis of the situation at the time of the epidemic in order to prevent infections and better prepared expect a possible second wave of infections. There's probably something more to say about that, mate Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u409	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u410	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, covid-19 disease mainly affects older people and, of course, it is necessary to know that Slovenia has on average 7 more beds per 10,000 inhabitants than other countries in the EU, which means a thousand 400 more beds in homes for older citizens. And if we look at other countries, Sweden is over 90% over 70 years old, 77% in Belgium died in the DSO, and we have an average of 86 years of age in DSOs. So it can't be a surprise that, of course, the greatest death occurred in these places. I think that, of course, within the given options, we have also organised health care optimally. Indeed, it is necessary to know that for all years social protection agencies have not only been social, but also health, given that they have had medical programs, health care and also certain and defined doctors for all years. And in this case, I think the teams have taken proper care of all those who needed hospital treatment and, of course, those who were in the homes themselves. What can we do before any other wave? So it's a situation that's been going on for 10, 20 years and we can't change it overnight, not even in a few months. Certainly not, in fact, to find the possibility of any nursing hospitals, one, maybe two, for the whole country. We can provide some additional programmes mainly for health care. We can try to find additional employment opportunities on both levels, health and non-health. And I think that this is in the short term what can be done, which, of course, results even at this point, even if it were otherwise organised, would not be much more likely to change. In fact, believe me, there is no solution if all these patients were also hospitalized, the result would be very likely different. [[sign for the end of the debate]] I'm fine, for now. [[…]] I'm running out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u411	Thank you very much. Mr Member, please, you have the floor to complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u412	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, certainly this percentage is 80% really very large and I don't think we can ask for an apology here. Many residents and properties of residents have also recently come to and explained very terrible and tragic stories, and I say that a key mistake has been made precisely because you have decided - and here I would like an answer and explain clearly why - you have decided that the residents will not be home for the elderly, said to the sick, will not drive to the hospital. That was definitely the biggest mistake. Nor did we have any clear assurance that we would do otherwise at any other wave. Besides, I'd like to ask you: Is it true that the commissions were preparing some lists, lists of residents who would receive only palliative treatment, in some way a firing list? I believe that such measures actually violate the rule or principle of equality before the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I certainly stress once again that it is unacceptable that you have decided, even against the will of the profession, even though you are saying today that you have always listened to the profession, that you have decided that you will not send these elderly citizens living in their homes to the hospital. This also restricted the normal functioning of homes for those healthy residents. Homes are not hospitals, but homes are already visible in the name of a home, older people who choose to live with some extra help at home. But when it comes to sickness, it is necessary to get a person to a hospital, and that is, to put it mildly, inhumanely, what has been done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u413	Thank you very much. I suggest the Minister of Health is in charge. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u414	Thank you. No one and no one and a hundred other times: no one has decided that patients who need hospital treatment will not be treated in hospitals. This is the product of seditious thinking, perhaps politics, that such an idea comes even as an opportunity to publish in any media or even what you are now explaining. You need to know that, for the first time, I don't know him, a doctor, given that I know how we work, who would listen to any kind of policy directive so that, say, it was issued, but it wasn't issued. On the other hand, a doctor is responsible for hospitalisation. A doctor who is sworn in, a doctor who has a license and knows what to do. And we have made it easier for doctors to work in their homes in this way because they have been overloaded, general or primary level doctors, that they have had the opportunity to consult colleagues from a secondary level, with a doctor who covers palliative medicine, epidemiologists, nurses who have graduated, with the entire teams. And now you, as you think, represent a team of four, five, six people who would take the instruction that she would not put someone in a hospital where she would judge according to her clinical picture. Forget it. These are fairy tales. You can actually believe this, but it's politically incorrect thinking, because nothing like this has ever happened in this direction. In addition, it is necessary to know that infection on its own does not mean disease, but is a disease covid-19 which can be carried out in very different ways: from asymptomatic form to mild respiratory infection to, of course, severe forms that also belong to the hospital. And also evidence of this, for example, among the uninhabited, 55 died in their homes and 214 were cured and did not need hospital treatment because it was not indicated. On the contrary, the proportion of hospitalised patients in need of treatment was significantly higher for those who died. So forget about conspiracy theories. I think that health workers have done a lot of work and that it would probably be difficult in the given situation to do anything better, even if they do not hospitalise certain infected caregivers in their homes.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u415	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Member Robert Pavšič, Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar, will be the first to raise the issue in this series. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u416	Thank you very much again, Mr President. And once again, good evening, Minister! The main focus of health care, and also, has been focused on the fight against the epidemic over the past two months. I repeat, it's correct. On the other hand, part of the medical profession warned that the neglect of some patients could pose a risk to their health. Another fact is that, due to the delay in the implementation of most health services, waiting species have been extended. While people were unable to access supplementary insurance services at the Institute of Health Insurance days ago, this is May 21st, it is estimated that it will have a deficit of € 129 million this year, if the institution is not able to release its own surplus, it will be even higher, namely €215 million. The director of the institution recently also called for reflection on this, I quote, “which rights could be withdrawn from public funds”. In short, he called for consideration of the violation of rights. By the way, let me mention that in three private insurance companies money is not missing today, although it is already reported that the price of supplementary health insurance is expected to rise again. Dear Minister, I ask you clearly, and I also ask for very clear answers: What are you going to do about the minus in the health register? Are you thinking about violating your rights, that is, restricting your access to health services? If so, what rights would be excluded from the basket? And one more question. The Desus Party from which you come has decided to propose an increase in the health contribution rate at the meeting of the Council of the Parties. You've talked about this before today, but I'd like to hear it anyway: How much increase would you suggest, but you're a minister and your word means something? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u417	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u418	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the same question. Yeah, we've talked about funding health care today. Now, first of all, I would say, of course, it's hard words when you talk about the neglect of patients. In addition, during covid-19, not only the most urgent, urgent treatment was provided, but also some other cases that needed immediate treatment, while of course it would be irresponsible if we did not provide additional treatment options for a potentially large number of covid-19 infected patients. Fortunately, this scenario did not happen in this way, but the measure also meant the protection of health workers, who, of course, would be in short supply in the event of mass infections. As far as funding is concerned, it is very likely that fewer programmes will be implemented this year than were established by a general agreement, which, of course, means less costs on the other hand. And we have ensured this because the maximum cost in hospitals and health care institutions is exactly the cost of work, which means 55 to 65% in hospitals there, we have ensured that with this new package 80% of the unrealised programme will be covered by all operators. Moreover, even by the end of the year, given the general agreement we now have in the process, they will also receive a monthly flat-rate without taking into account the implementation, according to the programme. This means that public institutions will be able to operate normally by the end of the year. But, of course, we're talking about a projection. We do not yet know exactly what is going to happen, because at this first stage everything that has been added to the costs provided by previous laws has been covered by the budget. Thus, in the next phase, we can only count on a reduction in contributions on the basis of a smaller number of employees and so on. What will happen at this time, we do not know, but the fact is that I can peacefully say that no one within the Ministry has thought about the fact that there will certainly be no violation of any healthcare rights this year, because there will be no reason for this. On the contrary, we expect to explain, nevertheless, what additional programme, in view of the expected lower realization, that despite all the waiting period, we do not go beyond the limits of what has been going on for many years and has not been successfully resolved in these recent periods. I believe that this can be done and that in this case, of course, the money is enough. But in the long run, of course, you're right. Long-term health financing problems lie ahead. I said before, the scissors are spreading, the active working population will become fewer, the older populations will become more and more, the costs of health care are inevitably rising for all known reasons. As the WHO has already proposed, there will be a need to find more sources of funding for health care, thus the system will be less threatened and, of course, it will also be able to follow developments and also to be accessible and solidarityable in the future. This is, of course, the subject of an amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act, which is before us, and of course to the Long-Term Care Act. There will be no solution and no provision of additional funds here. One of the options that has been presented and is the most solidarity and, of course, the easiest to implement is that of raising the contribution rate. Slovenia is below the EU average in terms of the contribution rate, I think it would be right to raise it at least on the EU average, given our continued emphasis on the importance of the social state and also public health. On the other hand, we are a country that allocates practically the least resources from the budget. There's gonna have to be a chance here, too. And then there are like third private funds without which there is virtually no health system that is successful [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u419	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, you have additional questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u420	Thank you very much. I wasn't talking about the violation of health insurance rights. I was talking about the cramping. Maybe it was a little wrong to hear about this mask. I did not say that anything at the time of the crisis was in breach, but the fact is that the waiting periods on some programmes have increased significantly, which is also understandable, especially in the area of psychiatry, and we know that this will be an acute problem. You've already answered that question today, too, so I won't torture you with that again. As for your statement that the financing of the medical treasury was provided in the first and second crowns of the law, I must correct you. It is true that in the opposition we have proposed two additions to the fact that the difference would be covered by the budget or that the difference could be covered by commercial insurance companies with funds that have not been used now, but by the coalition that have slightly rejected it. And now, according to the media, we can monitor how institutions have liquidity problems. Let's say they couldn't pay the extras on the Golnik, but not because the people who worked there wouldn't make it, but because the hospital isn't liquid. You were talking about 80% funding unrealised programs. Tell them at least at some point that people will know how to prepare, when they can expect these supplements. I mean, ideas are great as long as they're listed here in politics, but once they're put into reality. And this money, the means actually tell them to get to the people they deserve. That's all I want: When will the promised funds actually be directed to humans?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u421	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u422	Of course, we have been talking about the lack of funding of hospitals for a number of years. I believe that 135 million were earmarked for this in 2017 or 2018, of course only for the settlement of obligations, while no substantial changes were made at work. It is said that health institutions have problems with funding, it is not from today, it is not from covidcrisis, but it has been for some time. The same is true of waiting periods that have been dealt with by a number of governments over the past few years. As far as these kronapackets are concerned, yes, certain hospital benefits have been fixed and similar, and additional costs on the basis of the treatment of these patient covids are foreseen by budgetary coverage. While the money I was talking about is 80% of the unrealised programmes, this is present in the last package, which you will be discussing this week, and these are direct funds from the budget. The rules on how they will be divided shall be laid down by the Ministry of Health in view of the fact that this will not go through the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. The allowances or payments of the allowances are, of course, from the additional appropriations of the budget. However, the fact is that we have asked the operators to provide accurate data on who, why, in what way it is entitled to these supplements. Given that I hope we understand that they belong to those who were actually exposed, not to those who were not. For those who communicated this information, additional money was also provided in time. It will be provided from the budget after that for those who will make this known. By agreeing, of course, that the people who worked the most during this crisis deserve these supplements. I don't really see this year's black screenplay as much as you want to show it. Of course, this Gordy knot of inadequate health financing will need to be interrupted once and for how much as a country we are really prepared to spend money on public health, on long-term care and on what we have been promising people for many years. I believe we'll find a solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u423	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u424	Thank you very much, again, for the last time. Mr Gantar, please, 135 million years 2017. We all know what this 135 million was about. For the rehabilitation of the 30-year history of handling the health system as a pig with the fur of the entire policy. You've been in this system for a long time, so you know him well. At the end of 2019 we spent 35 million, I remember, that was the first thing I did as a Member to shorten waiting periods. With the pilot project, your predecessor's minister managed to shorten his waiting hours on orthopaedics. All right, you're gonna say hi, and I'm gonna say nice, and we're probably gonna be on opposite shores all the time. The government had completely free deadlines for the reallocation of resources within the budget. And for today’s public institutions to have a negative or that they can’t even pay off what they owe, it’s your fault. Because you rejected both amendments to provide additional funds for these public institutions. But it was more important than anything else. And now, in the third crown of the law, we will only regulate this when the crisis is over. I will propose that a public debate be held with the knowledge that we will not be talking about this at all at this point. But now it's actually been a little bit of a misdirection or ignorance or non-communication with the Ministry of Finance. Because when we talk about measures in intervention laws, it is represented by the Minister of Finance. I didn't see you here at the first or second coronation. And even now, there is no Health Committee called for in the third. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u425	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 May, in the framework of the votes. It's a Magnificent message. Bojana Muršič will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Magi Space. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u426	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! On 17 November 2016, at its 24th regular session, the National Assembly adopted a proposal to amend the Constitution, which enshrined the right to drinking water in the Constitution. At the same time, the 18-month period for the harmonisation of the sectoral legislation was set in accordance with Article 70a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Yes, and the 18-month deadline for harmonising sectoral legislation with the registration of the right to drinking water has long passed. A number of working groups have been set up, but the results in the form of legislation are still not on the table. I have warned every government since I have been a Member, because such a lack of respect for the constitutional arrangement has been unacceptable and I finally understand that, in accordance with your ministerial function, after two months, this matter is extremely difficult to resolve. However, the protection of water resources and the provision of drinking water to the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia is one of the most important strategic tasks of the country. In particular, at the time of the anti-Korona laws adopted, this issue opens up even more than ever, both in the field of exploitation of natural resources on streams and on rivers. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, Does the Interdepartmental Working Group work? Or have you changed it at this time? If it works, have they drawn up legislation that will follow the amendment of Article 70a of the Constitution? Are we going to get legislation into the legislative process or what the timeline is? Thanks in advance for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u427	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u428	Dear Member, thank you very much for your question. In December 2018, the Government set up a second inter-resort working group to harmonise legislation with the recording of the right to drinking water with legislation. The Interdepartmental Working Group has established the basis for amending the legislation. The Interdepartmental Working Group also reported to the Government in March this year or took note of the interim report. In fact, we can conclude from this report on the necessary amendments to legislation aimed at increased control, the simplification of the provision of drinking water to the public service and the provision of water systems where appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u429	Thank you very much. Madam Members, please, you have the floor to complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u430	Thank you very much for your answer. I believe that this report is more extensive than you have presented to me, and in fact the world is really developing, and people's habits of life are also developing with them. We use more food, more drinking water, and I have to say it's catastrophic. Although Slovenia is not so far behind or we still have plenty of drinking water, we are running out of water during the summer. But there are also settlements where there is no drinking water. That is why it is so important that we get to this sectoral legislation or legislation that we need as soon as possible, because this is absolutely necessary. We urgently need legislation that protects water resources that serve the public with drinking water as a priority and permanence. However, these anti-coron laws, in which rivers and streams, without the consent of all co-conspirators, could be set up by water power plants, seem extremely unacceptable to me. In smaller streams, the flow is extremely low during the summer, thus endangering the current’s food supply. Therefore, once again: Minister, please let me know when we can expect field legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u431	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u432	I personally believe that the legislation, and also from this working group, is that additional legal protection of water resources should be provided. In particular, there is a need to respect legislation and monitor respect for existing legislation. As I say, it's a key control issue. Finally, we must also come when we are talking about providing drinking water to the population, to concrete projects, in particular in an area where for decades or even more there are problems with access to healthy drinking water. I'm just going to give you one example of how to supply the coast with healthy drinking water from the back zone. This project was finally launched last week. When I came to this ministry I got to the table the need for another study, it's called a study in that sense. Everything has already been studied there, and concrete action is and is needed. When we talk about the legislative timetable, I cannot tell you this, because this Interdepartmental Working Group has not yet finished its work. As I said, this is an interim report. When this Interdepartmental Group has completed its work, it has not been working now because of these epidemic problems, because it did not meet at the time. Respected, however, the SD has been in all governments so far. This problem is not from today, since 2016. And now, of course, you are asking me, as district minister, two months after the term of office, about the timing of this legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u433	Thank you very much. Can we move on? Yes, you can. Ambassador Zeljko Cigler will ask the Minister for Environment and Space Mags a question. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u434	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! On the website of Hydroelectrica Spodnja Sava HES, where until recently the current Minister worked as the investment manager, and many publications in the media we have discovered that the accumulation pool for Hydroelectrica Brežica after almost two and a half years has not yet been authorised. So the accumulation pool operates without a valid permit. I don't know how a Siamese twin power plant can't have that permission. In the review of the State Spatial Plan and the environmental consensus for this Hydroelectric Brežica, we have observed the obligation to implement the outflow, which will serve as a habitat for birds and will also guide part of the water current along high waters. There's no drain. The arrangements for substitutable areas for naturally important habitat types are envisaged, otherwise six of these habitats will provide a favourable environment for the development of natural success. In addition, an intervention was carried out in the Natura 2000 area, namely a section of 34 hectares of poplar plantations and coastal vegetation, contrary to the mitigation measures of the environmental report, the State Spatial Plan Regulation for the Beach Power Plant and the amended Natura 2000 Regulation. It shows that substitutable habitats have not been established or their purpose has not been achieved more than three years after the start of hydroelectric Brežica. See, orchids on alternate meadows have collapsed, with the construction of the power plant, 80 % of the nets for fish species have been destroyed, which are protected under both Slovenian and European legislation. Five major habitat types have completely disappeared. For seven habitat types, 80 % or more, and for two, 75 %. And the issuer of the scheme, public company Infra, d.o.o., argues that all of these are in line with the State Spatial Plan and the environmental agreement. An application for an accumulation pool shall be issued by the Ministry of Environment and Space on the basis of an assessment by the Environmental Protection Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the body of this Ministry. That is why I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: How will you ensure an impartial assessment of the performance of the environment and nature-protection activities with an external professional operator, since the Environment Agency as an authority within the Ministry cannot even give an impression of impartiality? Are not your efforts to supposedly launch construction on the basis of environmental and nature protection also intended to cover up the outstanding tasks of environmental agreement for the Hydroelectric Brežice and other hydroelectric power plants in the chain? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u435	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u436	Thank you so much for asking. You know, it's hard to answer the obvious inaccuracies and inaccuracies you've given. In fact, you have started to claim that the accumulation pool of Hydroelectric Brezica does not have a usable permit. He's got it. This usable authorisation was issued this year on the basis of a technical review already carried out in 2017. In the meantime, a number of shortcomings have been built up and resolved and, among other things, the nature of the supervision of an independent institution, which has confirmed the appropriateness of the implementation of all habitats other than two, for which the Government is to blame, the former being so. This is a substitute habitat where the existing concessionaire has been extended by a concessionaire to draw on mineral raw materials, and on the same one, the same concessionaire should be able to implement one alternative habitat. And since the Government extended the concession to this concessionaire for the extraction of Gramose, of course it was not possible to do so. And that's actually the only time it didn't happen. With regard to the outflows, I can tell you that the outflows are built according to the project and the coordination. There are four outflows like nests and other bird habitats. No biodiversity measures have been taken, even the industrial poplar plantations mentioned by you are maintained. But you know, it's warm as an industrial plant for the former plant of cellulose Videm Krško, and now it's become some sort of natural value in a few decades. There were also eco-cells for the purple corn and all living nature-protection arrangements, which can be remembered by anyone. And environmental surveillance has shown that most of it has been done. It is true, however, that the accumulation pool is only part of these infrastructure arrangements and that part of the arrangements are not yet complete. But the accumulation pool has a usable permit, as I've already told you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u437	Thank you very much. Member, you have the floor to complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u438	Yes, Mr Minister, the information we receive from the media and those we receive and the nature-protection organisations and experts in this area speak quite the opposite. As for the applicable authorisation for the accumulation lake, we asked Levica for information of a public nature to get a look at this document, which you say exists. Mr Minister, your media lynching and the legislative blockade of environmental protection organisations are contrary to the integrity prescribed by the Minister by the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, Prevention and Eliminate of Risks, in order to make use of authority in contravention of the law, legally permissible objectives and ethical codes. And I told you before, you were on the investor's side, that is capital, even though there is public capital here, that's HES. And when the Administrative Court lifted an environmental agreement for the construction of the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant in 2019, the Court in its comprehensive judgment also pointed out a number of procedural and substantive irregularities, you started in this company, where you were in charge of investment and development, accusing naturekeepers of doing economic damage. Today, as a minister, you virtually exclude them from judicial and administrative proceedings by means of article 100.f of the Coronan Law. I must say that your conduct should also be judged as consistent with the ethical code of officials in the government. That is why we will bring this matter before the competent authority of the administrative ministry, or as regards the conflict of interest, because you have acted in the two roles I have said, we will bring the matter before the anti-corruption commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u439	Thank you very much. Would you like to answer, Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u440	Of course, look, I don't know what I could do before I did this function. Should a natural-security activist be bitten? I have been working in the economy, and I have been able to understand in detail the clarity of certain procedures, certain arrangements and, in fact, the exploitation of the procedural rights of a number of NGOs, which, because of their opposition to the project, are not because of the content, but when the priors oppose the project, they abuse various procedural provisions and always pour sand into the wheel so that it does not go any further. And as a man with experience, on the other hand, which is about content, honourable Member, it is about weighing and weighing for the benefit of nature and the environment, and at the same time what we do for the development of this country, not blocking everything. Therefore, in the interests of the environment and nature, we must also take care of further development, in line with the Slovenian and European guidelines and policies, the commitment after the decarbonisation of Slovenia, the commitment to a greater share of renewable resources, even the binding commitments of this country, because we will pay penalties if we do not achieve the shares of renewable resources, it is also my responsibility. I therefore consider all those who oppose such projects and therefore abuse environmental legislation as an improper approach, because I will also oppose them. And you, if you want, report me to any corruption committee you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u441	Thank you very much. Sir, raise your hands a little sooner next time. You have the floor for a procedural proposal, Mr President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u442	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would like to say this: we are doing everything in accordance with the rules in this country, as a legal state minister. We are proposing a general debate on integrity and taking into account the ethical code of officials in the Government and at ministries when blocking NGOs in intervention changes in construction and spatial legislation. We propose that this be discussed at the forthcoming or future meetings of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u443	Thank you very much. Your proposal for a debate will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 May 2020, in the framework of the votes. The Magnificent Messenger. Andrej Reich will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u444	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Vrtovec, you are leading a very important ministry, which is playing an important role in providing and facilitating economic activity right now in these situations. You've only run the Ministry for two months. Under the tactics of your predecessors, mags. Alenke Bratušek has launched many infrastructure projects and measures that strengthen the geostrategic situation of our country in the European Union, improve the strategic advantages of our economy and ensure the well-being of people. Railway and road infrastructure is being built and, after years, in fact, two key infrastructure projects have finally been launched after decades, the second track and the third development axis, which the Constitutional Court has today confirmed that the constitutional law is appropriate. This decision of the Constitutional Court I personally see as a victory over those who want to block the development of Slovenia. These are not the only projects, but in fact the Ministry is actively working to resolve the transport problem of the Ljubljana region. A project to rebuild the caravan tunnel, the mountain line, and various projects dispersed throughout the country is under way. A single ticket for cross-border passenger transport has been introduced. With 1. 7. Free passenger transport is envisaged for more than 600,000 pensioners and for some vulnerable other groups. I want to know: How is this project going? Do local communities also join the project? Since I come from Maribor, I am interested in other local projects. I am particularly interested in the dynamics of infrastructure projects. In these days we are witnessing the beginning of the construction of the Limbuska oblasta, the continuation of the construction of many cycling routes. I want to know: How are the projects of the Southern, Western, Ledina underpasses, Prague hubs, railway lines at the Šentilj-Maribor-Pragersko-Celje-Zidani Bridge? I also have eyes against the operation of the Maribor airport, which, as a result of the unilateral interruption of the cancellation of the Chinese tenant, would almost lose its operating license and the current crisis in the aviation industry would introduce additional uncertainties. That's why I'm also interested in: Who are the potential tenants of the Maribor airport?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u445	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Please, if you'll excuse me, mate, please turn it off first. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u446	Thank you very much, chairman. The Road Transport Act provides the legal basis for a free ticket for pensioners, i.e. persons over 65 years of age, including those who are not pensioners, i.e. holders of the European card of benefits for disabled persons and war veterans, those who have the status of a war veteran under the law governing the rights of war veterans. This law has been supported in this Parliament by a majority of the parliamentary groups. This law is subject to one specific feature, namely that it has been adopted by budget, which is particularly important or significant. All are subject to the condition that they are not in a working relationship, that they do not carry out independent registered activities, are not managers or directors of a private institution, but this applies only to the use of cross-border line traffic in the Republic of Slovenia and not to urban transport. Regarding urban transport, Mr Reich, so much as you will know, we have already opened one discussion if we can do anything in this area, but here we will also need to talk to the congregations themselves, how much they are willing to participate. In fact, the latter is in the domain of municipalities, or they will also help to ensure public passenger traffic free of charge for pensioners. Immediately under my direction, the Ministry called the congregations, as it was under the direction of Alenka Bratušek, to call the congregations to do the same, saying so, responsibly. However, in future activities in this area and in general in the areas of public passenger transport as a whole, it will certainly be necessary to harmonise between municipalities and the country. However, I would like to highlight how the project is being carried out. Covid stopped things a little bit, especially for the supply of chips on these tickets. We were faced with this right after we took office on handover, which is what your party president can tell you. Furthermore, this is the problem that we are facing today literally. At this point, I have no answer as to how we are going to ensure this, but we need to pour ourselves some clean wine, so that covida makes it difficult to provide this single ticket for pensioners. This is certainly a good measure, which we also supported in Novi Slovenija, in my home party when I was a Member. I hope it's up to one. Seven made it. On the question of railway infrastructure in Maribor and the surrounding area. My first field visit, Mr. Reich, you won't believe it, but it was in Maribor, because all the Moroccan Members also received an invitation to take a look at the projects together. Why Maribor? Maribor is the second largest Slovenian city, the capital of Stajerska, which has been for a long year, at least in my opinion, both on the side track. It is right to pay attention to Maribor. Because if attention is given to Maribor, then the environment will develop. In the Maribor area, a railway station in Maribor is under construction, which I have seen for myself. We are coming into this final phase, the works are being carried out according to the timeline, everything is being carried out within the framework of the agreements. Upgrade of the Maribor-Sentil railway line. Then important, the work at the train station is going on, as I said, according to the plan. Phase six is currently in phase six of the seven stages. When I was there, it was the beginning of phase six, so the work progressed. The completion of the works is foreseen in October 2020. In the framework of the Maribor-Sentilj railway upgrade project, activities are also being carried out to start the construction of a new route between the Počehovo-Peznica section. There are delays in obtaining a building permit, which, unfortunately, is not the responsibility of my department. But everywhere, I have to point this out, it's under another department, and I want to solve it myself, we can't, there are other problems. But even in this case, it's the result of the covid-19 epidemic, because the administration didn't run. If there were no such problems, then the building permit would have been given after the assurances of another ministry. Invitations were sent to party participants with a two-month delay. 5. 2020. Despite this delay, the investment will be completed by 2022 when the European funds are drawn up. In Maribor, the construction of the construction of the undercarriage project on Ljubljana Street is also in the final stage. The deadline for the implementation of all activities was extended until the end of June 2020. With regard to Edward Rusjan, given that my time is running out, I can tell you below, we have received three offers, but we would not be talking about names or businesses now, when [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u447	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u448	Thank you very much for the correct answer. Maybe a caller, even an android can be loaded with an online card, as used for different credit cards of trading chains. However, we both agree that investing in infrastructure has special multiplier effects on the economy, which is particularly important in these times. I'd just like to point out here one problem that this government has encountered and is linked to a covida-19. At its first meeting, the Ministry of Infrastructure for Investment took away 130 million euros and redistributed them to others. And it is true that it is more important than how much money is available, how many kilometres of roads and railway infrastructure we rebuild and build. However, such a method of decommissioning already authorised funds raises several questions and risks for the implementation of projects and, of course, calls for the establishment of a specific infrastructure fund. In the SAB party just last week, we tabled a legislative proposal setting up a dedicated infrastructure fund to finance the construction of the necessary road and rail infrastructure. And the proposal was made by a magician. Alenka Bratušek at the time she was Minister of Infrastructure. The goal is to allocate the necessary resources to maintain more than 6,000 miles [6,000 km] of road and more than a thousand 200 kilometres [200 km] of long rail network. Slovenia needs continuity in the implementation of investments, it needs a predictable investment cycle and economic activity. It therefore needs a dedicated fund that will not be redistributed. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: What is your position on establishing a dedicated infrastructure fund?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u449	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u450	Thank you very much. Look at the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided to devote funds to this common bag for covid-19, it was a responsible act that we could then solve the crisis. All these measures were taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. If we didn't do it, then there would be no such action. The partial interests of individual ministries are irrelevant in this case. I agree that investments in construction have a particular multiplier effect, for sure. And that is why they need to be further driven in the crisis in particular. Attention, you mentioned an infrastructure dedicated fund from the budget. And I want this idea of yours that wasn't made now that you were in the Alenka Bratušek Group, but yes, when Alenka Bratusek was Minister, and I got this law in surrender too. So that there will be no mistake, so the law that arose at the Ministry has now been filed by Alenka Bratušek, nothing wrong, a good political story. By perhaps having a slightly different idea of how we would do it and we would also propose a different form of law. But we're still saying it's the budget fund. This is essential for discussion, and later we can certainly include you as an expert in construction, an expert in construction, and so on, to include you, why for an investment fund that would be non-budgeted. This is worth considering how we would contribute with additional resources to having an additional investment momentum to maintain this golden infrastructure rule, which would be independent of the budget. That's worth considering. Otherwise, I do not mind that within the budget certain funds are allocated exclusively to start up the investment flow, it is said that the Ministry of Infrastructure always has a sufficient amount of resources. Now, I've taken a very flat-rate look at your proposal myself or, of course, I've seen it before when I got it at the handover. I won't hesitate if I do the same thing once I leave my post, if I make that law out of sent-off benches, because the authorship is somewhere else, but we have another idea of how to fertilize this infrastructure fund. However, I am stressing the start-up of investments in the B balance sheet, the so-called investment fund. It is worth commending the initiative to think together about how to provide additional investment funds. Any such proposal and discussion on this, Mr Reich, are always welcome. I want as much money as possible to be able to provide it for investments, to maintain this linear movement throughout the years, not to have it up and down, because every time we depend on budget money and on fat or dry cows, then it becomes an ever-increasing problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u451	Thank you very much. Mr Member, please, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u452	Thank you very much. The topic we have set out is very important, so I propose a debate. I agree that this is a very important topic, and I am glad that we have in our ranks such a capable president who remembered it. However, I would like to point out that in the SAB Group we have proposed the establishment of a specific budget fund in these co-ordinates to which these transfers in the budget would be recorded and monitored. We in the SAB party are very interested in which projects have been taken and where they have been transferred, reassigned and spent. Since this also applies to infrastructure projects, we want this debate to take place because we are interested in whether any investments have been put at risk by time. I therefore ask all Members to listen to our call and to support us in our debate on this issue of infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u453	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 May, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Nik Prebil will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Dr Anjet Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u454	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, good evening. I have one question that has already been raised today, but I will point it out in a slightly different light. The European Union, as you know, must act in accordance with these common values enshrined in Article 2 of the EU Treaty, namely that the Union is based on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality of the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of members of minorities. These values are common to all Member States in a society characterized by pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality or equality between women and men. However, Hungary and Poland are increasingly moving away from these fundamental values of the rule of law and the values of the EU, which Slovenia as a member is committed to its internal and external political actions. It is important to ask where the behaviour of Hungary and Poland in respect for other EU Member States and respect for EU law and respect for fundamental rights and freedoms leads. At present, we are living in a world where we are still facing the covid-19 crisis, and mutual respect and solidarity are all the more important to preserve these European values. And at a time when the European Union will no longer hold together, it will no longer work for the common good of citizens and citizens, I think the existence of such a European community is at risk. And that is not really what the last act of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Hungary, who has republished this historic map of the great Hungary, really helps. No, and it seems that if we follow such actions peacefully and do not respond properly as a country, we will somehow allow the neighbouring country to interfere with our sovereignty. And our sovereignty, which is in accordance with international law, must, of course, be respected. Such an announcement, which, of course, is understood by the citizens and thus by the Hungarian people as some provocation, was answered by Slovenian President Pahor and also by Croatian President Milanović, who clearly opposes such announcements. Among other things, the government led by Janez Janša and the foreign ministry led by you, the respected minister, did not respond in particular. This raises the question whether you may agree with such territorial provocations and actions. So here's where I'm definitely interested: What is your position, the position of the foreign ministry and thus of Slovenia towards such actions by the President of Hungary? Last but not least, we have seen one such issue in the previous term to which the meeting was also called, and some of your current coalition partners have also experienced disapproval. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u455	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u456	Thank you very much. Now I have to say in this question that I did not see, except for the first part of the presentation, where Hungary's behaviour leads. Look, I'm not the Foreign Minister of Hungary. I am interested in where the conduct of the Republic of Slovenia leads. I think that this is crucial for all of us and that we are dealing mainly with what is happening in Slovenia. Look, we just learned today that because of an obviously fictional article that someone from the Slovenian Army at the border with Italy with a rifle gun pointed at someone's head, it was almost an international scandal. Can you imagine? Because of an alleged article. Instead of dealing with the right issues and then some, among others SD Members, use this as a political act of attacking the three ministers of this government. If we need to talk about such things, without the main topic being what is good for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, then the real question is where does such behaviour lead in the Republic of Slovenia. As far as relationships are concerned [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Can I?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u457	Mr. German, I ask for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u458	As far as the treatment of the Republic of Hungary is concerned. I've already answered that question today, and I've told you everything. So I suggest we listen to each other and not repeat questions that have already been raised. I'll do it again. Now, Prime Minister, the previous one, before throwing his rifle into the corn, met with the Hungarian Prime Minister. This was his second visit, where he was invited from neighbouring countries. And at that visit, he made it clear that this meeting was a confirmation of good-neighbourly relations, that the Prime Ministers had assessed relations between countries as very good and close. That Prime Minister Marjan Sarec stressed that, despite the growing trend in trade between countries, there are many additional opportunities to strengthen cooperation and that Slovenia ranks tourism among the more important and promising sectors in its relations with Hungary. This was said in October 2019, recently before the world stopped due to the coronary pandemic. Now I am hearing something from two opposition parties about where Hungary is going. At the same time, it is wrong to assess what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done in the conduct or publication of one of the tweets of the Hungarian Prime Minister. I explained very well in advance that we know the political and diplomatic methods of defending or asserting Slovenian interests. Diplomatic methods must be used in diplomacy. If my predecessors did not use diplomatic routes on similar issues or, as you say, provocations, we used them this time. We used them this time. As I have heard, many representatives of political parties have also used political methods or political pathways, but diplomacy is using what is available to it. I have also made it very clear that diplomacy has different levels of response in diplomatic relations. One of them was used this time, and of course we did not inform the public. Unlike the former Foreign Minister, which is not one of the possible routes, it is publicly in order for you to be likely to be satisfied, to take a political path. But for the Foreign Minister, I'm sorry, this is not the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u459	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u460	Minister, thank you. Now I don't know if you're not listening, but I made it clear what my question is. I am interested in your position, or position, of the Foreign Ministry. Here you say, I have here your magnetogram from before, yes, you said you're also using diplomatic pathways. Then tell me: What diplomatic path have you chosen in this case, and what was your response? You've also said before that you could talk about things that are good for Slovenia. Yes, I agree. In the National Assembly, a lot of good suggestions came from the opposition and you ignored them. So I don't know if that's exactly the kind of thing to talk about. Before that, however, you have also told members from the Left that you intend to closely monitor the situation with all our neighbours, and of course we can certainly agree with that. However, as far as I know, such maps of historic Slovenia hang in government premises, but we have never published them in this way, Hungary has now done so for the third time. And that's why these are the kind of questions I've been asking you. We also know that the Hungarian Parliament, in the wake of this crisis, has adopted a political declaration that it opposes Hungary's accession to the Council of Europe Convention, which aims to prevent and combat violence against women and family violence. Then, on the day the Hungarian Government took office in Parliament, it adopted legislation that started with criminal complaints from citizens who, for example, only made comments against the government online and so on and so on. This is why, of course, questions arise about respect for some fundamental values, which are committed to them by the members of the European Union. Minister, now please answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u461	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u462	Thank you. Once again, as Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia, I will do everything in my power to represent the interests of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of foreign policy. I have previously read some of these interests in the government's press release under former Prime Minister Marjan Sarc, which is also based on the foreign policy strategy. I believe that if this was considered a primary objective and an appropriate target before 13 March 2020 in your party, it can also apply after 13 March 2020. In most cases, diplomacy does not react to the public when it reacts, but it does so through its diplomatic channels. I have already said what opportunities there is, either to call the ambassador of that country on the phone, or to invite the ambassador to the premises of the Ministry, or to call the ambassador of the State at the foreign ministry, either to be heard or to be called at the level of the Secretary of State, or to call at the level of the foreign ministers. These measures tend to be scaled up according to the attitudes involved. As I said, this is largely not referred to by press conferences and is communicated to the public for a simple reason, because these methods are more efficient and more useful or have a greater effect if they are managed through diplomatic channels. You were talking about maps hanging. Slovenians have a map of Slovenian countries from 1864. Children learn from it in schools, is a document of their time, and if you publish it on your Twitter profile, I do not believe that any country will react as much as you expect the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to react publicly about any reaction. Especially in the individual parts that are part of our history. In this respect, all I can say is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will act as measured and on the basis of what the situation will require.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u463	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, if you'll turn it off. You have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u464	Thank you, Chairman. Before I make my request for a procedural one, allow me a brief analysis of this answer. I must tell you, Minister, I agree, you are an excellent rhetoricalist, and you have somehow packed this answer of yours, which you have not actually given. I asked you, given that you told me that you answered diplomatically, how diplomatically and what kind of action that triggered. I didn't get that answer. However, I would like to refer to something else you mentioned earlier, and I have forgotten about this event at the border with the military and our foreign policy possible conflict between Italy and Slovenia, which is now going around the media. We'll probably talk about what's true and what's not. You must have discussed this today. However, I have a feeling that such a matter was not in any way invoked simply because of its likeness, but, as far as I know, they also spoke about it in the Italian Parliament. So it's probably not so much a hair thing, but, as I say, we'll probably talk about it. I also agree with you on respect for the foreign policy strategy of Slovenia, of course, which is why we have them. Finally, perhaps in view of this, I will not say no now, because you say that you have responded diplomaticly, but to some of these things, and perhaps to some of the controversial responses that we are also presenting to you in this mandate in the opposition, we need to discuss in the functioning of foreign policy and such matters, perhaps also the foreign policy strategy in the National Assembly. Therefore, Presidents, I ask that we vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on such a discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u465	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 May, in the framework of the votes. Procedurally, Matjaž German, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u466	Mr President, thank you for your floor. I had to respond to this unreasonable interpretation of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, when it is in fact, no matter what. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u467	What's your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u468	Excuse me. I have my time to explain. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u469	I can if I give it to you. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u470	Please don't bother, I have three minutes, I'll tell you everything and don't interrupt me. Mr Minister has touched on the issue that the Italian Ansa is currently writing about, this is a press agency, and this is the problem of the Minister of the Interior. Allow me to read: “Because of the event, dust also rose in Italy. A Democrat delegation from Deborah Serracchiani announced that, in connection with the news of the worrying events at the border between Italy and Slovenia, she had already informed the foreign ministry, Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maia, and would call on the Slovenian government, i.e. the Ministry, from Minister Logar, to "explain all aspects of this event, the Italian press agency Ansa reported. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u471	Dude, what's the procedural proposal? Where was the rules of procedure in this case?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u472	I have my time, Mr. President, not to abuse [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u473	It's a warning. I'll give you a reminder now. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u474	You're abusing your position. My procedural proposal is [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u475	Another reminder. I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u476	Since you haven't reacted to [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u477	It's not a scandal. I can interrupt if you're not talking about a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The procedural proposal is linked to an infringement of the Rules of Procedure. [[advertising from the hall]] The procedural proposal is linked to an infringement of the Rules of Procedure. [[advertising from the hall]] I can take your word for it. Nothing's true. [[advertising from the hall]] No, there will be no further violations of the Rules of Procedure. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural. Who wants it? Mr. Prebil, please, just say, please, which article of the Rules of Procedure has been violated. I'll give you my word. [[advertising from the hall]] The minister answered. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. German, look. [[…]] [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Can you get out of this session? Here you go. Please leave this session. You no longer participate in this agenda item. [[advertising from the hall]] You won't. Mr Brane Golubovic is next. Bran Golubovic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u478	President, I'd still like this thing to work out, well, we've come to the end of it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u479	You have the floor, please, for the question of the mission.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u480	I quit, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u481	All right, then next. Next up is Jerca Korca. [[advertising from the hall]] The following is Ambassador Jerco Korča, who will raise a question to the Minister for the Environment and the Magi. Andrei Vissiak. There's no message. [[advertising from the hall]] My German friend, please don't insult me. [[advertising from the hall]] Don't regret it, it's nice. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Normal? Since when are you a doctor to determine who's normal and who's not? [[advertising from the hall]] The following raises the question of Ambassador Andrej Zabret to the Minister of Finance of Mag. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u482	Thank you for your word. Minister of Finance, I have a question for him. Article 9 of the recently adopted Law on the provision of additional liquidity to the economy to mitigate the consequences of the COVID-19 epidemic allows the bank to offer before the occurrence of the default event under Article 178 of the SID Regulation to the Bank the purchase of its claims to the borrowers, in the amount of the outstanding nominal amount of the principal of the individual loan in the work secured by the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance and later at the meeting of the National Assembly, I asked you a question, Minister, why the bank would sell claims before the show and why the SID Bank would even buy them out. Your response was that the stability of the financial system in the future must also be taken care of. Of course, I agree with this, but I appreciate that such a flat-rate statement does not answer my question satisfactorily. So I ask you again: Why would an SID bank buy back a claim before the event of default occurs? What are the fuses so that, in the case of SID, the bank would not have a similar scenario as in the case of DUTB, when certain claims under the price were to be sold to connected persons at the start of its operation? In the proposal for the Act, we did not find any protectors to protect against such sales, but we did find an article that would allow the government to appoint new SID supervisors, even though this is not an intervention law. That's why I'm asking you: Are you going to arrange this in the near future, and in the way it is regulated in the law governing the operation of the DUTB?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u483	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u484	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, thank you for asking. The transfer of these claims between the business bank and the SID bank is regulated by a regulation, a regulation that has actually emerged under this law. This Regulation specifies exactly what procedures are needed in order to avoid situations that you have indicated yourself, situations that could also result in a claim that would not have been reviewed by all parties that would not have been reviewed by the SID of the bank, the business bank and so on. In short, there is actually a fuse in this Regulation and it is precisely how this transfer takes place. However, it is true that in transferring these claims, if it came from a business bank to a SID bank, there is, of course, a state guarantee here, and precisely because of the State's guarantee, it is important that these procedures are precisely defined.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u485	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u486	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I must say that I do not know this regulation, so I do not know exactly what is involved in this regulation. I'm gonna get it to see it. But already in the law itself, in Article 9, we were disturbed by this very article, which says that the bank can offer to redeem its claim. Therefore, we also tabled an amendment to the LMŠ at that time that the borrower must agree with the offer for his claims, since this could also be one additional insurer. Although the amendment was rejected on the committee. Because, in fact, we do not want the situation to arise if we remember that history with past banking recovery, when citizens without their own will invest in banks of 5 billion, we would really like it not to happen that the SID bank would become a bad bank and a haven for bad claims. Even though you say that this regulation, which is supposed to prevent all this, would propose a general debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, where we can discuss and clarify these matters on open issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u487	Thank you very much. First, I ask the Minister if he wants to answer the question because the procedural part has not yet been set. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u488	Thank you very much. I would only answer that this is a regulation, a respected Member of Parliament, of which you have discussed a lot in the previous question, even that it has been issued in some way too late in your opinion, although I think not and that the law already allows it. This is the regulation you mentioned yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u489	Thank you very much. Would you like a motion yet, fellow Member?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u490	Yes, I've already given it to myself that I want a general discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u491	Good. The National Assembly will then decide on your proposal to discuss the Minister's response on Wednesday, 27 May, as part of the vote. Ambassador Lidija Dijak Mirnik will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u492	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, you have violated Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure and it is horrifying how you imagine democracy and I will not discuss it. Also, Minister Restoration isn't here. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u493	Madam Members, the violation of the Rules of Procedure shall be decided by the President. Please ask a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u494	Minister Restoration is not here, although it is 22.10 and 10 seconds. I guess he's out of work now, so I'm sorry he's not here. No matter what, I'm 14. 5. sent a written question on the opening of fitness. I haven't got an answer for him yet. That's why I'm asking again today. As of 23 May, free sports education of children, youth, sports education of children, youth, targeted quality sport, quality and excellent sport, sport of disabled persons, sports recreation, sports of students and sports of older people are allowed, but sports in fitness are not allowed. This decree also does not include fitness centres and similar centres, such as wellnesses and swimming pools, although the advisory group under the guidance of Bojana Beović proposed the opening of fitness centres within the current package under similar conditions for physiotherapy and taking into account the NIPO guidelines. At my explicit question at the 11th meeting of the Education Committee, the Secretary of State explained that the restrictions on fitness which operate as a society still apply to other fitness establishments, which carry out their activities as a profitable activity, i.e. as an economic company, are still within the competence of the IGRT and they cannot decide. His answer, of course, raised a number of questions and ambiguities both between trainers and trainers and all trainers, which is very unusual if those gyms organised as societies can work, but those organised as espions or parts can't. Well, understand who can do it in this Slovenia. But then the Slovenian Fitness Initiative prepared guidelines or recommendations to be taken into account when relaunching sports-recreational centres following a model from abroad. They were also sent to the NIJ. That is why I call on the distinguished Minister here to open the fitness centres immediately, as has happened abroad, and that he should be very specific if, of course, he could answer here why he has not actually proposed this to the Government, because he could have already done so. It is simply not clear to me how it is possible that fitness centres are still closed, although everything else is allowed and although we all know that sports-recreation activities are actually highly designed and helpful in the psychophysical development of citizens' health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u495	Thank you very much. I'm just asking you, do you want an oral answer or a written one at the next meeting?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u496	I'd like a mouthful, and I hope by then it'll be over by the time we talk about it again.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u497	Okay, thank you very much. You will be given the opportunity to receive an oral response at the next meeting. Ambassador Jože Lenart will ask the Minister of Finance mags a question. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u498	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, Slovenia is late for legislative changes in the measurement of CO2 emissions in new vehicles. By the way, the government of Marjan Šarc put this law into discussion in January, but then we did not continue because of the resignation. The WLTP vehicle emission test protocol has been in force for more than a year and the country has not yet been able to adapt the DMV to the current CO2 emissions of real-time vehicles and still calculates the old NEDC cycle for the calculation of the tax, after which the emissions are much smaller since they were measured in laboratories and not in real-time road conditions. With the new year still in force, the new WLTP rules on emission measurement will soon make the buyer of the new car feel this strongly on his wallet, as the vehicles will become irritable. At the beginning of the year, there was a proposal for a new way of calculating the tax on motor vehicles in public debate, which would only take into account environmental standards. The solutions proposed would allow customers to be less attractive when they opt for green vehicles faster and easier, while diesels, which are much more polluting, would no longer be so attractive. The proposal would also abolish the tax on luxury vehicles so that the State could promise additional tax inflows. Dear Minister, given that we are already fairly late with the amendment of the legislation and that if the appearance of the new year is still subject to existing legislation, this would honestly strike you with the car owners' wallet: When do you plan to send the amendment to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act for consideration, and what will be its main solutions? Will the law contain such solutions to make it easier for buyers to purchase cleaner vehicles, such as electric, hybrid and natural gas vehicles? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u499	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u500	Thank you so much for saying that and thank you so much for asking. True, there was taxation on motor vehicles in the public debate. This public debate is now closed. The virus has arrived, so we have temporarily interrupted such legislation. We will certainly continue with this. We have, of course, an analysis of the entire tax system in the plan and, on the basis of this analysis, an appropriate solution. There is certainly a priority here to ensure the greatest possible possibility of purchasing with such or other measures those vehicles that contribute to a cleaner environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u501	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u502	Thanks for the answer. Nevertheless, I would like a clearer answer: When is the novelty expected, or will we follow these deadlines in view of the legislation that the European Union requires of us this year? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u503	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u504	I assume that if there are no major complications or disproportionateities in such legislation, such legislation will be drawn up in the second half of this year and, of course, it will be in the debate of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u505	Thank you very much. Okay, then we move on. She will lastly ask the oral question of Ambassador Violet Tomić, Minister of Culture Dr Vask Simoniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u506	Thank you. We have recently held a meeting of the Committee on Culture, where we have addressed the problems of journalism, small radio stations and television with a status of special importance. In the debate we touched on the importance of media plurality for democratic society. But there was no way we could get rid of the feeling that this time it was due to the abandonment of systemic measures in this area to attempt to subjugate or even abolish all critical media that did not exactly give the government praise. The current power is well aware of the value and importance of the media, since it has been building its own media network for years, and at every time in power, we are witnessing great interference with media freedom and ownership. It is precisely because of all the above that we are very concerned about attacks on the public institution of RTV. We are witnessing the discretion of the press, the calls for non-payment of membership, the dissemination of influence in the programming and control councils, the staff appetites and so on. The first Janša government made a grave attack on the freedom of the public RTV Slovenia, as it amended the RTV Act by allowing politics into it and thus became a public RTV spoil of every time the government wants to influence employment, programme and direction. This is unacceptable, because at the expense of politicians, the profession loses its space. The Content and Management Board, administrative control is in the hands of politics and not professional and civil society, as it should be for real independence. It is absurd that it is those who are reading politics at the same time, at the same time, who are taking care of the full control of the management of RTV Slovenia and their procedures and membership in the appointments to the Supervisory Council and the Programme Council. In short, we all want an independent and quality public RTV Slovenia. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Secretary: How will the Government depoliticize RTV Slovenia by this way of delegation and ensure greater impact of the civil sphere and the public in professional associations? What urgent proposals to resolve this problem is proposed by the Government? How and in what way will this burning problem be solved by this government? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u507	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u508	Thank you very much. The Member of Parliament has put forward a number of problems that are intended to threaten public RTV. She talked about the suspension of the government's systemic actions, attacks on RTV, discredits, the desire to pay no contributions, the humane appetites and such things. I personally don't know these things, and I don't know them, and maybe it would be good to hear specific problems or specific things about them, then of course I could answer something better. It is supposed to be a grave intervention in RTV and that Janšev's government put politics into public service when it passed a new law. That marriage was at the time that I was Minister of the First Government of Mr Janez Janš in 2004-2008. And this was the law that was made after all, as I would say, by the standards of the then democratic reflection on what public television is, because there were as many as 26 members of the European Union alike or such a law and there were no comments about it. So I don't know a law where, in fact, through the political broadest social bodies, such as Parliament, some members would be delegated to such a world, programme, if you want, or to the supervisory council. So I don't see any trouble in that. The autonomy of RTV Slovenia shows itself from several perspectives. Above all, the financial autonomy of Radiotelevision Slovenia is perfect, as it receives around 126 million euros a year. Then, out of this, you have EUR 126 million of total revenue, I can specify according to individual shares, so that in RTV Slovenia it is completely autonomous in this regard. Financial autonomy is therefore ensured and also for the functioning of Radiotelevision Slovenia itself is an extremely good financial substance, which ensures appropriate editorial and, of course, journalistic autonomy. So, of course, they have all the freeway here. I would even say that this path is so far away that it is no longer known that autonomy is also linked to responsibility and this responsibility under this autonomy, this self-confidence, which is expressed by Radiotelevision Slovenia through various programmes, in particular informational, is in fact completely lost and comes to the conclusion that, of course, it is the power to perceive and also proven on several sides that it is a complete, biased report of this radiotelevision and that the intensities of the law have not been followed in anything and taken into account in fact what the law provides for the programme council to be balanced over the past 10 years. In fact, this autonomy should also be expressed in this responsibility. This responsibility is, of course, also lost in the fact that a journalist can actually be any human being, even if he does not have an adequate education. And on RTV, we actually have a fan of having people from inappropriate education to people with PhDs, which is nothing bad of course, but in performing and expressing this has completely lost any criteria and there has been complete will. So this autonomy is expressed by the creation of one defence mechanism on RTV Slovenia, which in fact gave up its responsibility to work, while also citing autonomy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u509	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u510	Thank you. It's interesting, Minister, that you're talking about autonomy, confidence and biased reporting when you have a secretary of an information program that tweets under the pseudonyms and is a warm member of your SDS party. Nothing wrong with that, but the hate speech produced under the alias is unacceptable. You know, I worked for a long time on public RTV, and then you couldn't even run a children's show, let alone political, if you were a party member. Now it's desirable. And now they're sharing this loot and arguing with each other, and that's unacceptable. RTV also shows an irrational spending of money, and no government has yet fulfilled its commitments before you. And the contribution, the RTV contribution has been the same since 2012. By hiring all of the employees, digitising and revitalising the film archive, public RTV has, of course, weakened the material substance of the software content. The Government has also arranged for all budget consumers to raise salaries in the public sector, with the exception of RTV Slovenia, which had to resolve it with its own resources. And both authorities in the management of RTV Slovenia are always talking about the irrational spending of customer money, so that people would turn it away from the nationalist. Both deliberately mislead the public that RTV Slovenia had to resolve itself all the time within existing resources and without the assistance of the State. I'm really asking you: How do you plan to fill this gap and how do you plan to resolve this problem now in your mandate? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u511	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u512	Thank you very much. I don't know if the minister has to solve something that claims to be autonomy. This is where jurisdiction needs to be divided now. If you think the Ministry is just a jackal who gives no word to anyone, then of course there's no such thing. You're talking about a secretary on RTV who tweets something, listen, this is an argument that is weak compared to one colossal large organism. So I don't even know because I don't read or tweet. But such an example, marginal, to give in the context of a particular institution that has 2 000 200 employees and has more employees than one fifth of the municipalities in the whole country, is actually an extremely bad example. You have the Supervisory Board, the Programme Council, which has wanted to replace the director as of last year or before last year, something like that. So I don't know what I have to do with this, but you Members should actually settle this or appeal if you think this belongs to you in this area. However, I do not know how to solve this problem, in fact, if this institution is autonomous and concerned about the chaotic knowledge and the unprofessionalness of the journalists working there, by allowing people in fact different knowledge and different educational degrees to actually express their own opinions, I am not at all interested in their personal opinions as viewers. Professionalism is lacking in this house, a great professionalism which is, of course, clearly defined. I can't solve this myself, but the director of this institution has actually sent me a request to reimburse him for the costs of €70,000, approximately, for the infections he's spent in the last two months. If this is actually the way of communication, then I have nothing to communicate with such a person and to maintain his autonomy as he wants and as he thinks he is right. However, I think that sooner or later this television will have to be regulated by certain changes that will place this institution in the field, one would say, some democratic, normal, autonomous institution that respects the professionalism of work at the highest level, which is required of course by education and a certain distance offered by high professionalism, which can only be due to great knowledge, education and responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u513	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u514	Of course, I demand a debate on the Minister's response, because you're acting like you're sharing your money. “I will not give them, but now he asks me to give him some to disinfect.” I mean, I'm sorry, Minister, and you're leaving, the MP is still talking to you. Please don't act like one. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u515	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u516	In short, funding and autonomy do not go apart from each other. You finance independent public RTV because you are the Minister of Culture, who finances public institutions with public money, not with yours and not with a client. And let me give you an argument also RTV Slovenia is to buy technology and to provide adequate places to revitalize the film archive, which is truly professionally cared for. You are looking only at your interest, but the public interest is a film archive, and it has invested its regular programming resources and, of course, it has deplored the annual programming plan every year and, for that reason, it is, of course, in the future, a regular programme and the preservation of national wealth, which is extremely important and which should be a real concern for you as a minister, not that you are acting like an offended child and surrender and do not answer our questions. We must be aware that public RTV is our wealth, our common wealth. There is no way that we can allow the spoils of ambition to become by the power of some of the once-in-a-lifetime authorities, and these present ones really have much will to do with power. The only TV that can offer us a quality cultural and artistic program, as well as a regional programme and a children's programme and entertainment program, including information, drama and the like. That's what we're talking about, not whether it's yours or ours. And you say he cares about the unprofessionalness of journalists. You're just worried they're gonna talk nice about Janez Janša, that's all. But regional programs, agricultural programs, programs for disabled people, you care, for children – the children’s program has the most quality, it has always had it. This is all about the software, Minister Vasko Simoniti. And the task of our public RTV is by no means to compete with commercial and, above all, client televisions and to serve various left-right ideologies. Therefore, it is important to get the policy out of the Programme and Supervisory Council as soon as possible or, as we usually say, public RTV needs to be summed up because we know who made this law at the time. And that's why I'm interested, I really want to discuss how you're going to act so you don't completely destroy public RTV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-25-SDZ8-Redna-17.ana.u517	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 27 May 2020, in the framework of the votes. We have exhausted the list of question-makers. I thank the ministers and ministers for the answers given. I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue on Wednesday, 27 May 2020, when the National Assembly decides on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. I am also adjourning the 17th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night!
