ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Vojko Starović, Franc Kramar, Gregor Perič from 9 p.m. to 14 p.m., Victory Jelinčič Tribal, Dušan Šiško until 17 p.m., Dr. Franz Runch from 10:00 to 1:00. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is another defence proposal for a law amending the law on the protection of the elderly and the family benefits under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Council for consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi Council of the State. Ladyslav Rozich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u2	Good morning! Dear President, honourable Members, representatives of the Government! Allow me to make a brief presentation of the content of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, which was submitted by the State Council to the National Assembly in order to ensure a higher level of social security for those parents who work part-time for the protection of children. The fact is that the need for short-term employment has been increasing in Slovenia recently, as the latter, in conjunction with the uneven distribution of working time, allows employers to better manage the problem of permanent function between periods of increased and reduced labour. In doing so, more and more part-time working parents are being deployed to them and their children because of working needs, making it difficult for them to coordinate working and private time. While the Supreme Court has defined the right to a shorter working time due to parenthood as a measure of positive discrimination in terms of ensuring effective equal opportunities and equal treatment and as a way of following the child's benefits. Article 50 of the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits allows one parent to exercise the right to work with shorter working hours due to parenthood, where the period of exercise of that right depends on the number of children. In addition, it is stipulated that the employer shall grant the worker the right to pay under actual employment obligations and that the Republic of Slovenia shall ensure that the difference to full employment is ensured by paying social security contributions only to the proportionate part of the minimum wage. From the point of view of the height of the pension base, in accordance with the current arrangements, those parents who benefit from the right to a shorter working time due to parenthood are in a worse position than if they were working full-time. According to the proposal of the State Council, this situation could be significantly improved by proposing to pay social security contributions from the proportional part of the monthly gross salary of the employee and not from the minimum wage. This proposal, however, has since taken place at a meeting of the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, and has undergone some changes which are now being made in a nomo-technical and part-conclusion manner by the amendments tabled today. I would like to thank all those who have been constructively involved in the preparation of these amendments and who have in principle supported them at the Committee of the National Labour Council. Both coalition and opposition parliamentary groups are commended, but also, of course, the competent Ministry of Labour and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. I think that together we have taken an important step towards improving the situation of workers with shorter working hours and their families. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support the bill, of course, with the corresponding amendments submitted, which will make it easier to enforce the legal provisions in practice. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. I give the floor to President Eva Irgle to present the report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u4	Good morning! Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! At its 21st regular session, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered a proposal for a law amending the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, which was submitted to the National Council for consideration. A representative of the proposer, the Government, the Ministry of Labour and the Legal and Legislative Service, participated in the work of the Committee. In the introduction, a representative of the proposers briefly presented a proposal for a law. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical legal aspects. Her representative commented on the amendments submitted and said that the proposed regime was not clear and comprehensive and raised several issues related to the exercise of the right under Article 50 of the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its opinion presented by their representative at the meeting of the Committee, did not back the bill at that time. It considered that, despite other support for that proposal, the objective pursued by the proposal could only be achieved on the assumption that the amendment of the law was time-consuming with the financial capabilities of the State budget. Accordingly, in its opinion at the time, the Government considered that, given the current financial situation of the State budget, it was not appropriate to adopt the proposed amendments to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits. In the short debate, discussions were held on the basis for the calculation of contributions and the related aspect of justice and on the different treatment of parents in the payment of social security contributions which are employed for the purpose of child protection for a short period of time. The Committee also adopted its amendments and voted on all articles of the bill together and adopted them. A complementary proposal is also being prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u5	Thank you very much. To explain my opinion, I give the floor to Vlad Mateji Ribič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u6	Dear President! Dear Members and Members, and the rest of them present! Today we are in front of you with the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, which relates to the right of parents to a shorter working time and the payment of social security contributions due to parenthood. Slovenia has a very good balance between professional and family life in the system. The Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act is also a basis for easier coordination of parental and professional obligations and supports a more equitable sharing of parental rights and obligations. Here is a particularly important right of parents to work with shorter working hours. One parent who fosters and protects a child up to the age of 3 years, or at least two children, until the end of the 1st grade of the youngest child’s primary school, has the right to work with shorter working hours due to parenthood. In cases of exploitation of the right, the employer shall grant the worker the right to pay under the actual employment obligation. The Republic of Slovenia, however, provides it with up to the full obligation to pay social security contributions from the proportional part of the minimum wage, following the rates established by the law which sets the rates of social security contributions. Shorter working hours should cover at least half a week's work obligation. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the current regulation does not achieve its purpose. Most users of this right decide to exercise it because it is the only way to ensure adequate child protection or to fulfil their parental obligations in the best way possible. However, such a decision has negative consequences, which are reflected only in the exercise of the right to a pension. At the annual level, such a change in law would mean about €20 million in additional financial implications, assuming that the average of all the salaries of beneficiaries will be within the average wage. We also take into account that the use of justice would no longer be decided by the beneficiaries. In accordance with the proposed amendment, the employer would still guarantee the right to pay under actual work obligations, including the payment of social security contributions for work carried out in the short term. The Republic of Slovenia would also continue to ensure the payment of social security contributions to full employment, but not more than the proportional part of the minimum wage, but from the basis from which contributions for parental protection were calculated in 12 months but not less than the proportional part of the minimum wage. On the basis of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the proposed amendments to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u8	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished fellow Member and fellow Members! The resolution on family policy, which was adopted in 2018 with the title of All the Family-friendly society under the heading Parental Protection and Family Benefits, states, quote, "it is the task of the State to create appropriate conditions for decision-making for the family and to achieve a high quality of family life and to ensure the protection and protection of all family members, in particular the outflow. Part of the country does so by contributing to the cost of survival, by caring for and protecting children and by granting special rights due to parenthood. The purpose of these rights and direct financial support to families is to enable parents to have quality parenthood and children to have quality childhood, to provide families with the most appropriate living conditions, to facilitate coordination of family and professional obligations.« End of story. By adopting a family resolution, the country has also committed itself not only to maintaining family policy measures but also to strengthening them further. Respected and respected! The amendments to the Parental Protection Act and the family benefits proposed by the State Council are going in this direction: strengthening measures in the area of family policy to which the State has committed itself in that resolution. The applicant proposes that the State ensure that those parents who benefit from the right to a shorter working time due to the care or protection of the child are paid social security contributions to full employment from the proportionate part of their monthly gross salary, and that in the debate of the parental committee we have reached a final legal solution which provides that the basis for the calculation of the social contributions of the parents will be calculated in the same way as that of the basis for the maternity, paternity and parental compensation. Such a legal solution will improve the situation of parents who decide to exercise their right to a shorter working time because of the need to provide care or to protect their children, thus following the child's benefit and not their own desire for a shorter working time. At present, the State pays social contributions to full employment to parents exercising this right from the proportional part of the minimum wage. In this way, these parents are in an unequal position compared to other employees, as they receive lower salaries due to shorter working hours and consequently pay lower social contributions, thus risking working longer hours due to shorter retirement periods and thus having a lower pension. We are pleased that the Government changed its mind one day before considering the law on the parental committee because it initially opposed it because of the financial consequences. The government has committed itself to providing money for amending the law in the 2021 budget rebalancing. We hope that the money will be provided from the budgets of other ministries, such as the Ministry of Defence, but not through transfers within the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. We support the Social Democrats' proposal for amendments to the law because it strengthens family policy and, above all, will contribute to the easier coordination of family and professional obligations and thus contribute to the better quality of life of those children whose parents have not decided to exercise this right to a shorter working time due to the care or protection of the child to date due to the shortcomings of the current marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members and Members, the distinguished representative of the Government and the rest present! The amendment of the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits opens up several aspects of the coordination of work and family life, including the relationship between employers and employees who exercise the right to a shorter working time than full parenthood, and the different treatment of parents who are employed for shorter working hours for the purpose of protecting children in the payment of social security contributions. The right to a shorter working time than full parenthood is a measure that is one of positive discrimination measures. Its aim is to eliminate or at least reduce some of the adverse actual inequalities between people and social groups. In other words, it is a matter of preventing less favourable starting positions and creating equal opportunities for certain categories of persons, in our case parents who protect the child and need a legal framework within which they will not be discriminated against in the workplace and for them the use of this right will have no negative consequences. It is therefore right to open today a provision of the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, which in certain cases has achieved an almost opposite effect from what is expected, which is why some parents do not choose to exercise this right. The right to a shorter working time due to parenthood comes from parental insurance. It is an active measure of the country aimed at following the benefits of children, greater involvement of parents in the lives of children, which is reflected in positive effects on family life and better quality of life. In practice, however, some negative effects and experiences have also been shown, such as that parents who exercise their right are in a worse position than others. These parents receive a lower salary for their work, have a lower pension base and consequently a lower pension. Moreover, we must not close our eyes to the fact that in most cases women who benefit from this right are involved. The current arrangements are inadequate and absolutely necessary changes. For this reason, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, when considering the draft law on the Home Committee, we have proposed a supplement which has also been adopted and which provides the basis for the payment of the social security contribution as the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia to determine and calculate the same as for the calculation of the basis for the maternity, paternity and parental compensation, taking into account the upper and lower limits. Thus, the ceiling would be the same as for the father's and parent's compensation, which for the total absence from work would be 2.5 times the value of the average monthly salary with the harmonisations based on the law governing the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, we will support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Hello! A key element of social and civil progress is the elimination of inequalities, inequalities that arise either because of race, nationality, gender, economic situation, individual financial capacity or any other external factor. Equal opportunities for all for equal opportunities in work, social protection, access to health and care services, retirement and family planning are, in fact, an indicator of the extent to which society is truly solidarity. The proposed amendments to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, provided by the State Council, affect two key chapters of social solidarity: opportunities for decent retirement and family planning. The existing law on parental protection and family benefits provides for, inter alia, the possibility of working part-time to pay proportionally for a parent who fosters one or two children. In the event that an employee or a self-employed parent benefits from this right, the State shall cover social security contributions for the period when it does not work. For the basis, he takes the minimum wage and does not pay, which the parent receives from the title of his work. As a correction of this non-compliance, the State Council calls on parents exercising the right to a shorter working time under this Act to pay contributions from the proportional part of the salary they receive. This would raise the level of contributions paid to all, both in the State Council. Well, except for those parents who already receive minimum wage. The proposal to amend the law is thus controversial in terms of fairness. We see no reason why parents would receive various amounts of paid contributions for the protection and care of their children and, consequently, a different amount of high pensions, as this would constitute a fundamental injustice in the treatment of social work. It is not justified and it is not right that inequalities in the workplace are translated into inequalities in the exercise of parental care, care and the protection of children. In Levica we cannot agree to conditions that translate poverty due to poor work into poverty into child care or long-term poverty among pensioners. In the Left Group, we do not see a valid reason for introducing differences in the amounts of contributions paid by the State for parents who, if they worked, would receive salaries at different levels from the employer. We see no reason why parents would receive various amounts of paid contributions for the protection and care of their children and, consequently, a different amount of high pensions, as this would constitute a fundamental injustice in the treatment of social work. However, we agree with the applicant's basic objective of increasing the amount of social security contributions paid during the period of exercise of justice. That the minimum possible basis for the payment of contributions is established is due to unnecessary savings. This, in turn, discourages parents from exercising this right too often, rather than encouraging them to exercise their rights. In Levica, we propose that, in accordance with the aim of the applicant, children's care and protection at the time of the exercise of the right to reduced working time for all parents should be of higher and equal value. We therefore propose that the basis for the calculation and payment of contributions be taken into account for the average gross salary in the Republic of Slovenia for the previous year, which is determined by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. Since the lower rate of contribution also means a lower pension, because the system of accounting and eligibility for the different rates of remuneration provided for in the law is not granted and because we cannot allow inequality in the workplace to be translated into inequality in the exercise of parental care, care and the protection of the children of marriage without the adoption of our amendment. If our complement, which takes into account the average gross salary as a basis for the calculation and payment of contributions, follows, as such, the actual purpose of the proposer after increasing the amount of social security contributions paid, the law will also see our support as a small step in the right direction of fair and social society. In a society as rich as ours, there are no reasons not for singles and singles, those with the lowest incomes, those in poorly paid jobs, not to be left unattended and to be put on the path of parenthood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Tadeja Šuštar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. The National Council has sent a law on parental protection and family benefits to the legislative process to improve the situation of families who decide on part-time working for the protection of children. The current regulation provides that for parents who have opted for reduced working hours for the purpose of protecting children, the State pays social security contributions up to full employment from the proportional share of the minimum wage. As a result of such arrangements, these parents are in a worse position than others, as the state pays them a difference in contributions to the minimum wage and can consequently have a lower pension than they would have had if they worked full-time. Under the current law, child protection is generally decided by the parent who received a lower salary because he lost less in the calculation of his pension. The bill before us eliminates the differences between employees and parents who care for children, since it provides that the State will pay them social security contributions up to full employment from the proportional part of their average monthly gross salary. The bill contributes to better coordination of family and professional life, since the country with this parent not only gives charity but encourages them to raise and care for children. Family as the basic cell of society is important for the further development and future of the nation and therefore the country is obliged to promote the family environment. Youths need to be encouraged to make a family, and we can do so by showing them an upbuilding and just treatment in the family field. This change in the law will make it easier for parents to decide on part - time work and thus spend more time with their children. New Slovenia – since its establishment, we have been a party that gives great importance to families, family life, to young people who make up their families, and to life in general. We all want to ensure that parents are able to combine their professional and family lives to raise their children and care for their closest social respects. This proposal is a step towards the stated objective, and we will therefore be happy to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u16	Honourable President of the National Assembly, all present, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Working with shorter working hours because of the parenthood provided by our legislation is a great relief for many families. Often, it takes time for parents to get their family life back on track after their maternity leave. Thus, every parent has the opportunity to reduce his/her employment obligation by the maximum of half over a certain period of time and to preserve most of the full-time workers' rights. The salary of the employee who decides to work with reduced working hours shall be reduced in proportion and the country shall pay contributions for the missing working hours, as if the worker would receive a minimum wage. The very last is the subject of the novel, which is before us today. The proposer, by amending Article 50 of the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act, wants to reduce the difference in social security contributions paid to those parents who benefit from shorter working hours. The employer will continue to pay his parent's salary under actual work obligations, including the payment of social security contributions. The difference in the payment of contributions to full employment will also continue to be provided from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, but not more than the proportional part of the minimum wage, but from the basis which will be calculated in a manner such as the calculation of the basis for maternity, paternity and parental compensation, taking into account also the ceiling and the lower limit of payment. In this way, it is prevented from reducing the pension base and thus the amount of the pension for parents who benefit from the right to a shorter working time due to the difference in contributions paid. In the SAB party, we unconditionally support proposals that address the causes of unequal pay, which later appears to be reflected in a lower pension rate or in the case of lower unemployment. It is women who make the most of their choice to take advantage of this option that are entitled to this right. In the SAB Group, we therefore welcome the intention of the proposer to regulate this unequal situation, so we will support both the amendments and the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Jurij Lep will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Representative of the National Council, colleagues and colleagues! Demographic trends are not pleasant for us. The latter have been noted for years, but measures in this area appear to be somewhat too slow and possibly too ambitious. While there is no denying that family policy in the Republic of Slovenia is one of the best in Europe, it is also clear that fertility is still quite low in our country. Of course, there are several factors that influence nativity. It is not enough to ensure the social security of parenthood during the so-called maternity leave. Facts and actions in the labour market and the education and education system are also indispensable. There is undoubtedly a correlation between the set of family policy measures and the financial background of those measures. It is only in this millennium that we have received payment of contributions in the event of a reduced working time due to parenthood when the Parental Protection and Family Benefit Act was passed. Since 2002, the latter has provided the parent who decides to work with shorter working hours with the payment of social security contributions by the State. The trend of increasing the beneficiaries of this measure is increasing from year to year. Today, about 15,000 people are in charge of a shorter working time, almost three times more than 12 years ago, but still the vast majority of these mothers or women. The payment of contributions for the period of absence from the work of the beneficiary shall be accounted for from the minimum wage. At first glance, the financial deprivation of parents who decide on this form of work for the purpose of harmonising their professional and family life is not, since they are consciously deciding on a lower family budget. As the bill-maker says, it is not possible to overlook the fact that all these employees are in a worse position because of potentially lower pensions, as the basis from which contributions to pension and disability insurance are paid is significantly lower than it could otherwise be. In this way, state councillors propose to increase the contribution of the calculation of social contributions from the minimum wage to the proportional share of the actual average wage of the employee. In the Desus Group, we agree with the proposal of the State Council. In addition, taking into account another aspect of a woman’s role in the family, because they have double or even more jobs, home care and children are often at home in addition to regular paid employment, and sometimes care for an elderly family member. Last but not least, there is a gender gap in wages. So the present proposal, including the amendments tabled by Members and Members of the coalition, is completely variable and welcome for Desus. So we will be happy to support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Ivanusha, I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u20	Have a good day to all present. Mr President, you've made your own improvements, so there's no problem. Recently, we have observed that the need for short-term employment is increasing also due to the coronavirus. The right to work with shorter working hours due to parenthood is a special, independent right that has both advantages and disadvantages. For children to develop there by the age of six, it is certainly best to be one of the parents, usually a mother, as much as possible with a child. The latter has the greatest benefit, while at the same time having a positive impact on family life in general and on better quality of life. At today's rapid pace of life, it is very difficult to coordinate family and professional obligations, as there is certainly a need for good organisation of work and a timetable for the day. One of the parents who chooses to work with shorter working hours must take a lease in order to get a lower salary on the pay. This will eventually affect the lower pension. On the one hand, we have shorter working hours on the scale, spending time with the child, and on the other hand full working hours with more money and higher retirement on the other hand. The proposed amendment of the Law of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the problems posed by the employees of the parents could be improved. The State is intended to ensure that those who work part-time pay social security contributions to full employment from the proportionate part of the basis referred to in Article 43 and Article 46(1), but not less than the proportional part of the minimum wage. It may seem unfair to someone, especially to those who might benefit from justice, but it is not. On the other hand, everyone on average would work with shorter working hours and possibly because of personal preferences instead of protecting children. Data for 2019 that the right to a shorter working time has benefited 14 thousand 780 parents does not tell us much, would mean percentages or how many parents could benefit from this right. In other Member States of the European Union, we can see that parents work with shorter working hours to different ages of children. More than 36 million at annual level are expected to go out of the state budget, which represents a major public financial deficit. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that, given the current financial situation of the State's indebtedness, it is not appropriate to adopt the substantively well-proposed amendments to the law, which we agree with in the Slovenian National Party. All of this would also entail additional costs for the purpose of establishing appropriate support in the information system. It is relevant for our country to replace the public financial deficit after the coronary crisis and to restore the balance of public finances from which it has for a period of time deviated from the covid-19 virus. We do not support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mag. Carmen Furman will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear colleagues! The proposal to amend the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, which we are considering today, removes inappropriate and unfair legislation in the event that working parents benefit from the right provided for in Article 50 of this Law and thus enforce the right to work with reduced working hours in order to protect their child. According to existing legislation, these workers are not benefiting from the right to work with reduced working hours due to the protection of children as regards the payment of social security contributions paid in this case by the State in an unequal situation. Article 50 of the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits currently in force allows workers to exercise the right to work with reduced working hours due to parenthood of one of the parents who cares and protects the child, with the use of part-time work dependent on the number of children. In addition, it is stipulated that the employer shall grant the worker the right to pay under the actual employment obligation and that the Republic of Slovenia shall, in contrast to the full employment obligation, provide him with the payment of social security contributions to the proportional part of the minimum wage. The latter means that contributions are currently paid only from the proportional part of the minimum wage, and not from the actual gross wage of the worker who benefits from this right, which, of course, may have a negative impact on the pension base of the worker, since this can only be lower than the worker would have if he worked full-time. Thus, in terms of the height of the pension base, those parents who benefit from the right to work for a shorter working time are in a worse position than if they were working full-time. In the light of the above, the amendment proposes that the State continue to pay part of the contributions to parents who are employed for shorter working hours due to parenthood, but not more than the proportional part of the minimum wage, but that the calculation of the base for payment of the contributions should be carried out in the same way as the calculation of the base for the mother, parent and father's compensation, taking into account the upper and lower limits. The proposed amendment therefore aligns the amount of paid contributions to social security for workers who are employed for shorter working hours to exercise the right to shorter working hours in order to protect their child with those who do not benefit from these rights and thus eliminates the unequal situation of workers who are employed for shorter working hours. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware and always advocate the great role and importance of the family as the primary environment, which is of paramount importance for the healthy development of our children. In order to ensure the latter too, appropriate coordination of the professional and family life of parents is needed today, which must also make the legislation in force possible. We are therefore of the opinion in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this is a problem that certainly requires the right solutions, so we also support the amendment of the legislation as proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Andrea Zabret will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues and others invited! In Slovenia, an average of 14 000 467 parents per month benefit from the right to work with shorter working hours due to parenthood. This right is followed by children’s benefits, increased involvement of parents in the lives of children, easier reconciliation of work and family life, and so on. Shorter working hours due to parenthood are considered by the Supreme Court to be a positive measure of discrimination and belongs to one of the parents who nurtures and protects the child. Such a worker receives a salary under actual employment obligations and the State provides him with a social security contribution up to full liability, but on the basis of a minimum wage under the Minimum Wages Act. In the Marjan Šarca Group of Members, we agree with the bill's proposal that workers who work part-time due to parenthood are placed in a worse position than their employees who work full-time. The payment of social security contributions up to full liability on the basis of the minimum wage has a negative impact on the pension base of a short-term employee and consequently on his lower pension. With the amendment of the law, we will eliminate such inequality. Following the amendment adopted at the meeting of the Committee, the same basis as for the father or parental compensation will be taken into account as the basis for the calculation and payment of contributions, taking into account the upper and lower limits. The new regime will apply on 1 January 2021. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we initially tended to have the law applied as soon as possible, but we supported the addition of the coalition, which proposed a later application of the new regime, as we are aware that a certain period of time is needed for the transition to a new regime, we are also aware of the current financial situation in our country. We are operating in the List of Marjan Šarca and will continue to act as a responsible and constructive opposition party. Finally, during the time of the government of Marjana Sarca, we have taken a number of measures in the area of family policy, extended the paternity leave at the birth of twins or more live births, introduced parental leave also for foster parents, provided minimum maternity leave for all births. We also raised a parental allowance for parents who are not entitled to a parental, fatherly, or parental allowance. This is the most common place for a student family. We have eliminated the injustices that have been done with regard to paying child care allowances to blind and visually impaired children. Our government also eliminated the family policy austerity measures, with 1. 1. 2021 will also be a higher amount of assistance when the child is born. In the Charter of Marjan Šarc, we have been working since the beginning of our mandate to eliminate injustices and improve the situation of disadvantaged groups, which is why we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u25	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. 23 9. 2020. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Ambassadors of the Left Group and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. I'm going through the list. Applications for the debate shall be made. The first one has the word of a colleague of Mojca the Boxer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. The new Law on Parental Protection and Family Receipts is certainly to be supported. The novelty allows for more equitable regulation, while at the same time promoting family politics and fertility, which is essential. The demographic situation in Slovenia is such that it has to be encouraged. But this law and some other solutions that we have already heard about today are only the beginning of a more successful demographic policy. I think that in the future we should also think about reintroducing the payment of the country for the second and third children in kindergarten, which I believe this government will also implement. When the financial situation permits, however, it would be good to consider fully free inclusion of children in kindergarten and free nutrition for students and students. At the same time, it would be good to consider other tax incentives for large families and subsidisation of residential rentals for families with three or more children. Over the past days, we have discussed the budget rebalancing, and next year's budget debate will begin. It will be of no use to plan the construction of new kindergartens, new schools, new colleges, new institutes when we do not have children to enter these institutions. I therefore welcome this law, which must be the first step or one of the first to lead to a successful family policy. The demographic problem of Slovenia is one of the most difficult and challenging challenges of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u28	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! In Slovenia we face insurmountable numbers when we talk about poverty in particular. And here are the most affected singles and singles, the most affected pensioners and pensioners. And what's most painful – I think the number is now up to 280,000 people who live below the poverty threshold, 40,000 is a child. About how they live and how they fight together with their families, you can read or listen to each week in aid shows and other witnessing programs. Therefore, our task as a society that is supposed to be or should be based on solidarity is to create, as politicians, circumstances in which this poverty is eradicated, destroyed and become a matter of some past, of another time. The proposal to change the law that is before us affects poverty at two levels, poverty among pensioners, social inequality between pensioners and those in the family concerning children. Our pension system is not a business, it's a solidarity system. We understand it a lot more than you give, to have more, but basically the pension system must function in a way, now I give that others, that others who have already contributed, live carefreely, and solidarity I contribute now that, at the time when I will be in their place, society will contribute, individuals in society will contribute and my age will be taken care of. The truth is a little different. The more you contribute, the greater your pension awaits you, the higher your salary, the better your job, the higher your pension awaits you, some moment of social inequality that is valid to eliminate and that our proposed amendment actually eliminates. The other thing is, parenthood is not a job, parenthood is a mission, parenthood is something that a person lives on, whether an MP or a member of the National Assembly or a worker working in Lidl on a minimum wage or even less. They're both parents. They're not one more mom. They're not one more dad. Even deepening inequality from this title is, of course, a bad idea. The proposal before us cannot say that it is bad, but it is groundless in this solidarity sense. The question arises why even from this solidarity system, which takes the minimum wage for the assessment of contributions, we are moving on to this insurance company, which deepens the inequality in the long term, so more than you have now, you will have more in the future. Since the fact is that most of the contributions paid will be raised, it is not up to those who are already living in poverty or receiving minimum income to make use of it. We therefore find this proposal to be unfair in some way, because the country, to say the least, translates this inequality between the employer and the worker now also between the country and the recipient, the citizen. Our amendment removes this disharmony. He says that we do not take the minimum wage as is now the basis for the assessment of contributions, nor do we take the proposed monthly gross salary, as proposed by the proposer, but rather, in solidarity, measure the average gross monthly salary in the Republic of Slovenia, as the amendment itself says in Article 1. It is not fair for inequality or poverty to be passed on from the subject of employment or inequality in the workplace to the age or care of the family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? Comrade Masha Kociper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u30	Thank you very much. We at the SAB party will support this novel. We support all the good suggestions that this government will come with. That was never the question. Of course, as an opposition Member, I wonder where the logic of this government's action is, as we know, preparing someone, let's be clear, it's not debarcation, it's just tax reform, it's some tax reform, where there's going to be some redundancies that's going to make a hole in the budget. On the other hand, laws, such as those which at the same time recharge the cash register, are adopted. Sometimes I get the feeling that some people think that we're in Norway and that oil is coming out of the ground at every step and that we have money unlimited. Yes, of course we would like a free kindergarten for the second and third children or free admission of everyone into kindergarten. Great. Maybe they even have it in Norway. And I'm wondering why someone who's in a good situation who doesn't have a problem paying for kindergarten has to have a free daycare. And why, according to some logic, only another child, a third child, is rewarded with some responsibility, a parenthood, a decision for a child when you can provide him with survival. I am absolutely aware of demographic trends, but I do not agree with this narrow view of the coalition that our birth rate will increase if kindergarten is free of charge for the second and third children. In fact, because our kindergartens are already quite full and because all statistics show that we have the inclusion of children in kindergartens above average in relation to the European Union. The fact that everything is free for everything and so on, of course it's all nice and we're all in, it's the easiest to confirm. But on the one hand, you take it and on the other hand, you put it out of the same bag. And that's not understandable to me. If I go back to demographic politics for a moment. For us who are more in liberal parties, it is that this is reduced only to that, if you have “you will have a free kindergarten for the child, second, third, fifth”, quite insulting. A decision for a child is one important decision, one of the most important decisions in life, and this decision brings about a lot of things. And we liberals, if I say so, see in liberal parties that society as a whole needs to be improved, to solve housing problems for the whole, to eradicate poverty and so on. But not to give some leave there and here, because now we have a coalition that magnifies fertility. There are few parents who will choose an extra child because he will have a free day care, believe me. Because an extra child is a huge expense outside of this kindergarten. Being so easy to give, great, I'm happy. Just tell me where you're gonna get all this. We will support all such proposals, and the responsibility is yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Colleague Boxer, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Thank you for the debate, dear colleague. I understand your concerns. However, I would like to tell you that a free kindergarten for the second and third children was a successful measure that helped, it was introduced in 2008, see demographic data, in 2009, 2010 and 2011 the regularity rose sharply. Today you have full primary schools, and soon there will be secondary schools, precisely because of this action. Then the birth rate fell again, which is understandable because of the crisis. Unfortunately, Zuif also reduced this measure. I wish I could get a new one. At the same time, I would also like to tell you that free kindergarten for the richer means only demographic policy, not some addition of money to the rich, promoting this demographic policy. You need to know that those who will be exempt from this payment for kindergarten will actually invest their remaining money in something else and will increase in this way VAT. In short, it's about measures of demographic policy. As for free lunch, school meals for everyone, the same principle applies, but at the same time let me say that today, because we are running a subsidised school lunch policy, we are paying endlessly a lot of money for various applications to correct applications. People work both at the offices, at ministries and at schools to record it. I think that by stopping this way and having a free lunch, everyone in school would also significantly reduce bureaucracy. There is absolutely no need for so much administration, people to be employed for creative work, but not for really hand-to-hand putting different keys on the computer, so that these subsidies can be paid. It's about demographic policy, it's about promotion, it's about reason. And there's definitely a big problem with demographics in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I'm going through the list. Applications are under way. Andrei Reich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to respond to the provost's words. Of course, I agree that social policy or demographic policy is an issue that needs to be addressed more broadly. However, in the light of what you have said, complicated administrative procedures in primary schools, I would also suggest that it would be right for the Ministry of Finance to monitor the payment of social transfers. In order for all transfers to be consolidated and paid through a common payee, not through different ministries. In this way, we could have a joint review of what anyone gets if they were a single payer. This is in fact also an appeal to the Ministry of Finance to regulate this system, to make it transparent and to end up getting a list of what it has received from the State and what it has paid. Now it is in the tax forecast that I think three or four pages of some kind of legal ballast, a legal instruction that actually says nothing and there is no speech about the content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is Masha Kociper. Reploco has a colleague, The Boxer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your good ideas. But I have to tell you, in a way, what you said already exists. The Law on the regulation of rights from public funds regulates these matters from one place, social work centres assign these rights and bureaucracy, which I spoke about earlier, also includes an application for lunch. You need to know that in this application it is so sophisticated that whenever anyone receives any other right, it is linked to the app about lunch and is then known at the level of this subsidy. This is a very complex system in which all those who grant rights enter, and in the end it should be transparent and then the rights should be balanced. That's how it is. Nevertheless, it seems to me that the system is really very complicated and requires a lot of red tape and a lot of employment in this way. As I said, people should be employed creatively, not for the introduction of such numerical data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u37	Dear colleagues, I propose that we use the replica only if we have not been properly understood. We have plenty of time to report to the debate. My colleague Masha Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u38	I like it when we have a respectful substantive debate in this house, which then encourages me to say something else. I can also understand the efforts of certain colleagues from the coalition, Mrs Škrinjar, who is even familiar with this area, and I can also understand her point of view. The important difference between her and my view is that the lady believes – I am sure she believes – that the birth rate rose in 2009 and 2010 because the government of Janez Janša introduced a free kindergarten. I just don't believe it. This is this fundamental difference between us, what we think are measures that can help increase fertility. But I don't want to discuss individual cases with anyone. I also wanted to say that whoever wanted to understood my point in the previous debate. As long as we have poor pensioners who barely survive, people who have worked for 40 years are below the poverty threshold, people like single mothers who cannot survive one or two of their children full-time can't survive, given that our bag is limited, that we give those who have free kindergartens, free meals, free schooling. I'm talking to myself with this, I'm probably in that category that's always been able to pay for the daycare, can pay for lunch and so on. But if, as it is said, the funds are unlimited, okay, while they are not, it is a shame that such unnecessary expenditure is consumed in this small amount of money. Because whatever the small money looks like, free lunch for everyone who's cool to understand each other, I stress once again, we support it, we've always supported it in the SAB. But now that we continue, it is true for everyone, it is always necessary to consider whether we really want to give all people the same rights, but if some people are able to afford to pay something. What I would have wanted was for this government or every government, even when we had a government, I had repeatedly warned about this, but it was that the CSD system would be overwinded and that CSDs would again become what I understand they should be. Some service that detects and detects who in society is the one who really needs help. In order for CSDs to do what I imagine they should do in the field, but not, as Mrs Skrinjar says, fill out some forms in the offices and go to bureaucrats. We could also satisfy all the needs with this limited little thing that we have if we really only get the money that they need. Social transfers of different kinds, not just what we are talking about today. This, of course, is a slightly broader debate. But we know there's a lot of abuse. And these abuses disturb me extremely. Because if I keep trying for the social state and for the high level of rights and for the protection of the most vulnerable, then I am extremely disturbed by the fact that my efforts and the efforts of this country are being abused by so many people. Let's not go back to kindergarten and those who come with Mercedes and have free kindergartens and so on. It's an old debate. However, the principle warning is, in everything you do, remember that this bag is limited, that you will empty it with tax reform and that simply plus and minus will not work out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! To begin with, to make it clear to those who are listening to us, I would like to say that we are not talking today about a law that would change the free protection of children in kindergarten and so on, but I understand that Members and Members are talking more broadly, but for the sake of clarity, I must point out that we are talking about a minor amendment to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits proposed by the State Council. It is an amendment to Article 50 of this Law. We are talking only about the amount of contributions paid, i.e. the amount of contributions paid by the State for all those parents, mothers or fathers who are at home for the protection of the child and who make working hours shorter than full time. Of course, there is a difference between how many children you have, if one, then they can enforce it until the third year of age, if two or more, then by the end of the first grade of primary school. Otherwise, we also received some letters from parents who would like to change it, but I must say that I also agree that it is in fact positive discrimination and desire. It encourages those who have more children to enjoy greater benefits, so that we have not gone into these changes here. It is, however, a change in the level of payment of these contributions. So far, all parents, regardless of their salary, have been paid from a minimum wage. The Council of State has given the initiative, and then additional amendments have been adopted on the parental committee, so that in the future, if it is, and I believe that the law will be adopted, all parents who will apply shorter working hours will then be paid from their actual base for the short time they do not work when they are at home, protecting the child. This is in the same way as the mother’s, father’s, or, according to the household, maternity allowance. So that's the whole change. I will also support the proposal of the coalition, which speaks of a transitional period. This is true of those parents who are already applying it, who have an active right to be recalculated by social work centres on a new basis, so that they will change from their salary and not their minimum wage. I will, of course, support the marriage, along with the coalition's amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Carmen Furman.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. I myself will first refer to the content of the discussion of the predecessor, colleague Žnidarič. In view of the Member's previous debate, the essence of what is being dealt with today has been somewhat blurred. We are not talking about free kindergartens, lunches, although I personally believe that this was a good measure. Today we are talking only about a minor amendment of the Parental Protection Act, because, in essence, at least that is what we consider in the Slovenian Democratic Party, the current regime is inadequate and unfair, as regards the payment of social security contributions. If we allowed our parents, and all parents, to exercise the right to work with shorter working hours, then we feel that it certainly was not the purpose of such a law or the exercise of that right to later be punished by those parents who benefit from that right with a possible lower pension base. Today this correction is being corrected and it is not a measure of any greater fertility or whatever the substantive debate of individual Members was earlier, but it is the purpose of harmonising professional and family life and the minor correction of the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u43	Thank you very much. My colleague Janez Moskritch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. I also applied myself mainly because the first set of debaters came from the theme of this agenda item. I cannot agree with my colleague from the SAB Group that there is a cost for a child in Slovenia. Thank God, there is no cost for children in Slovenia. And that's exactly what this marriage is about. For a four-hour half-time, we know that it is usually decided by one of the parents who has a smaller salary, because he calculated that by actually caring at home for children he can contribute more to the end of his work than that difference to the minimum wage. I therefore believe that this amendment of the law will not cost our state treasury a great deal, but it will bring something good to those parents who are in the ranks of average wages and who were now, if they wanted or needed to use it, somehow injured. So we take care of all layers, although this is not the correct expression of the layer, but we know that wages are indeed within a large range in the Republic of Slovenia. I therefore support this amendment and this amendment of the coalition, just one transitional period, so that everyone who benefits from it will also be aware of these rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the representative of the Council of State, Mr Ladislav Rozic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u46	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your word. In order not to take too much time, I would just like to thank myself once again for the constructive attitude of upgrading the legislation submitted on behalf of the State Council and also on behalf of the parents who have given the initiative. On the basis of coordination with the competent ministry and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, I would like to express my thanks for the amendment of the coalition groups tabled to Article 1, which, by the way, is merely a nomological improvement already adopted on the parent committee by the amendment to Article 1 of the law, as well as for the amendment governing the previous provisions of the legal novelty. I am pleased that, despite the Government's initial concerns about the financial implications of the draft law at the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons meeting, on the basis of the engagement of virtually all parliamentary groups, there has been agreement that the intervention in legal matter is meaningful and that the proposal has been given a green light to deal with at the plenary of the National Assembly. As a candidate, the Council of State agrees to regulate the legislative provisions in a way that, according to the assessment of the competent national authorities, will also be feasible in practice and will not create any new inequalities between employees with shorter working hours. I note that the proposed amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups for a new address, a transitional provision for the new Article 1a of the legislative novel will also make a significant contribution to the latter, given that it will allow for automaticism in the budget of contributions for those persons who are already working shorter hours before this bill is put into effect, in order to align them with those newly eligible for that right. It is crucial to stress that the main objective of the proposed legislative change is to ensure a better financial and social situation for those working parents who, in order to protect children, choose to exercise the right to a shorter working time. Once again, thank you all for the energy invested, time and constructive effort. Thank you for the statement given, the Presidents, and all Members and Members for their express support for the proposal put forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus and the amendment of the Levica Group of Members for a new title and a new Article 1.a. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on the supplementaryity of the law on the death and disability insurance in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Tomaž Lisc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u48	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, everyone's welcome! We have introduced the law into the Parliamentary procedure in the SDS Group on 25 September 2019, and obviously one day before the anniversary of one year, we will have a successful conclusion or adoption of this law in the National Assembly. It's about things that are absolutely necessary for the first time, and, secondly, they have a very long beard. We are changing the injustices caused by the law on pension and disability insurance. Since 1983, some injustices have not been rectified either by the 2000 PIZ or the 2012 PIZ. But the content, a little later, has been pointed out for a long time by the people who have addressed the Constitutional Court, many times the Ombudsman has warned about the content. And we also have a civil initiative that warned that certain solutions in the existing law on pension and disability insurance are not fair. Part of these injustices were corrected in 2017 by the so-called Han Law. Today, two more injustices are being corrected in good faith. The first point is that beneficiaries who have purchased pensions under the rules in force are in an unequal situation with those who have been recognised as pensionable without a purchase. What are we talking about? We're talking about people in good faith buying up peasants, colleges and military years, and then it didn't fit into their pension base. Another thing that he has, as it were, had a beard since 1983, is that former farmers were divided into two groups. So-called joint farmers who have been secured for a wider range of rights and other farmers who have been secured for a narrower range of rights. But the fact is, they both paid the same pension base, and they have different pensions. And that's what we're fixing today. However, let me once again apologize to all those who have been wronged by the ZPIZ in 2012 from this city as those who have been wronged by the 2012 PPIZ, which in fact stems from the 2000 PPIZ. On this occasion, I would like to thank, in the SDS Group of Members and also personally, the civil initiative for the completion of the years, which has been very fruitful in helping to resolve the finalisation of the study, military and peasant years. Thanks also to the Slovenian Chamber of Agriculture and Economy, which pointed out the issue of the collection of agricultural years, and thanks also to the Law-Legal Service of the National Assembly, which helped to bring the law to life in practical work and, last but not least, to current Minister Janez Cigler King with a team which, unlike the previous government, admitted that it was necessary to apologize for the wrongs and then to correct the injustices. It is a small law that makes two important decisions, or changes, that go into a system of redressing injustices that have been too great in history. However, all those interested in this law may recall that when they examine what this law specifically brings, they have also looked at the transitional and final provisions. For all those who have bought years, the Pension and Disability Insurance Office will send a new income allowance within six months to these insured persons themselves, and all those farmers who have been insured for a higher level of entitlements will be able to claim, through the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, that these injustices will be rectified, which means a higher pension for both groups. In short, a short marriage and a great correction of the wrongs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. I give the floor to President Eva Irgle to present the report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u50	Hello again! At its 17th and 21st meetings, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the draft law on the supplementaryity of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance as a parent working body. The representative of the applicants briefly presented a proposal for a law, a representative of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons said that the Commission supported the proposal. It also discussed the impact of each partial right on the sustainability of the pension system, which it has already pointed out to the PIZ, as well as the fact that the existing system is fundamentally solidarity-oriented and payments to it and rights acquired, as regards certain segments of the insured, are still not being followed. The Commission notes, however, that the issue of the completion of the pension age, which touches on the proposal for a law, is complex and has been ongoing for many years. Some invited representatives welcomed the bill and wanted it to receive sufficient support. The representative of ZDUS and ZDUS stressed that they would otherwise not be inclined to partial solutions. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects and made specific comments to the article. It also drew attention to two issues: the issue of compliance of the proposal with the SPIZ-2 with the general principle of equality and the issue of compliance with the constitutional fiscal rule. The Government, in its opinion of 7. 11. 2019, presented by their representative at the 17th meeting of the Committee, did not support the proposal. In the opinion of the Government of 1. 9. However, 2020 supported the proposal. While noting that the proposed amendment was a partial measure to be followed by the adoption of other measures to ensure the sustainability of the pension system. The Government is of the opinion that the negotiating group for the consideration of amendments and the addition of ZPIZ-2 should continue its activities to prepare comprehensive further legal changes in pension and disability insurance in the Republic of Slovenia, in which the social partners were also united during the negotiation process to prepare the latest amendments to pension and disability legislation. With the support of the amendment of the law, the government follows the fundamental principles of pension and disability insurance, whereby the rights to reflect the contributions paid by the insured person must be reflected. The Committee further supported the bill's proposal, as the debaters felt it was right to correct and eliminate injustices. They agreed that the proposed amendment was a partial measure to be followed by measures to ensure the sustainability of the pension system. The Committee also adopted its amendment and voted on all articles of the bill together and adopted them. A complementary proposal is in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Government will be explained by Mrs Mateja Ribič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We have before us a proposal for a law governing an exemption from the other arrangement of the accumulated period after the ZPIZ-2 and an equalisation of the rights of former agricultural insurers who in the past have paid contributions in the amount of insurance for the full range of rights and who have only been granted insurance for a narrower scope of rights. The proposed arrangement also modifies the separation between the non-compensation period and the retirement period. Thus, all periods when insured persons have been included in compulsory insurance up to 1. 1. In 2013, regardless of whether it was compulsory insurance, voluntary insurance or purchase, it considered it to be a non-compensated retirement period which allows an individual to retire without having to have a baby. The proposed regime also ensures full rights for farmers who, under the legislation in force at that time, have only been allowed to be included in compulsory insurance for a greater scope of rights, even though they have paid contributions at a level which would otherwise grant them the right to a wider scope of rights, is said to be integrated farmers. The government has examined the allegations and justifications of the bill's proponents and notes that the content of the bill is supported by the fact that the pension and disability system in the Republic of Slovenia is a social insurance scheme, which means that the rights recognised by insurance are linked to pre-insurance and contributions. In this context, however, it is essential to note that the proposed amendment to the law on partial action should be followed by the adoption of other measures to ensure the sustainability of the pension system. In particular, we would like to point out that the special negotiating group set up to address the amendments and to complement the ZPIZ-2 should continue its activities to prepare comprehensive further legal changes in pension and disability insurance in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! Dear Secretary of State and others present! Today we are considering a novelty of the law on pension and disability insurance, which is in fact not new or is a constant in parliamentary decision-making over the last few years. In the past mandate, we have dealt with amendments to pension legislation with similar material several times, and for the second time in this mandate. In 2017, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, when dealing with the novel, by which we regulated the period of voluntary inclusion in pension and disability insurance, in determining the fulfilment of the conditions for old-age pensions under the conditions of 60 years and 40 years of non-compulsive retirement before 2013, we drew attention to the open issues that would arise in the future, and that we did not solve the situation of all insured persons who had been harmed by the adoption of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in 2012 in any way. The novel, which we are considering this time, is essentially a logical continuation of a number of attempts to correct the arrangements for voluntary inclusion in compulsory insurance, as was the case prior to the adoption of the pension law in 2012, or an attempt to place the insured concerned in the regime we have today. After the adoption of today's amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, we can also ask ourselves whether the adoption of the new pension law in 2012 was a reform. Above all, it is necessary to know, as has already been expressed at the consideration of the proposed amendments on the parent committee, that we need sustainable changes to the pension law in the future, so that we can easily implement the changes that we are considering today. In addition to the arrangement of the exemption from the accumulated period after ZPIZ-2 in such a way that this accumulated period before 31. 12. 2012 treats the same as the non-acquisition pension period and as the period of voluntary insurance under the condition of payment of contributions, it is also proposed that the scope of the rights of former agricultural insurers be equalised according to the amount of contributions paid. However, to the insured persons who have actually paid contributions under the 1983 pension law in the amount of contributions to the wider scope of the rights, they have been recognised as being insured for a wider scope of the rights. In some ways today it is about eliminating injustices and closing certain issues, but not only compared to the ZPIZ-2, which was adopted at the end of 2012, but also in relation to the novel ZPIZ-2E 2017. Finally, the proposed amendment, which is before us today, is also about ensuring social security for certain groups of insurers, so we will support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party's proposal for a law in the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Left Messenger Group, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear comrades! Today you have the opportunity to eliminate one of the types of injustices that have occurred in the area of pension legislation in the past. The pension reform of ZPIZ-2, as you know quickly, introduced, among other things, the so-called uncompensated retirement age. Thus, the conditions for an old pension have practically deteriorated overnight, and a large number of people have simply fallen out. Although they had a retirement age, suddenly they did not have a new pension without a pension. The consequences were retirements with persistent young people or subsequent retirement. The victims of the SPIZ-2 reform were also insured who were not included in the original amendment of the law that we are deciding on today. It is those who have been voluntarily involved in pension and disability insurance against PPIZ-2 and have also paid contributions after the implementation of PPIZ-2. According to the new law, namely STIZ-2, voluntary inclusion in compulsory pension insurance was no longer counted in the retirement period without the purchase. It was those who were after 1. 1. 2013 re-registered for voluntary compulsory insurance, notified. Watch out! However, this was not known by those who were included in voluntary insurance prior to the amendment of the legislation and continued to pay contributions even in 2013, without knowing that they could no longer count on normal retirement as usual. Even more horrendous is the fact that in most cases the most vulnerable members of society, the unemployed, for example, lost their jobs during the recession, during the great pardons. Some of these people have already been taken care of by the new PIZ-2E, which has entered into force 1. 1. 2018, these are the ones that were included in the insurance before 1. 1. 2013 Period to 1. 1. 2013 is thus considered to be voluntary inclusion in the pension benefit without the purchase. But never did this injustice go to those who did not know how to pay their contributions after 1. 1. 2013 This is the injustice we have today to undo. We have tabled an amendment in Levica, which would also allow those who have remained in post-1 insurance. 1. In 2013, but only until the first termination of the insurance, the period was counted as a retirement period without a sum. At the same time, we propose that the injustice be set aside for those of the group who have already retired by giving them a new pension. In Levica today, we appeal to the social sense of all Members of Parliament and hope that this injustice will be brought to an end together. The SDS Group has already announced its support for our amendment, and we hope that the remaining parliamentary groups will do the same by the end of the hearing before the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, for which Tadeja Šuštar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, good afternoon! The proposal for a law on the supplementaryity of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act corrects the wrongs that have arisen under previous versions of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The bill is primarily intended to eliminate injustices to farmers who have been protected for a narrower scope of rights and to pay pensions to the same extent as their colleagues for a wider extent, only that the latter have been associated with different cooperatives. Smaller farmers or those who did not want to join cooperatives for personal reasons did not even have the opportunity to pay insurance for a wider scale, although according to the size of the farm or the cadastral income they paid about the same amount as those in the cooperative system. Farmers will be able to apply for a new pension in order to ensure that the amount of the pension is in line with these legal amendments for a narrower range of entitlements paid by comparable contributions than for a wider range of entitlements already granted to them. They will also be eligible for the same pension entitlements as the annual allowance and the allowance for assistance and service. In addition, these amendments to the Act also change the status of the pension period acquired for the purpose of studying or serving a military term completed by 31 December 2012, i.e. until the end of the previous Law of the ZPIZ-1. This will be considered a new retirement period without a sum. In Slovenia, there are between four and five thousand people eligible for this. Those of them who are already retired will be re-measured in the amount of the pension. The current government has proved that it cares about small people and farmers who have been wronged. There is little need to eliminate injustices, but it takes political will to do so. The blames that have taken place are thus gradually eliminated, and in Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats will be unanimously supported by this bill. The bill should be adopted as soon as the injustices have been established, not that we have waited many years for their removal. Since there was no obedience to this earlier, it was obvious that it was necessary to wait for the government, in which the programme was also involved and implemented by New Slovenia – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Secretary of State, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The proposer shall address two areas of pension insurance, the way in which the pension is collected before 31. 12. 2012 and the rights of former agricultural insurers. It is therefore proposed to regulate the exemption until the period after the ZPIZ-2 is reached in such a way that the period accumulated before the date of 31. 12. 2012 treats the same as the non-compensation pension period and as the period of voluntary insurance under the condition of payment of contributions. The applicant also wishes to equalise the scope of the rights of former agricultural insurers according to the amount of contributions paid. We agree that the possibility of deciding between insurance for a narrower or wider scope of rights was one of the major shortcomings of the system at that time. In the SAB party, we are strongly committed to raising the lowest rural pensions, one of the reasons for the risk of poverty among pensioners. The proposal removes some of the past injustices and dilemmas related to the acquisition of the pension age, as in our view any work and any contribution paid must be taken into account. I would like to point out that the subject of discussion is only at home addressing the challenges of ageing the population, which will continue to be more and more if we do not address them properly. For the client, the SAB are pensioners and the related long-term care is certainly one of the key priorities. We have never agreed to austerity measures for pensioners in the SAB party, and we are therefore constantly advocating their total elimination. We have made sure that pensions are coordinated, that the percentage has risen and that even during the previous financial crisis, pensions have not been reduced and wages have been maintained. For more than 600,000 pensioners, at the initiative of the Skuina SAB and President Alenka Bratušek, we provided free public inter-urban transport. More than 140 thousand pensioners benefited from the benefit, which means that the measure was good and effective. In particular, the measure can be expressed in rural areas where pensioners can benefit from access to the city, to trade, to a doctor, to visit children and grandchildren. In the SAB Group, we therefore expect the government to proactively approach the challenges of long-lived society and finally propose systemic and comprehensive solutions. On this occasion, however, I would like to add something else. I appeal to the proposer. I suggest that the pensioners, as you have repeatedly stressed and wished, be provided with 13 pensions. I appreciate that this proposal is very good, and I stress that if you do not prepare it, because you have a lot to do with the COVID epidemic, this proposal will be prepared by us. In the SAB Group, we will support the proposal for a new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u61	The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u62	Thank you for saying that again. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In 2016, the White Paper on Pensions put forward the thesis on the necessity of simplifying the system of designation of different periods of insurance and simplifying the term of the insurance period. The latter was also raised at the starting point for the preparation of legal changes in pension and disability insurance, including the preservation of the expected rights under the heading of different ages. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we believe that it would not be too much to carry out an in-depth and comprehensive analysis of the actual number of pensioners and their benefits, depending on the funds paid. The system of this type of social insurance binds the resulting rights under this heading to pre-insurance and to the payment of contributions, including, according to our assessment, an appropriate high solidarity element to certain categories of insurers. The political consensus at the level of the coalition agreement between the current partners has reached a slightly higher level of common language in the area of caring for the older population, which we greatly appreciate by the members of Desus. During the six months of operation of this coalition, there are obvious positive developments in this area. And we hope that we will be able to do many more things as we continue to do our work. In particular, we want to definitively eliminate the financial deprivation of pensioners due to past failures in the regular coordination of pensions. The present novelty of the pension law touches on the issues we have already decided twice. Our position is well known and has virtually not changed much to date, but we will still give support to the proposal under consideration today. As we have already pointed out in the past, we see the key problem of all these different times in that, in terms of the financial contribution, they were very different. This also gives rise to our doubts about the eligibility of recognition of equality between them. In Desus, we are aware that each time a pension reform is an extremely sensitive topic. Not only because pension conditions are exacerbated every time, but also because any other intervention whose purpose is usually to maintain the sustainability of the pension allowance can cause injustice to someone who works and is involved in the insurance and expects contributions or who is paid on the basis of other forms and expects him to somehow enjoy all that he has contributed to the pension. It is clear that the so-called buying of the ad hoc era was not available to all for the same economic reasons. Therefore, partial interventions into the pension system are additional risky moments when a social group remains disadvantaged in one way or another. In the Desus Group we understand everything and do not want to exclude anyone, it is said that everyone who thinks they have been wronged because of their expected confidence in their own future social security, to which they have, after all, contributed to their own best efforts and in accordance with every legal arrangement offered. We will unanimously support the bill in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u64	Once again a nice greeting to all present! We have before us the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in second reading. Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that Slovenia is a legal and social state. Article 50 provides that citizens have the right to social security under the conditions laid down by law, including the right to a pension. Many find the pension system unfair, for those who have worked more or less their whole lives cannot have a comparable pension with those who have slept together on the couch. It is sad and disturbing that full - time pensioners cannot live with dignity and that every other pensioner lives just above the poverty threshold. Demographic ratios are unfavourable and will worsen in the future. That is why existing pension systems need to be adapted to the changes if we are to maintain intergenerational solidarity and the long-term existence of a well-established pension system. The problem is that physical workers are burned down and would like to retire as soon as possible, while young people are healthy and hang at home without a job in the best years. Today, there is no problem in working for those who were doing so well at the age of 70 in a comfortable office. ZPIZ-2 is a complex law, still full of anomalies, which cannot be quite mitigated by some partial measures. This is also the opinion of the Economic and Social Council. We will still witness new injustices, inequalities within certain groups over a certain period of time. They are confusion and will be, because it is a sensitive system that needs to be fully regulated, only the question is when it will be. Very deranged are pensioners in 2013-2019 who were retired at a low rate of 57.25% of the calculated salary base after 40 years of working age. It will therefore be necessary to take into account the rise of the dose rate for those pensioners who have been deprived. The new law proposes solutions for those insured who have acquired pension periods for the period of study and service of military service. The latter are in an unequal position with those to whom the period of voluntary insurance has been recognised as a non-compensated retirement period. Most of them could not finance their study years and years of military service, as high contributions from about 2 000 to 10 000 euros had to be paid at once. The proposer also proposes that the beneficiaries of a lower pension be given a new old-age, early or partial pension under an official duty. The blame also happened to former farmers who in the past paid the amount of insurance for the full range of rights. However, they were granted a higher level of entitlement insurance and a lower rate of pension when they met the conditions. The fact is that recognition and pension benefits depend on paid contributions, and therefore it is inconsistent with the principle of equality that the essential equal situations are treated differently. In the Slovenian National Party's Group, we will support the proposal for a law because we are against the injustices, inequalities and discrimination that has occurred to certain pensioners. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mag. Carmen Furman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposal for amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act now eliminates the injustices of the two categories of insurers that arose when the sectoral legislation was adopted. The proposed amendment to the law removes two discriminatory regimes, with amendments today regulating the acquisition of military and study years paid by insurers under the legislation in force until 31. 12. 2012, but they were overlooked at the rate of the pension these years and were disregarded by the law in force. The proposed amendment also addresses the status of farmers who have paid for the full range of rights in the cash register and which are recognised only as having a narrower scope of rights. In the exercise of pension and disability benefits, among other things, the principle of contributions paid shall be taken into account, taking into account the principle of intergenerational solidarity, fairness and equality. The latter means that the scope of the rights shall be determined according to the amount of the contributions paid to each beneficiary and not to an administrative category of the insurer. In view of the above, the current legal regime for these two categories of insurers is unfair and discriminatory, as they have in the past paid the amount of insurance for higher or full rights, and today they are granted insurance for a smaller or narrower scope of rights, and as a result, a lower pension has also been paid to this insured person, although there is no valid reason to treat them differently. However, such an arrangement is inconsistent with the principle of equality, as it treats different situations substantially in the same way. Thus, in the case at hand, the remuneration of pensions is treated differently by insurers who have paid equally high contributions, and today they are recognised as having different amounts of insurance rights. Today's proposed amendments are also followed by a decision of the Constitutional Court, which, in its decision No 239/14, has already taken the view that the principle of equality must also be applied to the recognition and assessment of pensions and that the recognition and assessment of pensions in substance depends on the contributions paid. However, the recommendations following the abolition of this discriminatory legal regime could not be overtaken by Members and also dealt with in the last three reports of the Ombudsman from 2017, 2018 and 2019. Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have been actively working for a long time to improve such unfair and discriminatory legal arrangements for these categories of insured or retired persons, so today we will also support this proposal or amendment of the pension law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u68	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! The proposed novel of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act proposes that the period of time accumulated for student and military years collected prior to 31. 12. According to the rules in force at that time, it shall be deemed to be unpaid during the pension period, as the period of voluntary insurance is deemed to be at the time of payment of the contributions. They also suggest that those who have already retired with a lower-rate pension due to their non-compliance with student and military years in retirement, their pension should be remunerated on the basis of their request. In addition, it is proposed that a new pension should be granted to former insurance undertakings from agricultural activities under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act of 1983, in the amount of contributions paid. We will support the changes to the law, and we will also support the amendment of the Left, as we believe that the equalization of pension periods must take into account those who voluntarily entered into compulsory pension insurance under the old law, called the ZPIZ-1, and have continuously paid contributions even after the implementation of the new law of ZPIZ-2. In doing so, we must point out certain concerns or concerns about the adoption of these amendments to the law. Firstly, the drafter cites only the flat-rate financial consequences of the proposed changes to the law, as they depend on the recalculation of the new amount of pensions for each individual user. We are also concerned that representatives of the competent Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities have spent very little time in the debate on the amendment of the law on the home labour body to present the Ministry's opinion on the proposed amendment and almost no words on the financial implications of the amendment of the law that is before us today. In some ways, I could say that we also understand the opinion of the Economic and Social Council, which has a number of concerns, as well as the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, which also warns that in the future it is necessary to avoid such partial changes of such an important system as pension, as such a way of changing the system often causes new injustice or causes inequality within the same group of beneficiaries of individual rights. We therefore agree with those who believe that in the future it is necessary to ensure an equalisation of all times within the framework of a comprehensive and systematic intervention into the pension system. We are also committed to seeking the broadest possible social consensus of the social partners and all other stakeholders in the pension system for future changes in pension reform. Nevertheless, as has already been said, we support change because it eliminates certain injustices and inequalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. 23 9. 2020. Since the amendments of the Left Group to Articles 1 and 4 are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. I therefore put to the debate paragraphs 1 and 4 and the two amendments of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? My friend Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Pure technical withdrawal, the legislation governing pensions and the functioning of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance is quite complex, quite old-fashioned. I have tried to present it somewhere in the categories of Latvian marriage in the position of the Group of Members, and I will now try to present it even more simply to make it easier to understand. Under the provisions of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, it was possible to acquire a pension period. Someone who works has a contract of regular employment, his contributions are separated from his salary, the cashier's office is filled, the pension period is running for such an insured person. It is slightly different if someone finds himself in a position where he does not have regular employment or employment contracts. In such a case, contributions shall not be deducted, at least not in such a way, nor shall the retirement period thus flow. Therefore, in cases where they were among the unemployed, some insurers decided that they would collect their pension periods or that they would voluntarily be included as self-employed in pension and disability insurance so that, despite being unemployed, they could still expect the same, normal conditions for retirement. Then, in 2012, pension legislation changed and this purchase was no longer taken into account for the insured in their pension expectations. This would not be quite wrong if the state informed these self-payers and warned them that their voluntary payments were virtually off-limits or no longer considered as normal retirement. And that didn't happen. And people kept on paying, and they kept paying, even though it didn't count to them, and they didn't get any credit. The guilt, the great injustice that we are trying to correct in Levica on this occasion to amend the Pension and Disability Insurance Act by submitting an amendment to the law. Therefore, that this category of insured persons who paid as self-payers for their normal retirement was no longer counted as having been paid for their normal retirement due to the amendment of the legislation, their payments are nevertheless recognised. It would be right, and it would be fair. In the previous examination of this law, our amendment did not receive support, but did not get it due to the technical difficulties in the process, because if our amendment were adopted, it means that some other amendment, I do not think that from SDS, could go through because such a procedure is entirely technical. That's why we didn't do much talking at the time. More importantly, at the substantive level of the National Assembly, we are aware that this failure to accept payment for a normal retirement exists as an injustice and that this injustice needs to be rectified. I hope that today, at this reading, we can hope that our amendment will be adopted, that it will be supported and that this injustice will be removed. The SDS has already announced its support, I hope that other parliamentary groups will also make themselves known in the debate and also confirm their support. We still have a vote today. Before we come to this vote, I would like to know, but I would like to clarify in the debate what is going on with our amendment, if any of you, colleagues and colleagues have any other questions, anything. And that we have prepared a sufficient number of votes to accept this amendment and to correct the injustice to this group of pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Andrei Reich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u72	Thank you. I'll be relatively brief. In the SAB Group, we advocate the elimination of all injustices that have occurred to pensioners and the elimination of all austerity measures. Unfortunately, not all the austerity measures for pensioners have been abolished, and in this light we also welcome the proposal of the proposer that these certain injustices and uncertainties, which have been discussed for many years, have finally been cut off and somehow resolved. However, we would like to highlight one dilemma in this light. The government announces a change in tax legislation, where it relieves the economy and people, thus reducing revenue to the budget and, on the other hand, corrects injustices from this budget, which is right. But still, in this light, I would like to draw attention to this discrimination, if you put it somewhere, take it somewhere, and these things are not coordinated or contradictory, in some immediate future, there may be a problem. In the SAB Group, we will certainly not oppose these proposals, which are for the benefit of the pensioners. We note, however, that it is the responsibility of the Government to ensure that these matters will also be more sustainable in the future, especially on the revenue side, where it somehow declares in all its voice that it will burden the economy, thus reducing taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Moja žnidarič, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. As I predicted in my position, I will support the marriage myself. We have always spoken, or we know, that it is a key goal of the pension fund or that it is based on the contributions paid. That's why I'm gonna start with these farm insurance guys first. I agree that if everyone has paid the same price, then everyone must be treated equally, even though at the time they had some other rights or obligations in insurance, and then some to a greater extent, some to a wider extent. It seems to me that we are now solving this injustice with this issue, because if they have paid equally, they must be treated equally and it is right that then all of them together are considered to be of a broader scope. Here, perhaps the only thing that bothered me was that these insurers had to make their own role on the PIZ within six months. The question is, will everyone then have this information, but on the other hand, I also understand that the PIZ should not have this information, who are these insurers? Since in all others, as we have heard from them, they will be automatically recalculated within six months. I would like to point out once again that our Group of Members of the Modern Centre Party was already in 2017, when in fact one group of people, those who voluntarily paid for their retirement period, were saved, and then it was arranged by law that all those who paid up to 31. 12. 2012, considered this period as a retirement period without totalling, our colleagues had already pointed out that certain additional injustices were being done. After that, this civil initiative to achieve the age became stronger and had additional arguments. I agree with them that they insisted on continuing, then also to all those who had accumulated up to 31 years of retirement. 12. 2012 to be admitted to them as well. I was on the other side of the job when I met these people. These people who have bought up their working hours have given very high amounts for this working period, and these were not just rich people, as some think they have bought up their studies. Some have agreed instead that the company will pay them, buy them military, and so on. So I am actually happy today that this matter is being resolved and that we are actually doing away with these injustices. As we recall, the Ombudsman also warned of this. In his last report, he wrote that if we do not recognize this period as working hours, the funds will be returned to them. I'm glad this thing's gonna work out. But I have one thought about the amendment to the Left. I am of the same opinion as the Ministry of Labour. So if those insured persons who paid for their retirement, they were given a transitional period to leave them until their first break or up to 31. 12. In 2013, we'd make another difference, an inequality. For those who have bought up time, we go to the exact date 31. 12. 2012. With 1. 1. They are no longer granted a retirement period without a sum-up, since then the law of ZPIZ-2 entered into force, which clearly distinguished these different periods of work, pension periods without totality and others. So I think that the most just thing is true, even though of course we want to eliminate as many injustices as possible, that it is the most just thing to do, that it remains for all, both those who have paid for the pension period and those who have bought it, that the limit of that date remains 1. 1. 2013 That is my opinion, so today I have no intention of supporting this amendment of the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Let me explain where the problem is. For the category of insured persons who have paid for their pension when they are among the unemployed, the problem is to take account of their payments up to 31. 12. 2012 and 1 respectively. 1. 2013 already saved. This was done in the previous term. But there is one hacker. Once the legislation has changed that these pension periods are reclassified and that payments are no longer valid after a specified date, no one has informed these insurers. Nobody. Not any department, not the Department of Disability and Pension Insurance. And, of course, people were still awaiting old-fashioned pensions. Indeed, an ordinary person in this country does not have time in his life to read every piece of legislation, let alone some pension legislation with some nearly 400 provisions. And here these people, as individuals, did not get in trouble, they did not make a mistake or anything like that. No, the institute, the state has let them down. And now, say very administratively, that all those payments that were made by 2013 will be taken into account, those payments that came later, but no, I think, nicely said, are unworthy. That's nice of you to say. In particular, since we also include a provision in our amendment in Levica – a fuse if you want to be recognised to these insurers even after 1. 1. 2013 until their first interruption. It is likely that this period between the time the law entered into force and the fact that the news of this insured person has reached the pensioners that their payments fall to nothing. However, if there is a case in this group of insurers that has paid since the beginning of 2013, somewhere in the meantime he has stopped paying for his retirement period and then started paying again, we can talk with reasonable certainty about speculation. That is why we say that payments should only be recognised until the first interruption. That's fair. If we don't, it's about like you came to the inn, you ordered your meal, you never got that meal, and then they put you hungry at the door. Of course it doesn't work. It does not go to a restaurant, and especially it should not do so in the area of social state. Right here where it's about people who didn't have any wages. The majority of those who opted for self-payment were in the midst of an economic crisis, jobs are disappearing, businesses are sinking, they were unemployed. Despite their unemployment, however, they decided that this would not interfere with their normal retirement, so they paid. Then the state considered what the pension system should look like, told them nothing, and they continued to pay, gave money out of their pocket, ripped it from their mouths, and then found that they had actually remained empty. You put some money somewhere, but they didn't get anything back, or they didn't get what you expected. Of course you can't. If I have correctly understood Mr Reich of the Party of Alenka Bratušek, we can hope to have support for our amendment, Mr Koprivc of the SD whispered to me in the meantime that they are also for this matter and that there is hope for support. However, at the previous hearing, the SDS has already said that they too see that this is a problem, that it is an injustice, that they will contribute votes. I hope that there will be more of New Slovenia, for example, of course of all other coalition parties, including Desus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Joseph Lenart has the floor for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. The proposal for a law on supplementary pension and disability insurance in the parliamentary group proposes solutions for the elimination of injustices to two groups of insurers or pension beneficiaries. Among other things, it is rural pensioners, an extremely vulnerable group of people who have sometimes worked small farms, and today they have too weak to be able, and the profitability of such farms is poor. In doing so, we want to tackle the injustices actually experienced by older farmers, widowers, farmers, single older men on farms. Examples from the field have told us that in fact, for payments from 1972 to 2009, people are getting in spite of payments to the ZPIZ 200 euros, some 250 and so on. We actually need Members here to know what's right. This is also why the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group has tabled this several times, and since there has been no hearing at the time, I hope that this time, as it was on the committee, we also have a positive feedback to make the marriage go through. The amendments, as they were actually adopted by the committee, will be confirmed here again, at least on my part. Then the amendments followed the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, and what it demanded was over. Our proposal supports the State Council, then the ZDUS also gave some positive views on it, then, believe me, even the peasant pensioners with the lowest pensions would support it if they were with us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Does anyone else have an interest in discussing it? I don't see any more interest, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, which is half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. On the day-to-day basis, this is another defence proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the guarantee and survival regime of the Republic of Slovenia under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Respectable colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens! Actually, I was approached by disappointed parents with the question of why the country allows and does not help those parents and children who are robbed of the maintenance payments of one of the parents and make them even more different. One of my moms wrote to me: “We are already very sick, we are stigmatized many times, but why my child does not receive maintenance all the time during his schooling.” Your Honor, it's true, but why is that? Simple. Because we may have given too little attention to some of the details that ultimately affect children, the so - called single - parent families, and, finally, their development. These children are already hurt so many times. They have these and other consequences because of the conditions they have survived and live them. Why do they have to be different? That won't be necessary. Therefore, I am very pleased that on the committee led by my colleague Eva Irgl, we have adopted a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, almost all the parliamentary groups have supported this amendment. Why is he actually going? Today, children who are not paid by one of their parents are replaced by a maintenance fund. However, the fund replaces these funds only until the age of 18. While those parents who pay maintenance for their children must pay up to 26 years of age or, I will be more precise as long as they go to school, receive maintenance, and that will be up to 26 years of age. However, children who receive this allowance from the maintenance fund are only 18 years old. Why second-rate? There's no need for that. And the fact is, in some ways, the government has not convinced us with its opinion. The recommendation of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers, which adopted the recommendations in 1982, does not refer to the time to be spent on maintenance funds. It only speaks of parental responsibility in the first place, and that is certainly what we all agree with. Sadly, though, we do not have all responsible parents. When there is no such thing, then the state must cut in between. The law is not extensive, it is short, but it saves the dissimilarity or second-rateness of our children. It's not right to divide them into first- and second-class. I'm talking about kids who get their livelihood in one way or another. Let's help them get an education. Let us help them to survive their difficult life as quality as possible and, above all, to feel that they are not forgotten that the country has not forgotten them. Once again, thank you to all the parliamentary groups that have supported this amendment. In this way, we have also proved in the National Assembly that we can stand together when it comes to our children. And this time it's about our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the representative of Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! At its 21st regular session, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects. Her representative, however, said that the amendments tabled in important part followed their comments and pointed out that the intervention in only two of the articles of the current legislative text proposed to extend the eligibility for maintenance compensation could constitute an incomplete and inconsistent legal regime. In its opinion presented by its representative at the meeting, the Government did not support the bill. It considered that the rights of children in the event of non-payment of subsistence allowances by dependents, that is the right to compensation for maintenance, that the Act on the Public Scholarship, Development, Disability and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia should be duly regulated and that it is in line with the recommendation of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. The budget appropriations for the draft law in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021 are also not provided. In a short discussion following the opening presentations on the Committee, it was pointed out that children aged 18 to 26 should also be entitled to maintenance, mainly due to the burden of many single-parent families, where one parent, as previously stated by the proposer, cares for the child and, for different reasons, does not receive maintenance. This would allow the Fund to complete education for a child who has already lived in a weaker social environment on so many occasions. Two proposals for conclusions were presented in this respect, but they did not receive sufficient support. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities then adopted the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to the title of the Act and adopted them jointly by Articles 1, 3 and 4 and finally by voting on all the articles of the bill together. A complementary proposal is in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u83	Thank you very much. To explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mateja Ribič, State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! Today we are in front of you with a bill relating to a change in maintenance allowance arrangements. In Slovenia, in the case of non-payment of subsistence allowances by dependents, the child has the right to a maintenance allowance governed by the Law on the Public Scholarship, Developmental, Disability and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. Under the current regime, he shall have the right to compensation for the maintenance of children who fulfil certain conditions under the law and who are not yet 18 years of age. The right to payment of the maintenance allowance under the current regime lasts until the age of 15 and 18 years if it is not in the working relationship. After the proposed amendment, the conditions for the application of the right to a maintenance allowance and the duration of the right to a maintenance allowance shall be amended. According to the law, a child over 18 years of age may also be entitled to a maintenance allowance and the right to payment of the maintenance allowance shall last for as long as the maintenance obligation is maintained if the beneficiary is not in a working relationship. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia disagrees with the proposal for a law because it assesses that the current regulation is appropriate and that it is also in line with the recommendation of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe in 1982, which adopted a recommendation stressing that parents are primarily responsible for the survival of children, but that the State must intervene when parents fail to do so. By recognising the right to a maintenance allowance, the State shall ensure the social security of the most vulnerable group of the population, that is, a child or persons who have not yet reached the age of 18 years, except in the event that a person has previously acquired a full business capacity. Since children are unable to do business, their legal representatives represent them in legal traffic, such as parents or guardians. The right to maintenance compensation, as governed by the law in force, until the age of 18, also constitutes the implementation of Article 54 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which imposes on parents the obligation to maintain their minors. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia also held in one of its decisions that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia does not refer to the rights of children of full age in Article 54. When an individual reaches the age of 18, he becomes a businessman, which means that he exercises his rights and cares for his own interests. Adult persons themselves in the enforcement proceedings of a maintenance debtor shall enforce the maintenance obligation. If they are not successful in the process, the State offers them assistance in a different way, namely through a system of social protection in the form of monetary payments for those persons who do not exceed the property price and meet other conditions for the allocation of the individual right. Maintenance is a civil relationship between a dependant and a maintenance beneficiary. In order to protect the benefit of children, the State enters into this relationship in juvenile children; otherwise, there is no reason for the State to enter civil relations in other cases. According to the other legal systems mentioned in the draft law, only Sweden has an arrangement whereby maintenance allowance may also be granted to full-time persons up to the age of 20 under the condition of regular education, the Republic of Austria has a duration of five-year maintenance allowance. A new application must be submitted after five years. In the Federal Republic of Germany, however, Germany has the right to compensation for dependent children who have not yet reached the age of 12. We also stress that the budget resources for the draft law in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021 are not provided. In view of the short period of implementation of the proposed amendment, it is also necessary to draw attention to the organisational problems of the Public Fellowship, Developmental, Disabled and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and to the fact that it is also necessary to harmonise the law governing the procedure for the exercise of the right to compensation for maintenance. Finally, it is recalled that the Legislative and Legal Service has also expressed the view that the intervention in only two of the provisions in force constitutes an incomplete and inconsistent legal system and that the proposal for a law should be supplemented by the provision of additional procedures to verify the eligibility for maintenance compensation, including amendments to other legal provisions, the content of which is adapted to the applicable time-frame for the duration of the right. For all these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia cannot support the content of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Messengers and Members of the House! In Levi, we will support a proposal that also provides for children or adolescents between the ages of 18 and 26 if they are subject to a maintenance obligation. If their parents are also obliged to support their children after 18 years of age, they do not pay their dependents to help them in the same way as for children under 18. So, on their behalf, he should delete the unpaid subsistence allowance and pay the compensation. This will relieve many single - parent families, where a parent takes care of a minor who is still in school and does not receive support from another parent. In view of the poor social picture of these types of families, it is appropriate that the Fund also enters into these cases, pays compensation and often complicated and tense, often taking on the role of a creditor in violent interpersonal relations. This would help the Fund to guarantee the child's right to uninterrupted development, including the completion of education. In Levi, we supported this proposal even after the SDS proposed it from the opposition. At the same time, we opposed the proposal of the SDS party that withdrew this law from the agenda of March. The right to a maintenance allowance for minors should be adopted firmly before the summer, and the SDS withdrew this law from the agenda at the time of entry into the government. At the Committee's hearing in Levika, we also drew attention to some other problems and injustices regarding the payment of subsistence allowances, complex procedures for the exercise of rights under the Fund and the unfair consideration of unpaid maintenance in the measurement of monetary social assistance. Poor parents, for example, are considered to be a fictitious income, which means lower social assistance. When a parent finally manages to recover an unpaid allowance, it can be taken back as income and reduces the amount of cash assistance. This causes great distress among poor, especially single - parent families. In addition to unfair treatment in the social protection system, the procedures for recovery of subsistence and the exercise of the right to compensation for many unbearably complex, emotionally burdensome and often the family that is damaged simply deviates from what many call a struggle for survival. The fundamental problem is that the beneficiary or his legal representative must initiate the enforcement proceedings himself in court against the debtor. It is therefore too bad that Members have not supported the proposals for conclusions that the Government should prepare a proposal for amendments to the legislation in this area, which would prevent the doubling of subsistence allowances in the measurement of monetary social assistance and facilitate enforcement procedures in the court for the beneficiaries of maintenance and procedures for obtaining compensation in accordance. Knowing that many problems remain unresolved, we will support the proposal of the law in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Tadeja Šuštar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. The draft law provides that the Public Fellowship, Development, Disability and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia would also compensate for maintenance payments after the age of 18 years of the beneficiary, up to the age of 26, or for the duration of the maintenance obligation, and that the beneficiary must not be in a working relationship. In order to protect the benefit of the child, the State shall enter into the relationship between the dependent and the beneficiary and shall pay the maintenance allowance when it comes to minors. In the case of adult children, the need for such protection is questionable, since at the age of 18, an individual may exercise his or her rights independently and thus, in judicial proceedings, also enforce the fulfilment of a maintenance obligation and, in the event of failure, seek social assistance. Only Sweden is listed in the draft law as a country where maintenance benefits may also be received by beneficiaries up to 20 years of age and not by 26 years of age in any of those countries. Social security is based on the basic idea of solidarity that the community avoids risks that an individual could never solve. Before that, however, we encourage awareness of the individual's personal responsibility for his or her own social situation. In our view, the responsibility for social security lies first with each full-year individual, then with his family, then with his working and living environment, and finally with effective legislation and adequate financial resources. In New Slovenia – we do not support the Christian Democrats' proposal for a law because we want young people to become independent as soon as possible, stand on their feet and take responsibility. At the age of 18, they can vote, pass a driving test, and also take on criminal responsibility. We therefore believe that young people are responsible enough at age to exercise their rights and to achieve the fulfilment of the maintenance obligation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u90	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! Maintenance is one of the institutions of family law, especially the maintenance relationship between children and parents or between spouses or ex - spouses. Most often, we meet her when we divorce a marriage that causes great stress for both parents and children. At the same time, it also means the financial burden of a parent who takes over most of the care of a child or children after a divorce. Therefore, the maintenance of a variety of caregivers is burdensome and makes it possible for the majority to maintain the basic standards of stay and activities that the child has been accustomed to. Where one of the parents fails to comply with the maintenance obligation, a public maintenance fund shall be placed in the role of the creditor, which shall, before that child or the parent, pay the maintenance allowance later recovered from the debtor. With the proposed amendment, the right to compensation extends to a larger number of beneficiaries or children, thus allowing more carelessness or education for individuals, while at the same time addressing a number of social hardships for single-parent families. The new law on the so-called maintenance fund thus increases the age limit for eligibility for maintenance allowance from 18 to 26 years or until the end of maintenance obligations. Thus, the public guarantee and maintenance fund of the Republic of Slovenia will also pay maintenance benefits to beneficiaries over 18 years of age and at the same time assume the responsibility of subsidised maintenance recovery from dependents According to the proposaler, the extension of this institution to full-year maintenance beneficiaries in terms of non-compliance will be preventive, while ensuring equal treatment of all beneficiaries of maintenance by the State Public Maintenance Fund. In the SAB Group, we believe that this seemingly small change is one of the major steps towards the objective of fair treatment of the most vulnerable groups, in particular children, so we will definitely support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Jurij Lep will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The dilemma in answering questions about the parental duty of child survival at political level as well as in the legal context of the general meaning of the definition of a family should generally not be the case. Parents are obliged to spend their children, as a rule, until adulthood or, in certain cases, full age. Survival is intended to provide the child with everything he needs to develop into an adult and thereby make him independent. As long as parents live together, the rule of survival takes place within the living and family community. Problems arise after the appearance of a separate parent’s life when a parent who does not live with a child does not meet his or her maintenance obligations to his or her child. Failure to pay maintenance obligations endangers the child’s well-being and reduces his quality of life. That the failure to recover would not affect the child's benefit, which our country, as a highly civilized, legal and social state, puts at the forefront, the aid comes from the public scholarship of the disabled and the maintenance fund of the Republic of Slovenia. The State shall, through this fund, provide the maintenance beneficiary with compensation and enter into a business relationship with the maintenance debtor itself. This ensures at least basic social security for children, but in accordance with current legislation only up to the age of 18. The purpose of the bill, which we are just talking about, is to provide maintenance compensation by the State even after the full age of the dependent beneficiary, even after a period when, despite their adult life, at least after the definition of the child, they still depend materially on their parents. These are young people who, although they are always dependants in relation to their parents under family law, do not enjoy the protection of the State in terms of the provisions of the Act on Public Scholarship, Disability and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. At least materially, it is essential for a child to be able to attend school, so that he can devote himself to the education he has chosen, and that he can successfully complete it and thus become a truly independent adult in the full sense of the word. Since the right to education is one of the most important children's and human rights, and education itself is indispensable in the exercise of other human rights such as the right to work, in the Desus Group we agree that the age of the child or the dependent beneficiary must not be an exclusion moment in the eligibility of State compensation for non-payment of subsistence. We will therefore unanimously support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Eva Irgl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The law that we have before us has been put in place in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to help improve the issue of subsistence. For we want the maintenance fund to pay maintenance to all, no later than 26 years of age. The fact is, one parent cannot afford to pay for a variety of reasons. Therefore, the maintenance fund assumes this role in place of them, paying maintenance payments only to persons up to the age of 18. Other parents who pay for their subsistence pay it up to a maximum of 26 years. And that is also what we want to achieve for all those who benefit from the maintenance fund. The Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee, which I am leading, has adopted a proposal for a law, as proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. I am also glad that the law has received this support, that we are considering it today at a meeting of the National Assembly and that such a change has proved essential. However, the aim of the amendment of the law was, as has already been said, to ensure equal treatment of all beneficiaries of maintenance by the maintenance fund. We have been following fundamental principles in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group that we think are essential for the social state, for the care of children, and for the State to provide equal support to children and young people in their development in the pursuit of these principles. This would also allow the Fund to complete education for a child who has already lived in a weaker social environment on so many occasions. We will support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, and we thank everyone you support very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Aljaž Kovačič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors List Marjan Šarca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u96	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia imposes in Article 54 on parents the right and duty to maintain, educate and raise their children. In accordance with the legislation of their children, parents must survive until they are 18 years of age, and in the case of further education of the child after age, but up to 26 years of age. If one of the parents does not live in the same household as the child, he fulfils his obligation to support the child by paying the child’s allowance. Maintenance is one of the institutions of family law and therefore constitutes the obligation of parents to their children to take direct care of the child in order to enable him to have the appropriate living conditions necessary for his development, education and vocational education according to his or her abilities, inclinations and wishes. In the event that parents fail to fulfil their responsibilities as children, the State intervenes. One of the parents or the underprivileged is obliged to pay on the basis of a judgment or a court decision or an agreement between the parents at the social work centre. However, if the maintenance is not paid, the beneficiary, i.e. the child, may receive a maintenance allowance, thereby providing him with basic social security. The compensation shall be paid by the Public Fellowship, Development, Disability and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which shall then request reimbursement from the debtor. Under the current regime, the child’s maintenance allowance is provided only until he or she is of age, although the parents have the duty of a child who continues schooling and who is not employed until the age of 26. This means that many children who are 18 years of age or older no longer receive maintenance benefits, thus moving away from maintenance responsibility. It is that a child, even an adult, can fully devote himself to education. Children whose parents do not meet their maintenance obligations are thus placed in a worse position than their parents’ peers, because they are not provided with basic social security, often translates into situations where they are forced to care for their own survival and consequently fail to complete their studies. With the proposal of the law, we will be able to compensate dependents for children where parents do not pay for maintenance until they are 26 years of age or as long as maintenance responsibility lasts. We will support the proposal in the LMŠ.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u98	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues! The proposer of the novel Law on the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to extend the possibility of exercising the right to compensation for maintenance until the age of 26 years, without limiting the time of reception and maintenance. By amending the law, it would therefore be possible for a child to become eligible for compensation due to unpaid or unrecovered subsistence even after the age of 18 years if he had been enrolled in secondary or higher education and had not been employed or registered in the unemployment register. All children under the current legislation are entitled to compensation for unpaid maintenance up to the age of 18. When they reach their full age, they are no longer entitled to compensation, although in accordance with Article 183 of the Family Code, parents are still obliged to pay their child’s subsistence allowance until they are regularly educated and employed or entered into the unemployment record by the age of 26. According to the maintenance fund, in January of this year, 3 000 313 children received an unpaid allowance, with more than half of these children over 14 years of age. Unfortunately, however, the number of open claims of the maintenance fund is increasing from year to year. In June 2019, the Fund had open claims for parents who did not pay for maintenance, amounting to EUR 57 million, which was 2% more than at the end of 2018. The number of claims that cannot be recovered increases because the parents who do not pay the maintenance are either unemployed or have a lower salary than can be cut by enforcement. Most also have no savings or assets; in individual cases, parents are homeless, in prison or moved abroad to an unknown address. It is also necessary to take into account the fact that the recovery of unpaid maintenance is already difficult at the outset, as the legal representative must try to recover the maintenance allowance from the parent who is obliged to pay it before applying for an unpaid maintenance allowance. If the parent has failed and has applied for a maintenance allowance, such a claim shall be treated as bad from the start. Social Democrats will support the amendment of the law, but we note the inadequacy of the new law, which can cause more confusion and bureaucratic complications. The wrong title of the law is not even the main problem of this novelty; a much greater problem in the implementation of the amendment of the law may lead to the inadequacy of the procedure for verifying the eligibility of maintenance benefits after 18 years of age, as the child becomes a full-time adult and thus a single party in the process. We are concerned that the law is written in a way that does not allow for the implementation of the objective pursued by the proposal, namely that compensation for unpaid maintenance should also be granted to children who meet the conditions of the Family Code until the age of 26. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. All in attendance, all in attendance! The Public Fellowship, Development, Disability and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia was established to settle obligations under the rights of workers in the event of insolvency of the employer and the rights of children in the event of non-payment of subsistence allowances and to promote the development of the employment of persons with disabilities and the preservation of jobs of persons with disabilities. Today we accept an important novel that touches one of these areas. The legislative purpose of the Act on the Public Scholarship, Development, Disability and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia was therefore to increase the social security of a particular category of persons, children, to maintain and strengthen the maintenance responsibility of dependents and to tighten and accelerate the recovery of maintenance debt. Only a child who has not yet reached 18 years of age is entitled to a maintenance allowance following the regulation. This means that children or persons over the age of 18 who are still in regular school and who are not employed are not entitled to financial protection and replacement recovery. The amendment of the Act on the Public Scholarship on Disability and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which we are considering today, proposes to amend the age limit for eligibility for maintenance allowance from 18 years to 26 years or for the duration of the maintenance obligation. In this way, the fund would also take on subsidised recovery for dependent children over the age of 18 years, and consequently such an institution would act preventively, including in order to prevent the non-payment of subsistence allowances for those children who are studying and who are over 18 years of age. The proposed novel is therefore addressing at least two important aspects of social threats. The first relates to the relief of many single - parent families, where one parent takes care of the child and the other parent does not pay for the maintenance. These families are often materially weaker, which can have irreparable consequences for the development of children and their future. The second aspect is that of the child himself, who would be allowed to complete schooling and realize his potential by the proposed amendment even after the age of 18. The proposed amendment would also allow children of full age to transfer claims to the fund and consequently the entry of the fund in relation to the maintenance debtor into the position of the child as a creditor. Even an adult child would thus receive timely maintenance in the form of a compensation from the Fund, and what is very important is that he himself would not deal with justification and enforcement. It is important to know that 18-year-olds are still students, usually in third years of secondary school, and for them, in view of the current regime in the case of non-payment of maintenance, the moment of age which can seriously endanger their education. It is important that a young child who is not employed by school is not further exposed to unpleasant parental confrontations due to the exercise of the right that belongs to him. With the proposed amendment to the current law, the Fund will become the entity that would recover from the maintenance debtor in the enforcement proceedings. I will conclude with a statement and a reminder from the situational analysis of the situation of children in Slovenia of the Institute for Social Protection, which says that the non-payment of maintenance is one of the forms of child abuse and neglect. In recent years, however, an increasing number of legal representatives of children or full-year beneficiaries face the problem of non-payment or recovery. On the basis of the reasons put forward, we will support the proposal for a law in the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, which is half an hour after the end of the 17th agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is another defence proposal for the Act supplementing the Act on Working Dimensions within the framework of the Final Procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of eight Members and first-signed Miho Kordiš. At its 21st session, on 2 September 2020, the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities considered the draft law as a work force. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Tadeja Šuštar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. A proposal for amendments to the Labour Relations Act was tabled before we adopted the CAP-4, which also regulates remuneration for quarantine workers. This also takes into account the circumstances in which the quarantine is determined when the remuneration is paid in the case of a certain quarantine. For example, if a worker is quarantined for contact with an infected person during working hours, he shall have 100 % of the compensation. If his quarantine is determined by contact with an infected person outside of work time, he shall receive an 80 % remuneration. However, in the case of quarantine due to a visit to a country on the red list, there shall be no compensation, except in the case of the death of the immediate family members or the birth of a child. Such an arrangement is fair because it distinguishes between the reasons why the quarantine was determined. However, the proposal to amend the Labour Relations Act tabled by Levica does not take these circumstances into account and proposes that all quarantined persons be compensated at 80% of their salary. In the opinion of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, it would be wrong for those who went on vacation to a country with a high risk of covid-19 infection, which is therefore included in the red list, to receive an additional 80 % of their salary for the award. The same compensation would be granted to those who would be quarantined for contact with an infected person in the performance of their work, despite very clearly different reasons for certain quarantines. Clearly, the Left does not prepare legislation in the interests of workers who comply with the rules, but rather those who get excited and have more important holidays in the Red List countries than in public health. The question is also raised whether it is appropriate to systematically regulate quarantine on the basis of the current situation with the Coronavirus. The next epidemic could be completely different. Perhaps it will have a different course or only some countries will be affected. We do not know this at this time and, in our view, it is appropriate to regulate the quarantine in the situation at that time with specific laws that will be adapted to the situation at that time. In the event of systemic changes, other laws relating to this situation should also be amended, including the Law on Infectious Diseases, the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance and the rules of compulsory health insurance, not only the Labour Relations Act. Because the change in the law would bring new injustices for the responsible and working people of these changes in New Slovenia – we have not supported Christian Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u104	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! The new Labour Relations Act refers to the system regime for the right to pay in the event of a situation in which we are in the wake of the declared covid-19 epidemic and, consequently, the imposition of quarantine on workers and workers. In the event of a certain quarantine, the applicants wish to ensure that a worker who is unable to perform work in accordance with the contract of employment concluded, and that the employer cannot organise work at home for him, to provide a remuneration of 80 % of the worker’s salary in the previous month for full-time work. In the SAB Group, we understand and agree with the purpose of the proposer. The current arrangement, when a certain quarantine is regarded as a higher force with a 50 % remuneration, is not intended for long-term unforeseen events. As the Commission of the State Council also points out, the current provisions of the Labour Relations Act in the past have not been formulated with a view to a longer-term epidemic of communicable diseases, but mainly with a view to unforeseen short-term events, which also leads to an agreement on the sharing of risk by half between the worker and the employer. In doing so, however, I would point to some facts that we should not ignore despite good intentions. If a specific institution is to be truly regulated in a comprehensive and systematic manner, it must also be aligned with other laws, acts and regulations that also address the problem, such as the Illuminating Diseases Act, the Health Care and Health Insurance Act and so on. Such harmonisation requires wider consensus, and I would therefore like to point out, despite the absolute eligibility of the proposer to submit a proposal for a law, that interference with the system provisions of the laws should be aligned with the social partners. Is it not better to cooperate and deal with the content of the problem by reaching a broader consensus? In the SAB Group we always put the seriousness and weight of social dialogue at the forefront. And the most important. The proposer shall not distinguish between the different reasons for determining quarantine. We have cases where a quarantine is imposed on an individual because of contact with an infected person who was unable to influence him and when an individual is deliberately sent to a country on a so-called red list in which the possibility of infection with an infectious disease is high. Such regulation shall not be followed by the proposer. He also did not address this by means of amendments that he had tabled prior to the treatment of the parent’s working body. Although the amendment allows for abuse on the one hand, it introduces, on the other hand, some meaningful changes to ensure certain systemicity and would no longer depend on the intervention of the problem. A worker who has been quarantined for contact with an infected person who has been employed and is therefore unable to perform work in accordance with a contract of employment concluded and the employer cannot arrange work for him at home would have the right to pay the salary he would have received if he had worked. Also a public servant in the event of preventive isolation. It also provides for parents of compulsory children and children involved in preschool education who have been quarantined. Parents thus have the option of paying 80 % of the worker’s salary. Members of the SAB, while we have some concerns, support the proposal for a novel that addresses the systemic regulation of the problem in which practically the whole world is located. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Yuri Lep will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, once again, Mr Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! This year, the bill addresses the current issue of quarantine, compensation for employees in this area and, of course, the issue of the holder of the financial burden of these refunds. The drafter of the law estimated that the complex circumstances of the COVID-19 epidemic led us to the point where it makes sense that this case of absence from work is systematically regulated in the Labour Relations Act. For the last six months, when we had to adapt to the new situation, and the government has really tried to approach and address all the people in the country by means of its actions, a number of questions remained open. At this point, the fifth anti-Korona package is already being intensively forged, which will be the same as all of the others so far focused primarily on protecting the population in all respects. For all the intervention measures so far, this problem has also been addressed. The latter was awarded in terms of adapting the epidemiological picture, which, given the many unpredictable unknown viruses and the responsibilities or irresponsibility of all individuals, is still unknown today. As a representative of the Desus Group of Members, I voted against the draft text of the law on my home working body. I have assessed that the marriage proposal is quite flawed, which is confirmed by our Law and Law Service and the Government. In addition, the fact that labour legislation is an area where fundamental human rights are concerned is not to be ignored. The Labour Relations Act represents the basic minimum of human rights as a worker. We are accepted, as is usually the case in all civilized countries and in all of us, in a broader consensus between the social partners. In order for a solution to become systemic and lasting for a long time, it is essential to recognise all the circumstances that make this solution meaningful and, to the greatest extent possible, acceptable to all stakeholders in the dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Eva Irgl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a law supplementing the Labour Relations Act has rejected the Labour Committee as inappropriate for further consideration and will thus be concluded today at the meeting of the National Assembly. However, in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, I should stress the following. I can say that the law we are presenting today in the positions of the parliamentary groups is well-intentioned, and so was the debate on the committee, but the Government does not support it, because most of the solutions proposed in this law have already been adopted in anti-Korona packages with slight modifications. The government has regulated similar proposals in the framework of temporary measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of the COVID-19 epidemic, so we do not see any reason for recasting the general labour law. The content highlighted today by the Levica Group has already been aligned with the social partners in the Economic and Social Council. Thus, for what we are talking about today, a high consensus has been reached on regulating remuneration for a certain quarantine. Let me stress, therefore, the right to compensation for wages is vested in a worker who has been quarantined and therefore cannot perform his work. The right to reimbursement was regulated for the remuneration of the employer, who cannot arrange work at home for a worker who has been quarantined. The right to compensation is also regulated for those who have been quarantined at border crossings when an individual has gone to a country on a green or yellow list. However, the remuneration is not justified by the person who has been quarantined for going to the country on the red list. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has well regulated the content that we are discussing today and that is why we have not supported it on the Committee of Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Jerca Korče will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u110	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Yes, indeed, the crown crisis required rapid action and a response to the new situation. Intervention and response should, however, be limited to those urgent and truly urgent matters. We have taken a constructive approach to the adoption of intervention anti-korona packages in the Marjan Šarc Group of Members, and we have never opposed the solutions aimed at solving the health and economic crisis. Moreover, with each package we have alerted you to your misbehavior and we have come to your aid with the amendments. You have rejected the amendments and subsequently made corrections when you found that we were right in the opposition with our well-intentioned proposals. Instead of regulating only those areas that required an intervention response by the State, through the crown packages kept bringing content to the table that did not have any point of contact with the health and economic crisis. Let me explain. By means of intervention laws, it is quite easy to reach out to various other laws and regulations, so one law amends the provisions in a number of other laws. Everything nice and right here, when you have to change something that's really urgent and it's completely justified. However, when will the Treaty of so-called intervention and intervention laws be concluded and when will this kind of legislative confusion cease? It is clear from the existing government that it intends to do so only when it hides enough cowardly eggs under the cover of intervention in all these laws to implement all its hidden agendas. Enough hiding to intervene, enough taking coronarys and coronations for your purposes. It is time, and this is what we think in the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca, that things actually begin to be regulated systematically in laws that regulate a particular area. People can no longer follow new and new intervention laws that interfere with different laws. On the other hand, they derogate from their provisions, repeal them and then extend the validity of certain measures and so on. Then, at the foot of the opposition, in this case, the Levica Group offers you the possibility of a system-wide arrangement for remuneration due to a certain quarantine, but you prefer to look for reasons for rejecting opposition proposals. Today, indeed, we will no longer vote on the amendment of the Labour Relations Act, as you have already decided to deal with it on the labour market. But you have once again proved to people that you really don't care much about them. Let's re-emphasize. In the Group of Letters of Marjan Šarca from this city, we call for matters that are systemic and touch on specific areas to be regulated in a specific law in a normal legislative way. Not in an anti-korona package, either way, you enter some positive things, some urgent things, good things, and on the other hand you enter things that don't belong there. We've seen this in anticoron one, two, three, four, and also five is nothing different. It's enough, we live in a normal country where we have laws, and it's time to regulate areas where they belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u112	Thank you, Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues! The determination of quarantine for an infected person or person who had a risk contact with an infected person at the time of the COVID-19 epidemic proved to be one of the more effective measures to limit the rapid spread of the virus among humans. The person who receives the quarantine decision significantly reduces the number of social contacts and thus the possibility of uncontrolled transmission of the virus forwards and further infects an unknown number of people. As long as we do not have an effective vaccine to protect against the virus or a suitable cure for the disease, we have no choice but to take into account, to the best of our ability, measures to contain the epidemic, to cooperate with epidemiologists in the search for different contacts and to respect certain quarantines. Unless otherwise provided for in the intervention law, the amount of remuneration for a given quarantine is subject to the provision of the Labour Relations Act, which states that, in the case of force majeure, which prevents a worker from coming to work, the worker shall receive a salary of 50 % of the regular salary. In case of force majeure, it is considered that no party is responsible for the reason that the worker cannot come to work, so the employer and the worker share the costs of absence from work in half. Such a legal solution was envisaged for unforeseen events of shorter duration, such as natural disasters, which prevent the worker from coming to work for a few days. However, it was not envisaged for force majeures that lasted longer than, for example, the current epidemic. We support the proposal to amend the Labour Relations Act because we believe that the level of remuneration for salaries needs to be properly regulated in the case of certain quarantines at systemic level. This would also ensure greater legal and social security for workers who would be quarantined. Thus, the level of remuneration would not be just part of the short-term measures and would depend on the political will of the current government. By adopting this bill, workers would maintain material and social status during a certain period of quarantine, as they would receive a 100 % remuneration if they were infected in the workplace and 80 % pay if there was a reason for a certain quarantine or a risk of out-of-work contact. In addition, parents of children who were quarantined would receive higher salaries. The only point we have raised in the consideration of the amendment of the law on the home committee was that the amendment does not include the current provision in the intervention law, which states that the person visiting the country on the red list for an unjustified reason is not entitled to compensation for remuneration for a certain quarantine. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that such a marriage solution is appropriate because it discourages people from unduly visiting a risky country and bringing the infection back home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u114	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members, all other Members present! As indicated in the proposal for the amendment to the Labour Relations Act, the proposed solutions refer to the situation created by the COVID-19 epidemic and seek compensation for quarantine in general legislation. In the proposed supplement, we find solutions whereby a worker who, due to a certain quarantine, is unable to perform work under a contract of employment, and the employer cannot organise work at home for him, provides compensation of 80 % of the worker's salary in the previous month for full-time work. A minimum amount of compensation is also proposed, which must not be lower than the minimum wage. Like many other marriage proposals in the last few months, this bill has also emerged as a response to the negative consequences that the infectious covid-19 disease has caused to our society for some time. The absence from work due to a certain quarantine also has negative financial implications mainly for lower income workers. The arrangement of remuneration for quarantine is therefore necessary. The solutions proposed are acceptable to some extent, although lacking, but above all they do not regulate the widest possible range of situations. Therefore, we must not ignore the fact that any epidemic or infectious disease that might occur in the future can be so different from the past that the provisions proposed by the drafter by amending the Labour Relations Act, including the supplements dealt with by the parent committee, could most likely not apply to other situations in which another infectious disease occurred. The circumstances and reasons for the withdrawal of the quarantine are therefore very different, but this proposal does not refer to the law. There are also various reasons for absence from work due to force majeure, although the definition of force majeure is unlikely to be accepted by the applicant. An example of the obligation to protect a child due to the imposition of a quarantine measure or other outside objective circumstances of inability to attend a kindergarten or school is certainly possible to be considered a higher force. The draft law also lacks the definition of entitlement to remuneration if a worker is quarantined for a conscious visit to a country on the red list. Only a few of the key shortcomings of the bill are listed In view of this view, it is necessary to regulate remuneration in the current situation when the quarantine is determined mainly due to covid-19 disease in an intervention law which will take into account the specificities of this disease, the widest possible set of situations and the links between sources of infection or contacts and, on this basis, the entitlement to pay compensation, the different amount of compensation and the consequent sharing of responsibility between the worker and the employer. On the basis of the above reasons, we have not supported the modern centre of the proposed law in the Group of the Parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Today, we say good-bye to the marriage proposal that we tabled in Levica on the basis of a position that we do not deviate from. This is that compensation for a certain quarantine worker's right. Pika. We're not saying anything else, we're not saying anything less. But the majority in the National Assembly seem to disagree. He does not agree that this is a substitute for the right of work and, since that is the case, ladies and gentlemen, at least have a face, and say it publicly. You won't. You prefer to deceive, especially in two ways. First of all, you claim that the government already regulates the quarantine compensation in intervention legislation. That's how you keep it in half. This legislation discriminates because it distinguishes between red and green countries and allows border crossings when it is in the interests of capital. Why can workers cross the border to me for the purposes of profit capitalists, nothing to you, and all the rest of them are quarantined? First-class, second-rate, depending on who deserves it. At the same time, intervention legislation does not cover parents who must stay home because their child is quarantined. Similarly, it does not cover compensation in cases where preventive isolation is determined for public servants. At the same time, this legislation is interventional, it's temporary, it's fleeting. It will expire at the end of September, this September, and we still do not know whether workers with specific quarantine will be taken care of after the end of September. Ladies and gentlemen, it is 6 days before the end of this month, and people still do not know in the situation of record-growing infections whether they will lose half of their salary at the beginning of next month or not, or whether the state will compensate them for the quarantine it itself requires. You may be enacting a new intervention law during this time, but in the absence of this government, I wouldn't count on it. In doing so, the answer to the essential question remains – why not provide this compensation as a permanent mechanism? The excuse that our marriage proposal was not in line with the social partners is, to put it mildly, ridiculous. The response to better intervention measures is shortsighted. You also say that our proposal was not in line with the social partners, but the fact is that it has received the support of the trade unions centres has also received the support of the State Council. He did not directly intervene in the labour-capital relationship, but provided compensation from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, no one on the employer's side would be worse off, while for a thousand workers this would be a rescue plant and a guaranteed income. So, ladies and gentlemen, in your excuses, why not support this law, you really did have to try. Your Secretary of State has even stated at the Committee on Labour that, in the matter of compensation in the event of a certain quarantine, I will quote it as follows: "It is necessary to take into account the fact that it is a healthy person and should therefore be addressed in the intervention rules." End of quote. So this is not supposed to be a matter for the Labour Relations Act, so this is not a work right. The logic of this secretary-general is truly brilliant. According to him, the same logic would also require an intervention law for the use of annual leave, as it does benefit healthy people. The absence of State holidays, education or personal circumstances should therefore be governed by intervention legislation. These are the logical conclusions of the Secretary sitting at the Ministry, who is said to be in favour of work rights. And look at the fraction, all these rights enjoyed by healthy people are regulated by the Labour Relations Act, not by intervention laws. All of these are absences for which compensation is provided on a permanent and systematic basis. And that's right. Where we come from, if we partially solve these kinds of problems, we can see early this summer. In June, we had over 6,000 people with a certain quarantine who had lost half their salary and threatened to slip into poverty. Why? Because there was no systemic basis and because you were solving it in intervention legislation. Now it looks like it's going to be the same again in early October.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is another defence proposal for a law amending the law on transport in road transport within the framework of an end-of-the-way procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members with the first signed Maša Kociper. At its 19th meeting, on 8 September 2020, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space considered the working body as a parent. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! On 30 June this year, we were struck by the clear news from the Ministry of Infrastructure that, as of 1 July, the following day, students and students would no longer be entitled to free travel by public passenger transport; that was a long-standing practice until then. We were shocked by this in the SAB Group, so we immediately reacted and put in place a proposal for a law amending the Road Transport Act. Although the Ministry informed students and students a few days later that free use of public passenger transport would also be possible this year. The purpose of our proposal is to transfer this long-standing practice to the legal level. Thus, the rights of students and students would no longer depend on the will of each government or public passenger transport operators. Our proposal thus had no financial implications. Such a marriage solution would not only have a positive impact on students' and students' wallets, but would also help to promote sustainable and green mobility. As a result, the negative effects of transport on the environment would be reduced. Public passenger traffic shall operate on a regular basis regardless of whether the vehicles are full or empty. In the SAB, we want trains and buses not to drive empty. We have also achieved this through the proposal of former Infrastructure Minister Alenka Bratušek for free cross-border transport for pensioners, disabled persons, veterans of war and over 65 years of age. Since 1 July this year, these beneficiaries can drive free of charge. According to the latest data, some 150 000 beneficiaries have taken advantage of this option. On this occasion, we also call on other beneficiaries to secure a card as soon as possible. The COVID-19 epidemic has also affected a large number of students and students, so any additional cost can be burdensome for them. Also, in the summer months, most of them carried out student work, and they are not entitled to reimbursement of transport costs for work and work. There are also some study obligations during the summer. Our proposal to amend the law was also welcomed by the Student Organisation of Slovenia, where they agree that the right to free use of public transport is enshrined in the law. We cannot hide the disappointment that the members of the parent's working body did not perceive this problem and followed the government's position, and so in the vast majority of our proposal they objected. The government has rejected our proposal with a well-known excuse that there are partial changes and that things need to be addressed systematically. In doing so, we recall that even in the case of free tickets, officials at the Ministry of Infrastructure have seen a hundred and one reason why free tickets for pensioners over 65 years of age, disabled persons and veterans cannot be carried out. But since then, Minister Alenka Bratusek has received clear instructions. Today, this benefit has benefited nearly 150,000 users. We have recently tabled another amendment to this area, namely the proposal to arrange for free urban transport for pensioners, disabled persons, veterans of war and older than 65 years in all municipalities, where this is a compulsory public service. In SAB, we strongly oppose saving on young people and at the same time promote public passenger transport. In the future, however, we want this to be possible for all to redirect as many of our fellow citizens as possible to buses and trains. Remember, 52 new passenger suits are gradually arriving on the track, and fast bus lines are also being introduced throughout Slovenia. That is why we regret that our proposal, which we have drawn up, has not received adequate support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! For students and their parents, one of the higher costs is a monthly, semi-annual or annual ticket to school. For those living outside of school, such costs are inevitable, but it should be stressed that the school year lasts from the beginning of September to the end of June and for students from the beginning of October to the end of July. For this purpose, tickets are also limited in time. In the Desus Group, we stress that the provision of free subsidised transport during holidays must be the result of a dialogue. Also for this year, the competent ministry and the providers of subsidised transport have reached an agreement, despite the epidemic and the additional costs which have consequently burdened the state budget. The cost of free transport is by no means small, as the applicant wished to present it, as the representative of the Government also stressed. Among other things, additional costs would be borne by municipalities that are already financially burdened. We just can't accept this. In the Desus Group we advocate dialogue between all partners. Each party must show a hint of understanding that the costs incurred by the introduction of such laws must be borne somehow. And if we take money from the state budget, then we simply have to take it from where it might be urgently needed. We must not forget that the state budget is not a bag without a bottom. It must be managed economically. However, the government representative mentioned a plan for a comprehensive change in the subsidised ticket system. In this area too, additional proposals for improving subsidisation need to be repeatedly sought. It should be pointed out that the COVID-19 epidemic has changed a lot. We can see that students have been attending their secondary schools for several weeks now and have largely adhered to measures to prevent the spread of infection. Students will start their study year in a short time, and we do not know exactly how their education will actually take place. In any event, we must be aware that financial pressure on public transport providers will be high due to all additional measures. In the Desus Group, we believe that an agreement to provide free subsidised transport for students and students will also be reached in the summer months of 2021. Therefore, let us focus on our own strength to face the challenges that surround us. We haven't gotten rid of the Coronavirus yet, and we're going to have to do a lot more to defeat it. In this place, however, you would like to wish all the students you have already started to study, as well as the students you will join them in a few days’ time, happy in this new school year or year, and stay healthy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Bojan Podkrodšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u122	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, nice greeting. Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues and all those accompanying this meeting of the National Assembly! We have before us the Road Transport Act recently tabled by the Alenka Bratušek Group in the National Assembly. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are appreciating and constantly aware that the transport of students and students is, of course, a great cost for parents, and consequently for all students, students, students and students who study and who use this transport every day. We are also aware in the Slovenian Democratic Party or in our parliamentary group that this proposal was to some extent urgent and attractive. We can never adopt laws in the National Assembly, which will burden our congregations as a result, for free local transportation is especially applied to congregations in our country. We believe that dialogue and dialogue must always be taken into account. We are pleased that dialogue has been found during this holiday time and that the ministry has done its homework. What I'm trying to say is that this is going to happen in the future. Our common task is that the trains and buses that drive across our country will be filled as much as possible with our citizens and citizens, in this case students and students. We call on the Ministry to continue to seek dialogue so that these transports for students and students will be free of charge. However, as for the law that was brought into the National Assembly by the Group of Ambassadors, Alenka Bratušek, we reject it in our Group of Members. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u124	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues! Slovenian students and students had the possibility of free use of public passenger transport during summer holidays. Of course, they had to buy a monthly, semi-annual or annual subscription ticket for the chosen public passenger transport route. The Covida-19 disease crisis has also affected this area. As a result of the financial upheaval resulting from the coronary crisis, this benefit was sought this year, and the ministry has changed its mind at the last minute, and our students and students have also been given this opportunity this year. In order to avoid such complications, the bill's proponents decided to introduce a law to resolve these complications and uncertainties in this area. The solutions proposed in the marriage proposal to allow all students and students to use free tickets during the summer months for driving throughout Slovenia, regardless of the relation for which they were bought and subsidized, were recognized as good in the Group of Social Democrats. It seems to us that the measure introduced by the Ministry at first, but then changed his mind, was excessive. However, the introduction of this law would have some financial implications, but there are resources to enable the law to be brought to life also in practice provided in the budget line for an integrated public passenger transport system. The Social Democrats' Group supported the draft law on the Home Working Committee, but unfortunately some other parties did not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mateja Udovč will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u126	Your Honor! With the amendment of the Road Transport Act, the student and student candidate want to legally regulate the entitlement to free tickets during summer holidays. This arrangement is supposed to apply in the whole of Slovenia. At first glance, this is a very nice measure, which is intended to further improve their financial position for students and students, but we must not forget that the validity of tickets in summer months for students and students in practice is already very well regulated. The proposaler, the SAB Group, well knows that the extension of the student and student tickets in the summer months has been successfully regulated by a yearly special agreement between the competent minister and the carriers. All former Infrastructure Ministers made such arrangements with carriers, including Alenka Bratušek. In doing so, it could be found that it was a leaky practice that caused no problems for anyone. At this point, however, it is justifiable to ask why Alenka Bratušek did not detect this problem at the time of her ministry and proposed an appropriate legal amendment to regulate the extension of tickets at the legal level, of course if there were legitimate reasons for this. We can therefore rightly conclude from this point of view that the bill we are considering today is merely the populist nature of the former Infrastructure Minister. Moreover, last October we had a proposal for a government novel on road transport transport last October, but such changes as Alenka Bratušek proposed today were not in sight. The then Minister did not even indicate that this issue should be settled at the legal level. Nor did it then present a solution to ensure free public transport for pensioners, disabled persons and war veterans, as the SAB is now proposing in another amendment to the Road Transport Act. This is currently in the legislative process and will be dealt with. However, the second part of the answer lies in the major financial effects that these changes would have brought if they had been adopted already during its ministry. When we considered the bill on the home committee, the Secretary of State explained that the assessment of the financial implications of the proposed solution was also entirely inadequate. The financial implications were estimated at 3 million and a half a year, and in reality the financial implications are much higher than 15 million a year. It is clear that the country must promote mobility and encourage people to use public passenger transport more frequently through various measures, but that will unfortunately not be possible only by providing free public transport. Attention should also be paid to better transport, timetable and network of available stations. Public transport must become attractive to users in all respects. Unfortunately, this will not only be achieved by setting exceptions every six months and providing free or cheaper public transport for certain categories of passengers. It is time for a thorough, professional and, above all, a reasoned overhaul of the integrated public passenger transport system and, in this context, the ticket subsidy scheme. The system needs to be uniform, uniform and allow all beneficiaries to travel smoothly by public transport for all activities related to education, sports, work or leisure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Michael Prevc will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a bill amending the Road Transport Act, proposed by the SAB in Parliament following a reduced procedure, would allow for free tickets for public passenger transport for pupils and students during summer holidays throughout Slovenia, irrespective of the relation for which the tickets were also subsidised during the school year. While the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose the proposal, it points out that such partial intervention in the field of the regulation of subsidised tickets is not appropriate. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Blaž Kosorok, told us on the home working body that the Government is carrying out activities related to the preparation of a comprehensive renewal of the subsidised ticket system, to simplify the system and allow all beneficiaries to travel smoothly through public transport for all education-related activities. The renewal of the subsidised ticket system will also take into account the possible validity of both annual and semi-annual tickets during summer holidays. In the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, we certainly support the free use of public passenger transport even during the summer months throughout Slovenia for students and students. It does not seem reasonable, however, to deal with the amendment of the legislation, as the right to a free ticket for public passenger transport for those users of subsidised transport during summer holidays in the current 30-year practice has been intact. However, this issue has also been successfully addressed through an agreement between the competent ministry and carriers. The calculations show that the financial implications of the bill would be significantly greater than anticipated by the proposer, since if the proposal was adopted, transport operators would have the right to subsidised tickets, which would burden the state budget for the poor EUR 15 million. In the event that the local self-government is ordered to implement the legal obligation for urban transport, the legislator must also provide the means for its implementation. We also have doubts in Novi Slovenija about the applicant's claim that the proposed solution will make it easier to carry out student work, as the flexibility of driving schedules is questionable according to the needs of students and students. For all the reasons mentioned above, we did not support the draft law in Novi Slovenije on the working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is another defence proposal for a law amending the driver laws in the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Blaž Kosorok, State Secretary to the Ministry of Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u130	Mr President, Members and Members, thank you for the floor. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared a proposal for an amendment to the Drivers Act solely for the partial transposition of the provisions of Directive 2020/612 into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, with partial transposition of the Directive being ensured by an intervention in the provisions of Article 1, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 6, of the Drivers Act. Three articles are amended by amending the provisions of Article 1(2) of the Drivers Act to complement the reference to Directive 2006/126 of the EC on driving licences with its last amendment, namely Directive 2020/612 of the EU, which is also subject to partial transposition into our legal order. The second Article; amending the provisions of Article 60(6) of the Drivers Act provides that a person is not required to enter a restriction in a driving licence, i.e. registration of code 78, that is, driving a vehicle of a particular category only with automatic transmissions, does not, if the person already has a driving licence obtained on the basis of a practical part of the driving licence with a motor vehicle with a manual transmission of category B, BE, C1, C1E, C, CE, D1, D1E, D or DE and performs a practical part of the driving test on a motor vehicle with an automatic changer of category B1, C1, C1, C1, C, CE, D1E, D1E, D or DE. According to the applicable legislation, the entry of a driving licence restriction shall not be performed only in cases where a person already has a driving licence obtained on the basis of a practical part of a driving licence with a motor vehicle with a manual changer of category B, BE, C1, C1E, C, CE, D1, D1E, D or DE and performs a practical part of the driving test on a motor vehicle with an automatic changer of category C, CE, D1 or D1E, but not in cases where he performs a practical part of the driving test on a motor vehicle with an automatic changer of category BE, C1, C1E, D1 or D1E. Article 3; this is the final provision, by Directive 2020/612/EU, also provides that Member States shall adopt and publish by 1 November at the latest the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with that Directive and that those provisions shall apply from 1 November 2020. In accordance with that provision, the final provision of the amendment of the Drivers Act provides that the law shall enter into force on 1 November 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Bojan Pod oblast. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u132	Thank you, Vice President, once again for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! Summary of the report to the Proposal for a Law amending the Drivers Act. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 19th session. 9. 2020 as a mother's work was treated as a proposal for a law amending the Drivers Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. On behalf of the proposer, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure Blaž Kosorok stressed that the Government has prepared a proposal for a law solely for the purpose of working to transpose the provisions of the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order. As a major substantive change, he highlighted the provision of Article 60, paragraph 6, of the Drivers Act, which provides that a person is required to register a restriction in a driving licence, that is, to enter code 78, to drive a vehicle of a category only with an automatic gearbox, shall not perform if the person already has a driving licence obtained on the basis of a practical part of the driving licence with a motor vehicle with a manual changer of category B, BE, C1, C1E, C, CE, D1, D1E, D1E, D or DE and shall perform a practical part of the driving test on a motor vehicle with an automatic changer of category BE, C1, C1E, C, CE, D1, D1E, D or DE. Under the applicable legislation, the registration of restrictions on driving licences shall not be performed only in cases where a person already has a driving licence obtained on the basis of a practical part of the driving licence with a motor vehicle with a manual changer of category B, BE, C1, C1E, C, CE, D1, D1E, D or DE and performs a practical part of the driving test on a motor vehicle with an automatic changer of category C, CE, D or DE, but not in the case of a practical part of the driving test on a motor vehicle with an automatic changer of category BE, C1, C1E, D1 or D1E. The legislative and legal service had no comments on the draft law. The draft law is also supported by the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. Without discussion in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law together. Since no amendments were adopted to the draft law on the home working body, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space of the National Assembly proposes that the proposed Law on Amendments to the Drivers Act be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we cannot imagine life without a vehicle, either a motor for short distances or an adventure escape, a car for daily use, or a truck for transporting cargo or machinery. If they have different uses, they share the fact that everyone requires safe use, which of course we learn in a school or other educational systems. There is no way we can use all vehicles with uniform education. As young ones learn to drive with a traditional pin or tomosome, they quickly recognize the difference between a motor with an automatic gearbox. Of course, buying a vehicle with a higher engine power increases the difference between vehicles. If you are given stronger engines that you can pass in more mature or responsible years, you should also feel safe. Automobiles are therefore particularly concerned about safe driving with stronger engines, as they achieve higher speeds and consequently lower safety due to other road users. But everybody can't drive all the cars like that. The conditions need to be met to ensure as high a level of road safety as possible. It is always necessary to adapt to the world of vehicle development and road transport. It is also very important that the legal order in the field of drivers in EU countries is as similar and complementary as possible. However, the fundamental responsibility of education and the provision of safe driving is the responsibility of each country of the European Union. The draft law amending the Drivers Act transposes part of the EU Commission Directive into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. This will provide that the person conducting a practical part of the driving test on a motor vehicle with automatic transmissions will not be required to enter the restrictions in the driver's licence if the person already has a driving licence obtained on the basis of the practical part of the driving licence with a hand-held motor vehicle. This will also address the issue of other categories of vehicles not covered by the provisions in force so far. Members of the Desus Group will, of course, support the proposal for a law amending the Drivers Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u136	Nice greetings again to all present! The Republic of Slovenia took note of the amendment to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on driving licences, which also interferes with the non-inclusion of the administrative restriction code in the driver's licence. This is a minor amendment to the bill providing for partial transposition in relation to minimum requirements concerning driving examinations. The proposal for a novel is adapted to European Union law and therefore Member States need to transpose the Directive by 1 November this year in order to be coherent and to make no distinction between their rules. The content should also be presented after the entry into force to all staff members in the administrative unit working in the field of driving licences. The question is whether employees will be relieved of their work or make their work more difficult. It is therefore important that the sixth paragraph of Article 60 of the Drivers Act provides that a person performing a practical part of a driving licence on a motor vehicle with an automatic changer of certain categories of registration of a restriction in a driving licence is not to be carried out. In doing so, a person must already have a driving licence obtained on the basis of a practical part of the driving test carried out by a motor vehicle with a manual transmission of certain categories. The holder of an administrative restriction code 78 may only drive a vehicle with an automatic gearbox. The code shall be deleted if the person carries out a practical part of the driving test on the vehicle with a manual gearbox. At times, cars with automatic gearbox have been quite rare in our country, and today there are more and more cars on the market. There are several hybrid electric cars with automatic gearbox. The latter makes it easier for some drivers to drive their car and it also takes place more liquid and carefree. As far as the driver's license code is concerned, there are quite a few. Most Slovenian drivers and drivers have entered code 01 to drive with glasses or contact lenses. There are also many young drivers with code 220. The Law does not derogate from the principles on which the current regime is based. It also has no financial implications for the state budget and other public funds. There was no initiative, and there were no comments from experts and other public. We support the amendment of the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Leon Merjasec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, welcome to all colleagues and colleagues! The amended Law on Drivers of Article 60, paragraph 6, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is considered to be less difficult to harmonise. On 4 May 2020, the Republic of Slovenia was informed of the implementation of Commission Directive 2020/612EU concerning the amendment of Directive 2006/126EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on driving licences, which also interferes with the non-inclusion of an administrative restriction code into a driving licence, which is a fundamental reason for the preparation of a proposal for the Drivers Act and the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. By amending the provisions of Article 60, paragraph 6, of the Drivers Act, a person performing a practical part of a driving test on a motor vehicle with an automatic changer of category B1, C1, C1E, C, CE, D1, D1E, D or DE shall, under the applicable provision, only be subject to categories C, C1, CE, CD or DE, if the person already has a driving licence on the basis of a completed practical part of the driving test with a manual changer of category B, B1, C1, C1E, C, CE, D1, D1E, D or DE. The proposal for a law amending the Drivers Act is thus adapted to European Union law. Member States should transpose Directive 2020/612EU into their legal order by 1 November 2020. Its transposition into the internal legal order of the Member States of the European Union will ensure that there is no distinction between its rules. The proposed law aims to partially transpose Commission Directive 2020/612 amending Directive 2006/126EC, which does not derogate from the principles on which the current regulation is based, and takes into account the principles of ensuring consistency and effective implementation of the European driver acquis. Nor is the spending of budgetary resources foreseen for the adoption of the law and therefore there is no need to provide additional financial resources, which is why we support the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The views of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Matej Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u140	Your Honor! We have witnessed great technical progress in recent years. As a result, this is also reflected in the transport-car industry, where it is evident that more and more modern and safer vehicles are being used. These are vehicles which are expected to cause less emissions in the environment and, on the other hand, are equipped with a variety of semi-automatic, automatic or hybrid gearboxes. So in this case, we're talking about hybrid and electric cars. The data on the number of hybrid and electric vehicles in Slovenia are already telling us clearly that their use is increasing steadily and that our fleet is becoming greener. In Slovenia, the number of hybrid passenger cars increased by 48 per cent from 2018 and the number of electric passenger cars increased by 53 per cent in 2019 from 2018. However, if we compare these trends with the whole European Union, the data is even more eloquent. In 2017, the number of hybrid and electric cars was seven times higher compared to 2013. When we talk about rules, driving licences, which are an essential part of the common transport policy in the European Union, we must take these positive consequences of technical and resulting green progress into account. Amendments to the Driving Licences Directive relating to the area of non-entry of the Administrative Restriction Code into the driving licence were adopted in May of this year. The proposed amendments to the Drivers Act align the legal order of Slovenia with the amendments to that Directive. The administrative restriction code shall be entered in the driver's licence if the candidate has completed the practical part of the driving licence with a vehicle having an automatic, semi-automatic or hybrid gearbox. The applicable legislation provides that such a restriction shall not be entered in the case of a person conducting a practical part of the driving licence on a motor vehicle with an automatic changer of category C, CE, D or DE. However, the condition is that a person already has a driving licence on the basis of a practical part of a driving examination carried out with a motor vehicle with a manual exchanger of one of the categories B, BE, C1, C1E, C, CE, D1, D1E or D. In accordance with the amendments to the Directive, the non-inclusion of the restriction is extended to category BE, C1, C1E, D1 and D1E. As it is said, amendments to the European Driving Licences Directive are being transposed into the Slovenian legal order by amending the law, which is dictated by a constant increase in the number of electric and hybrid passenger cars in our area. In addition, simplifying the current restrictions on driving automatic vehicles will reduce the administrative and financial burden on stakeholders, including small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the field of road transport. In the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, we will support the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Michael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. Hello! According to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has sent a bill amending the Drivers Act to the parliamentary procedure after a reduced procedure, it is only a minor change to the law. This is a partial transposition of the European Directive with regard to the minimum requirements for driving licence. The draft law provides that a person conducting a practical part of a driving test on a motor vehicle with an automatic changer of category BE, C1, C1E, C, CE, D1, D1E, D or DE shall not be required to enter a driving licence restriction if the person already has a driving licence obtained on the basis of a practical part of the driving licence with a motor vehicle with a manual changer of category B and all the above categories. The draft law will not affect the procedures or operations of the public administration or judicial authorities. There will also be no obligation on the parties to the public administration or judicial authorities and on other matters. Nor does the law provide for public financial effects. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u143	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, which is half an hour after the end of the 17th agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. AND 16. At the end of the day, this is another defence proposal for a law supplementing the law on the protection of public order and peace and the proposal for a law on State border control supplements. To these items of the agenda, the initial explanation of the applicant, presentation of the reports of the parent working body, presentation of the Government's opinions and presentation of the views of the members of the groups will be carried out together. Both draft laws were tabled by a group of 30 Members and Members with first-signed Matjaz Han. In order to further explain the draft laws, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler Predrag Bakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u144	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The appearance of village guards as well as guards received special attention and excitement. If we remember the events of the group in Apache, the activities of the individual in the White landscape, the presence of the guards at the state border, the training and order in front of the Presidential Palace, the event in the Slovenian Bistrica, in Ormož, all of these events, which have greatly upset the Slovenian public. If I focus on security, it is actually a military or paramilitary formation with its symbols, such as coats of arms, flags, hierarchical arrangements, command, training, troops and a commander, who also has the title of Duke or Archduke. In the public, doing so gives rise to misrepresentations of their competence, and such conduct should therefore be defined as an offence. This is contrary to the constitutional and democratic order of our country. Members of such paramilitary groups shall interfere with the physical and mental integrity of individuals and shall impede the exercise of the rights and duties of persons, state authorities and the authorities of self-government local communities. It should be logical that in a democratic and legal country, someone should not give the impression that he is an official or military person performing official duties. The effectiveness of the police so far has not been good under existing legislation. He also explained this in a written response to the interpretation of the current Minister Hojs. In total, several violations and two criminal charges were dealt with. Even in the case of Slovenska Bistrica, when members of the guard entered the police station, they found no signs of a crime, they dealt with a crime for which the prosecutor later found it was not a crime. I hope they at least commit a misdemeanor. As a result of all these circumstances, we have prepared a proposal for a law amending the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace and a proposal for a law on the control of the state border. The main amendments to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace are that decorative weapons, imitations that do not have the status of weapons, must not be shown or used in such a way that they appear to be performing the tasks of officials or military personnel if they have caused harassment or threat, but have been avoided and they did not want to be exposed. Now it's enough for a police officer to determine this violation. Exceptions to this provision are laid down who can do so, as written, for the purposes of film, television, theatres, events whose part of the programme is the carrying and display of arms and are organised in accordance with the Law on Public Collections. The new Article 11a refers to the use of uniforms and masks, the wearing of which is prohibited only if the individual seems to carry out the duties of officials. There are also exceptions that I mentioned earlier. Only by encouraging the appearance that the tasks of officials or military personnel are being carried out does it not cover other problematic acts that we have witnessed in the past, such as training, structures, as we have seen before the palace of the President of the Republic. Therefore, the second paragraph provides that a person who wears a uniform or clothing similar to that of an official or military person in a group of at least two persons shall be punished, and by his behaviour, behaviour, movement and retention in a particular public or private place or by the use of symbols, coats, flags or by creating an impression of the hierarchical order of the group or by the use of vehicles on which the identification marks or other equipment or devices are affixed, shall be regarded as a police or military vehicle and shall not have the legal basis for operating within the law. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service expressed certain concerns, which we have settled with the amendments and prepared in a manner that corresponds to the comments that the Legal and Legal Service has warned about. As regards the amendment to the State Border Control Act, I would point out that the protection of the state border is the exclusive competence of the police. Finally, it is the foundation of statehood, for we all know the definition of a country that is a territory, a population and a coerced organised authority. Emphasis is on organised authority and, of course, coerced. And that's actually a monopoly of coercion that only the state can have. The events that have taken place in our country have become very problematic and the danger is manifested in particular by limiting the effectiveness of police work, the threat to public order and peace and health in the event of a meeting of village guards with migrants and also with police officers. Experience has shown, however, that the perpetrators of these acts are quite conflicted. These practices that we witness, under existing legislation, are not a violation, or only when a person who cannot be a police officer is threatened, intimidated, hurt. However, such offences only occur when a person commits a specific act that only an official may perform, for example, exercise such an authority. Thus, the main amendments to the Law on State Border Control are as follows. Article 4 clearly defines who is responsible for the control of the state border and identifies what is prohibited, and any activity carried out with a view to controlling the state border, as well as encouraging such activities. Therefore, any activity of an individual or group which, with a view to controlling the state border, is carried out in the same or similar way as the police and the police have this in Article 6 of the Law on Police Tasks and Powers is prohibited. It also prohibits police interference with the control of the state border. Here some Members have raised some concerns in the debate, but let me say that obstruction of the police can already be a crime or a crime, such as preventing an official act. Unwarranted criticism has also emerged that we are turning crimes into crimes. That's not true. It is important to know that the novels did not interfere with the Penal Code and all crimes remain intact. It often happens that signs of crime and crime are covered. This is particularly the case in some kind of fight, in vandalism, in threats where it can be one or the other. Therefore, the Offences Act regulates this by favouring criminal proceedings. Unless the criminal procedure has been successful, the infringement procedure shall continue. Of course, there is also a need to follow the principle of bis and go. The Act on Offences states: “If a criminal charge has been brought against the offender for a criminal offence which also has signs of an offence, or because of such an act, a criminal procedure may not be initiated, if it has begun, and it shall be terminated and shall not continue until the criminal procedure has been completed. During this time, the prosecution of the offence does not proceed and does not proceed until after the jurisdiction of the decision on the offence.” Thus, even in cases where the matter is concealed either as a crime or a crime, the criminal offence is first prosecuted and then committed if the criminal process is not successful. In our view, the laws are ready and we are convinced that they are good and that they are addressing a problem that is becoming more and more pressing. They're based on what the profession has prepared, so they're the police. Finally, confirmation that the laws were good has also been added by the Legal Service, which, in fact, did not have any comments on the amendment of the State Border Control Act and only minor comments on the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, which we have taken fully into account and also the fact that both have been adopted on the Home Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, the Chairman of the Mag. Branko Grimes, and since he's not among us, let's move on. In order to explain my opinions, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Anton Ola, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal to supplement the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace highlights the attention and excitement of the public to the appearance of village guards, whose members are dressed in the same clothes and uniforms, and uses symbols, which give an impression of a strong organizational hierarchy. In view of the wrong public perception of their competence, such behaviours should be criminalised in order to be effectively prevented. It is proposed that, under A, the prohibition of wear, display, use of the imitations of weapons which arouses the appearance of the performance of the duties of officials or military personnel; under point B, exceptions to other prohibitions shall be laid down; under point C, the use of clothing similar to those of official or military personnel shall be prohibited if the appearance of the performance of their official duties is aroused; the following point shall be the offence for a group of at least two persons, if they wear clothes similar to those of official or military persons; under point D, a fine higher than the minimum prescribed shall be allowed for the offence authorities. The Government agrees that changes in this part of the legal order are necessary and necessary, but in a more thoughtful and clear processing of the legal signs of offences. For this reason, the Government opposes the proposed legislative changes and considers that the proposal is not appropriate for further consideration. Key shortcomings shall be demonstrated by determining the liability of the perpetrator only if the offence is committed in practice, which is difficult to prove in practice; the wording of the law concerning the exemption for the use of props for other commercial purposes which regulate the scope of the uniform; the unnecessary repetition that the offence can be committed in a public or private countryN is the unconcretionality of the entity in which it appears to be a person carrying out official duties; the indeterminance of the seizure of weapons used together with mask uniforms and symbols does not give rise to the excitement or sensitivity of the threat of individuals. It would also make sense to arrange for the removal of masks and symbols so that offenders do not repeat their offenses. Finally, the organisation and training of members of security guards should also be prohibited. The proposed amendment does not alter the prescribed fines laid down in the Tolars, even though Slovenia entered the euro area in 2007. The proposal to supplement the State Border Control Act highlights the inadmissibility of the involvement of village guards in the work of the police in monitoring the state border. Since these conduct of village guards is an obvious or disguised purpose for the exercise of State border control, it is necessary to incriminate such behaviour in order for the police to carry out their statutory tasks of protecting the state border and to act effectively against violators. It is proposed that, under point A, it be clearly determined who is competent to exercise State border control and to whom these tasks are prohibited; under point B, any conduct with a view to controlling the state border shall be prohibited in a manner similar to or similar to that of police or police interference in the performance of this task; under point C, legal persons or individuals shall be prohibited any conduct which constitutes the promotion or facilitation of prohibited conduct. The Government agrees that certain changes in this part of the legal order are necessary and necessary, but in a more thoughtful and clear form of legal violations, the Government therefore opposes the proposed legislative changes and considers that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. Key shortcomings shall be demonstrated by determining the perpetrator's liability only if the offence commits an innuendo, which in practice is difficult to prove, the proposed amendment to Article 48 is also substantively flawed because it does not impose sanctions on the individual who commits the offence referred to in Article 4. Nor does the proposed amendment prohibit and sanction the obstruction of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces who can cooperate with the police in the wider protection of the state border. The notion of promoting and proposing an amendment to Article 48 of the Law on State Border Control is also unclear, since it is not clear whether this would constitute an already publicly expressed incentive [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u147	Mr. Secretary of State, your time is up, I'm sorry, but that's right. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The Member Group of the Slovenian National Party and Jani Ivanuš have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u148	Once again a nice greeting to all present, especially the Secretary of State. We have before us a supplement to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace and the Law on the Control of the State Border. Look how many people are wearing uniforms today. From firefighters, soldiers, cops, guards and so on. When the Styria Guards appear in public, they also use coats and flags to give an impression of a strong hierarchical arrangement within these organizations, which is nothing wrong. If you have read anything about them, then you know that behind covered faces, masked clothes, uniforms do not stand an unbalanced person, ignorant recipients of social assistance. Their members, who are over a thousand, must be honest, patriotic, and trustworthy. With their troops, learning basics of orientation, night marches, learning safe handling with weapons, alerting people and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to awaken awareness that they are not right to remain silent and are silent, but to talk about their problems and problems. They have experienced many things, and their purpose is to help people and to inform the police about the crossings. After all these things, is their conduct still a serious threat to public security? I'm negativizing the branches from you. Instead of fines, punishments, we should share medals, praise these people. The police are doing well, but they do not have sufficient control over the illegal migration of migrants and the growing problems and conflicts with Roma. During the summer months, the latter were demolished there in Ankara, Portorož and elsewhere, as we read at the daily level. The operation of the Slovenian Armed Forces should also be taken into account after regulating the area, which, when activated by Article 37a of the Defence Act, assists the police in protecting the state border. Andrej Šiška, who is Slovenian, does not break the laws and threatens no one, would be punished, imprisoned. Migrants, who are foreigners, would go across the border. What's the logic here? Self-organization of the people is permitted. We also have the right to defend ourselves against aggression. In Slovenia we have too many foreigners who would not defend our country if it were necessary. In the Slovenian National Party, we are against screwing with Slovenians, migrants and Roma can do whatever they want, and no one can harm them. Stealing, lying, beating, raping and so on. We can expect more and no less to happen in the future, so there is still room for people to organize. They'll start arming themselves. And that's right. But times are such that it is necessary to defend ourselves, your family, your loved ones. In the Slovenian National Party, we will vote against both amendments to the law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party are to be presented by mag. Branko Grimes, who is not in the hall, so we suggest we move on. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Rudy Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The problem with the operation of the paramilitary groups, I'm not going to name them here on purpose, so they don't have to do any more commercials from this town, not since yesterday. The police's obstruction of the work of protecting the state border, for example, under the cover of alleged aid, attempts to take or imitate the forms of police work that are solely within the powers of the state security authorities, led the previous government of Marjan Šarc to prepare a new law on State border control and on the protection of public order and peace. In March this year, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Government has not confirmed this and has only encouraged and encouraged these paramilitary groups. Their actions have become even more presumptuous, more arrogant to the point that they have hoped to occupy the police station in Slovenia Bistrica, harass, legitimize our, foreign citizens, tourists, accuse Ormožan of hiding illegal refugees and who knows what else. In short, their operation is exemplary and in the face of the concept of national security as defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It is national security and must be exclusively within the jurisdiction of the State. The government's position on the proposed novels is earlier bureaucratic than substantive, according to what is known," it should be thought through" and nothing about when and how. It is not too late, but it is too late, as it is a fact that no one has the right to obstruct the work of the police in protecting the state border with their activities or in any way to imitate the work of the police and to assume the tasks that are solely within the competence of the state authorities. The Slovenian police themselves oppose the establishment of self-calling groups and so-called village guards and their activities along the state border. This means a certain degree of safety risk. The police therefore reject the attempts of these groups to demonstrate publicly that they are cooperating with the police in the performance of their official duties and, in fact, these groups are responsible for national security threats to this same national security. There is no room for them in most European Union countries. Complementing those laws by prohibiting and sanctioning an individual or a group of people who, by wearing uniforms or uniforms of similar clothing and using decorative weapons, would carry out tasks that are exclusively the responsibility of official or military personnel of the Republic of Slovenia. The key point is that the security authorities, in their work, ensure the protection and respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms as well as respect for human personality and dignity, which is certainly not the case in practice in the functioning of these self-proclaimed guardians of order and peace. Any other actions by groups that wish to carry out tasks that are solely within the competence of national security authorities, rather than ensuring security and peace for citizens, constitute a destabilisation of peace and a sense of security. However, in disregard of formal legislation, forms of extremism and violence are emerging sooner or later. For the successful work of the official security authorities, good cooperation with residents and the general public is good. The provision of information on offences or offences to security authorities facilitates their work. However, the enforcement of sanctions against committed offences or criminal acts must be exclusively – exclusively within their competence. Such cooperation with the security authorities does not, of course, require the wearing of any disguised clothing or the imitation of a weapon which in the local environment, rather than a desire for peace or the prevention of certain acts, constitutes a destabilisation of peace. In any case, only the police have all the necessary qualifications, experience and knowledge to implement measures based on substantive legislation. At the same time, it means that, when the relevant decision is taken, this control may also be increased by the involvement of an army, one of the three subsystems in addition to the intelligence and internal security system, which consists of a single national security system. And only in this context must we, we can and can carry out activities at the border. However, the solutions proposed do not fully address the problem of establishing such paramilitary groups. The phenomena of extremism are a global problem. However, they prevent the unacceptable operation of such groups in practice and make it clear that in the Republic of Slovenia national security concerns are in the broadest sense the word exclusively – exclusively within the jurisdiction of the State. Because of all of this and because the government of Marjana Šarc had already responded to such phenomena in its mandate, it did not get adequate support for its proposals, which was also to some extent incomprehensible to us. However, this is precisely why, in the Group of Letters of Marjan Šarca, this time, the marriage texts, which, by their primary purpose, are similar to those of the Government of Marjan Šarca, will certainly be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u152	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State! Ten months ago, 26 more specifically. 11. In 2019, the former Government introduced two legal novelties into the legislative procedure, namely the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace and the Law on the Control of the State Border. In the introductory part of the legislative proposals, the Slovenian police reported that in 2018 and 2019, when increasing the illegal crossings of the state border, they saw more frequent establishment of various movements, initiatives and associations – we are talking about guards and village guards – as a form of security self-organisation of citizens. When these groups operate, individual elements of the offences are detected. Let me quote something in writing. In particular, the wearing of uniforms and imitations of weapons is controversial, and the public is not generally disturbed by the said work. Training from survival skills, near the state border, and publicly proclaiming that they are protecting and so on. These actions, as a consequence, do not, as a rule, constitute explicit infringements of the rules or do not have all the signs of a violation. However, when a person’s actions are described in a way that causes him to feel humiliated, threatened, hurt, or afraid, such conduct has all the signs of wrongdoing, especially under the law on the protection of public order and peace. Those acts shall be committed only after a person has committed an act which is justified by only an official or military person, so that he exercises those powers in the law or carries out an official operation or carries out signs of any other offence of official persecution. This is the opinion of several district state prosecutors who have not decided to prosecute in the cases described above in the case of police reports. I continue to quote: "The above actions may also pose a serious threat to public security, as a police officer may be misled in the process and would use disproportionate coercive means to ensure their own safety, security and property, which could endanger the lives of these people." I also quote: "The individual actions of such groups specifically point to security risks for the Republic of Slovenia, as they can be combined under the pretext of self-organising security with the disguised purpose of carrying out the defence and security tasks of the Republic of Slovenia and protecting the state border, which are solely within the competence of the competent national authorities. A negative impact on the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia in an international environment, which has already been demonstrated by the high interest of foreign journalists and their reporting in the media of other countries, could also have an inadequate or difficult response of state authorities to the actions described by such groups.” Furthermore, another quote: »The conduct of self-organised groups described is contrary to the Constitution and democratic regulation of the Republic of Slovenia, which protects in particular respect for human dignity and inherently linked human rights to security. The basic duty and the task and mission of the police is to ensure security for individuals and communities, and therefore the legal area must be upgraded by criminality of certain conducts so that the police can effectively carry out their statutory duties or tasks of maintaining public order and controlling the state border and act effectively against self-organised groups in the event of detected violations.” Why do all these quotes need to be read? As we are aware that the solutions proposed today are not correct, even if they are in the direction of the facts identified by the Ministry of the Interior's professional service. Moreover, we are reminded that in the proposed novel we did not correct the fines recorded in the Tolars in euro. This is seen primarily as a provocation and diversion of attention from the content of the novel of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace and Problems, which has upset a large part of the population. We have supported the new law on the protection of public order and peace and the law on the control of the state border by the previous government in the Group of Social Democrats. Unfortunately, the novel did not receive adequate support at that time. After careful consideration and examination of the proposed solutions, and not least on the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, we have decided to prepare a new novel. Not to gain any additional political point, as many people read it to us, but only to regulate or begin to regulate this area and to clearly highlight who in Slovenia cares about public order and peace and who in Slovenia is responsible for controlling the state border. The state border is protected and supervised by only Slovenian police. The police manage the situation at the border and do their job well. This is recognised both by the professional public and by foreign countries. Only members of the Slovenian Armed Forces can cooperate with the police in monitoring the state border under clear and certain conditions, and we find that they also cooperate well with the police, even though they do not have police authority. Are the solutions proposed real and ideal? Are the solutions right and going in the right direction? Probably not perfect. However, we are looking for optimal solutions with which we will save the residents, especially the border areas, disturbing events on various formations of masked people dressed in military uniform, with their faces covered and weapons in their hands, walking under their houses' windows or even legitimising them. Or in any other illegal way, they are harassing anywhere in Slovenia's territory. It is our intention that, with the proposed solutions, I hope that it will also ensure effective protection of public order and peace in order to realize the individual's right to security and dignity as fundamental human goods and constitutional rights. It shall also ensure the effective implementation of the duties and duties of the police or the conduct of criminal proceedings directly linked to the provision of security to the individual and the community. We will support the proposed novels in the Group of Social Democrats, together with the signatories. But we certainly hope for broader parliamentary support and move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The views of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u154	On 3 September 2018, photographs and recordings of the training of a group of armed and masked men were rounded up on social networks. It turns out it's a paramilitary unit called the Styria Guard, led by Andrej Shisko. Today it has been more than two years since that event. And today is the final day when we have managed so much political reason and stopped the infertile debate on whether and how their conduct should be sanctioned or whether the existing legislation provides sufficient legal basis for the security authorities to act. Finally, the president of the National Assembly took off his pants and made him laugh in front of the Slovenian public. Neither the President of the State nor the President of the State Council, who allowed the guards to parade around the Presidential Palace and the state councillors at the meeting of the competent commission, were able to do so. The examination of both draft laws was only possible for Andrej Šiško to accompany his mother's working body in the visitors' room without the possibility of participating in the debate. And that's right. There must be no room in public institutions for people to scold, to create an atmosphere of fear and uncertainty, intolerance and hostility, or to spread any kind of radicalism and extremism. Security experts also point out that Slovenia is no longer immune to various forms of radicalisation and extremism and that all of this requires a serious response and, last but not least, appropriate action by the state authorities. On the other hand, it is difficult to understand the arguments of some parliamentary groups on the abuse of uniforms during World War II and the possibility that legal provisions could be misused to deal with non-governmental organisations at the border and environmental activists. This is certainly not the case in the text of the proposed legislative amendments. The law clearly refers to so-called paramilitary units and individuals acting with different motives and with different purposes that do not comply with our constitutional order. In the SMC Group, we have been warning over and over again that the security authorities do not have all the necessary powers to act against guards, as the government or the Minister of the Interior has finally acknowledged in his opinion that the indivisible police action shows the inefficiency of the current regulation of the functioning of village guards, which, with deliberate forms of action that are not yet prohibited, avoid sanctions. Therefore, we will once again support the proposed solutions in the SMC, as we have for the first time. Unfortunately, the first attempt during the previous government was unsuccessful. But it is very important to know who opposed him. In the SMC, we expected a new proposal to amend the legislation to be prepared by the Minister of State or by the current government, in particular because of the many incidents committed by the guards by this summer. Since he has not responded to our warnings and calls, we have decided to support the opposition proposals that have already been tabled in the legislative process. Thus, this is precisely what the above-mentioned more than dictates the regulation of the issue of trusts and the proposed novelties do – they prohibit the conduct of individuals or groups which, with a view to controlling the state border, are carried out in the same way as the police tasks intended to carry out such control. In addition, the proposal sanctions groups wearing masks, uniforms or clothing similar to official or military uniforms and the imitations of weapons, of course only in a way that arouses the appearance of performing the tasks of officials or military personnel. In the SMC, we oppose the establishment and operation of any paramilitary formations and village guards. The State must have zero tolerance for all initiatives and activities by which individuals or informal organisations attempt to carry out tasks under the authority of the state administration, local self-government or holders of public powers. If we draw the line below this, we will not and must not allow the organisation and conduct of groups, such as guards and village guards, who want to take over the tasks of police or official institutions. We must therefore prohibit or sanction their behaviour and provide the security authorities with a legal basis for action. It's bizarre and unacceptable that some of these groups even got their own reality show. Net TV viewers can watch the Vard series without censorship recorded by members of the guard. It's time to drive them out of the media and public space. On the basis of the SMC proposal set out in the SMC Group, we support both laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u155	The position of the Left Group will be presented by Nataša Sukič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! The left was and remains a sharp opponent in the operation of the guards and in general the abuse of the refugee problem to spread fear and intolerance. Therefore, we believe that the operation of the guard should be strictly sanctioned at the time of its occurrence as a criminal offence in accordance with Article 305 of the Penal Code, for which neither in the previous nor in the current government has there been sufficient political will. Instead, we have received a handball replacement solution, which is inappropriate for some reasons. Let me count at least two. Because the crime turns or softens into a crime. In fact, border control, halting and legitimising people and similar activities of the guard are a crime under the existing Penal Code, for which it would already be possible for members to guard against fines or imprisonment for up to one year. The SD proposal, however, somehow softens the crime into an offence for which a substantially milder sanction is imposed. Secondly, the problem is a vague and widespread dictatorship of new offenses. Some of the new criminal provisions are written in such a way that they can be applied even more widely, for example to sanction any activity at the border, from naturalists to fighters for the rights of refugees. The proposed amendment to the law on State border control defines as a violation of police interference in the exercise of State border control. The police themselves will assess when a protest is hindered by the implementation of its work. We have before us a proposal to supplement the two laws proposed by the previous government in a similar form. In Levica, as we say, we firmly believe that the police could and should act today. The act already defined by the Penal Code as a criminal offence by the Criminal Code is an issue for an official, and you will be referred to as a new offence. Someone who's supposed to be in jail would rather be ingrained? The same is true of the use of masks, uniforms or other clothing similar to uniforms. If someone seems to be performing the tasks of officials or military personnel, this is already a crime today. It does not matter whether it bears the indications of the Slovenian Armed Forces or the Police, it is important that it arouses the appearance of the official. The applicants would rather view this as an offence, which is absurd. As absurd as it is, such an approach is essentially a de facto recognition. The Vardo, who breaks the constitutional order of this country, will be simply accepted and recognised as something that is being deepened and not necessarily prosecuted on the basis of a crime, which is undoubtedly a violation of the constitutional regime. The applicant’s argument is that the purpose of these changes is to facilitate and speed up the punishment of members of the guard compared to the criminal procedure. That's right. That's right. The infringement procedure is of course easier, lower evidentiary standards are required, so that the profound power is very simple to express, and then the criminal must exercise his right in court if he wishes to change the decision of the criminal authority. In criminal proceedings, the State Prosecutor's Office must prove guilt to an individual or group for which it requires sufficient evidence provided by the police. This requires the involvement of both the police and the State Prosecutor's Office. And it wasn't in the previous government or in the current government. It just wasn't. In fact, this is a problem, not a lack of legal grounds for the prosecution of guards. That's why Shisko and his guards rightly laugh in our faces and continue to parade to the state border and hunt people. They don't even hide it. On the contrary, the images of their anti-constitutional and criminal acts are published on social networks, boasting about their works in front of TV cameras, showing off by breaking into a police station, legitimising foreign citizens in the middle of Slovenian cities. But the police are nothing, because apparently they do not have the appropriate instructions and guidelines by an irrevocably withdrawn minister, who is still a minister. What are the key problems of the marriage proposals ahead of us? There's quite a few of them. First time. It should be borne in mind that in the event of a choice between prosecution of a crime or a crime, the police will in most cases take a line of least resistance, that is to say, easier and shorter road, and will treat the act as an offence and not more than a crime. Another time. The same act, the same historical event is pursued only once. This means that if someone is punished for an offence of a criminal nature, they will not be punished for a crime. This reduces the social danger posed by such an act. The right solution for the problems of state prosecutors is therefore the more demanding work of the police, which is the most present in the border area. If they can prosecute and detect illegal border crossings, they could probably also detect and catch the so-called Slovenian Guard in illegal legitimacy. The law on the duties and powers of the police allows the police to use a type of police authority and also covert investigation measures under the Criminal Procedure Act, which can prosecute the offences and provide evidence if they so wish. Third time. We are very concerned in this proposal about the vague and wide-ranging dictates of new offences, which is extremely controversial for Levica, but the applicants unfortunately did not have to listen to our warnings about the abolition of these dictions. Some of the new criminal provisions are written in such a way that they can be applied more easily. For example, sanctioning protesters at the border, from naturalists to fugitive rights fighters, for example. This measure is thus not intended exclusively for security, but also for all others for the authority of disruptive groups. The police will have total discretion in this regard – on behalf of fighting paramilitary groups in any way. Fourth time. There's something else that's very important. By committing offences by the police, we leave the punishment in the hands of the executive and no longer the judicial branch of the authority responsible for dealing with crimes. This, however, leads to very thin ice, as we are dangerously extending the field of action and punishment to state authorities following the direction of the Minister of Home Affairs. What guidelines we are now witnessing, and how well we all know. The task of all of us should be to find solutions that will prevent the spread of racist and xenophobic organisations, but not just to sanction them by imposing fines for offences. We should actually do this, that's our job. We are therefore asking the next key question to the proposalr in Levica. Will you support the new defence law proposed by the government of Janez Janša and thus allow security guards to join the military reserve as members of the party? In Levica, in the face of all the threats and dilemmas I have stated, we will not support these bills, nor will we oppose them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u157	The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. We are again considering the twin laws proposed by this time by the Group of Members. Similar proposals have been discussed since the beginning of this year. At the time, in the New Slovenia Group at first reading, we did not object to the conclusion that the laws were suitable for further consideration. In New Slovenia, we cannot agree that the emergence of so-called paramilitary groups, such as guards, is the main reason for the difficult work of the police at our southern border last year and for the deterioration of the living conditions of our people at the southern border. This can serve only as an excuse for assuming the responsibility of the state authorities to ensure the security of our people at the southern border. It is certainly true, however, that the emergence of guards in municipalities along the border and other delicate situations where so-called guards - entering the Presidential Palace, various teaching camps across municipalities, breaking into the police station in Slovenia Bistrica - have aroused unpleasant feelings in people, and many times the feeling that our state authorities are not able to control our southern borders and illegal migrations. Despite police efforts in recent months, the number of illegal migrants has been steadily increasing. But fear of men is real. From June to August 2020, we recorded a 26% increase in illegal border crossings compared to the same period in 2019. Thus, from June to August 2019 we recorded 5 thousand 471 crossings, and from June to August 2020 we recorded 6 thousand 914 crossings. The proportion of illegal migrants returned to Slovenia by the Italian border authorities increased by more than three times from June to August 2020 compared to the same period last year. This data clearly points to increased pressure from illegal migration on our southern border. We probably all agree that the control of the state border cannot be just an organised paramilitary group, the current inspiration of an individual or so - called guard. They only increase their media attention by their actions, which they certainly do not deserve. The problem of irregular migration and pressure on our southern border remains. We agree with the main solutions of the law to prohibit any conduct of an individual or group which, with a view to controlling the state border, is carried out in a manner similar to or similar to the conduct of police duties in the exercise of State border control or which impedes the police in the exercise of this control. Citizens at our southern border certainly deserve safety and normal life like all other citizens of Slovenia, so in New Slovenia we always support the activation of Article 37a of the Defence Act. If the article were activated in time, in our opinion there would be no so-called guards at our southern border. The problem can only be solved by strengthening the work of competent authorities at the border. And I certainly belong to the Slovenian Army. The protection of our citizens and citizens is its main mission. In New Slovenia, we are committed and will also be in the future for such an approach to internal security, which will provide all citizens with a high level of security and thus an adequate quality of life. Members of New Slovenia will support the proposed amendment of the laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Ms Kociper will present the views of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the SAB Group, we have supported all efforts to regulate these areas by law and by law ever since it turned out to be so stated by state prosecutors that illegal and inappropriate activities of so-called guards cannot be prosecuted. The guards, which may sound completely innocent, hide behind them nothing but a paramilitary unit. And what was the role of paramilitary units in history, I think we're all in the clear. A monopoly on what the police are doing and what the military is doing can only be done by the state. And it's unacceptable for a group of men to wear uniforms, wearing blankets that remind themselves of police uniforms and military uniforms and with copies, replicas of weapons scaring people at the state border. In this way, people have very negative feelings, and people are convinced that something strange is happening. Every country, at least a democratic state, has a stable process of what is right and what is wrong. And in democratic countries, anything that is not explicitly prohibited can be allowed. And here it was necessary to explicitly prohibit the operation of guards. Our Group of Members, the SAB Group, had already wanted to support this legislation at the time of the previous government in which we participated, but unfortunately also because of some of the same skeptics as today, this was not possible. We hope this time it'll be different. Every moment we wait for this legislation to be settled, it's too late. These things need to be buried in the toilet. Every normal, democratic free state does this and shows who are who will tell who in one country controls the border and carries out the activities of the military and also the police. The practice, as mentioned above, of the work of state prosecutors, has shown that our authorities do not have the appropriate tools for these activities. Therefore, after all these discussions today, I am so surprised that two parties, the SDS party and the Levica party still do not support the regulation of this area. Finding excuses that the area is not fully regulated is just a search for excuses. The debate that there is already a criminal offence and that law enforcement authorities can already act accordingly indicates a complete lack of knowledge of the criminal procedure. A criminal offence in order to be prosecuted and convicted must be accompanied by evidence of a criminal offence. In this case, crime experts, prosecutors said that the signs of the crime were largely not given. Above all, it is a problem that it is not enough for a crime simply to represent security as an army or police, but must also carry out an official act, which of course has not always been the case in these cases. In addition, certain subjective signs of a crime such as favouritism must be added. There is no way I can understand those who do not support the majority of the members of the National Assembly, so that rejection, which does not belong in any democratic state, is not sanctioned. Only an offence allows for an immediate and painful reaction to such illegal conduct. It also makes it possible to move faster. We know how to commit a crime, what needs to be done, to accuse someone, and then to condemn them. It may be a minor modification of two laws, but in the opinion of the SAB, it is an extremely important symbolic message. A symbolic message that tells us that there is a limit here and that limit does not change. In my opinion, that some of the Members of this House are looking forward to the possibility that it is even useful to help the police, to defend their conduct and to make different excuses, as the Government does, not to regulate this area. We are therefore already in the SAB Group, and we are now in favour of this arrangement, and we thank all Members, who, however relatively quickly, have gathered enough strength and wisdom to make a point in such inadmissible actions immediately. In the SAB Group, we will support both laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The modern theoretical base of the concept of the State is contained in the definition of the country as a monopoly on the legitimate use of force. In modern countries, the right of the State and its authorities to use force is regulated by law. Repression is a legal possibility for the State and its authorities to use the means of coercion to maintain regulation and general order. This legal option cannot, under any circumstances, go into the hands of spontaneously organised groups of citizens. In the Desus Group, we believe that it is the imperative of the State to monitor the functioning of self-organised groups and, above all, to sanction them. Slovenia is not in a state of war and is not militarily threatened. Its security is ensured through the implementation of security and defence tasks through the Police, the Slovenian Armed Forces and the Directorate for Protection and Rescue with its professional and voluntary units. Managing or not managing migration flows is a particularly fruitful area for manifesting the lowest political impulses, incentives and impulses because it produces disease exclusiveism, alienation and imprisonment in its own social camp. Anti-civilization thinking is fueled by such types of traumas and try to keep them in the status of their special political asylum. For them, everything else that is unacceptable is allowed in Slovenian silence: extreme nationalism, life by military tribal codes, civil awareness. Is there a cure for that? Maybe. Justice should be unrelentingly sanctioning incidents that are benevolently tolerated in the false belief that the matter is of a transitional nature and will disappear on its own. The country should intervene with socio-psychological post-traumatic programmes aimed at transforming tribal isolation mentality into civic mentality. But the country is a very passive mechanism, which gently observes how ultra-nationalist enclaves live in their psycho-political confusion and experience their frustrations. Such experiences are most evident by expressing swinging living standards to good and bad. To what's right and what's wrong. When I talk about the role of the country, events, especially those in Slovenia Bistrica, may also bring some benefits. Especially in terms of public knowledge of the calculating indifference and negligence of police bureaucracy. Those bureaucrats that have legitimate and positional power of decision-making and command. But she did nothing but establish a lazy compromise with hidden violence. This may also be a kind of shock therapy, especially in terms of catharsis, that it has come to an end to police deception as a control mechanism of the state. Ladies and gentlemen! Functional democracy is never spontaneous. She's always in control. It has certain frameworks and limitations, so the country has to react. The trend described above cannot be expected to dissipate from itself by ignoring it and not attributable to it. Members of the Desus Group have supported both legislative additions in the past. Our position remains the same. We support legislative additions in a way that will allow for more decisive action against the challenging behaviour of individuals, so we will vote unitedly in favour of supplementing the Law on State Border Control and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u163	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments have been tabled to the amended Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace. However, no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law on amendments to the Law on State Border Control. However, the amendments to the final provision were not tabled. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The decision on the draft laws will be made today in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly in the framework of the votes, which is half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. I hereby terminate agenda items 15 and 16. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the State Council within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was submitted to the Council of State for consideration. At its 19th meeting, on 2 September 2020, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the draft law as the working body. As the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. The draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Council had a background to the decision of the Constitutional Court of 29. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It follows from this decision that the anti-constitutional regime on active legitimacy for the lodging of legal protection and the entire legal system of both the appeal procedure before the Council of State and the appeal procedure before the Constitutional Court. In view of the findings of the Constitutional Court, the regulation is so weak and indeterminate that it makes it significantly difficult or impossible to exercise effectively the right to legal protection provided for in Article 25 of the Constitution and the right to judicial protection provided for in Article 23 of the Constitution. In the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not solve the relevant problems it addressed. Although part of it might have been able to get rid of it, other problems might have arisen. As a result, it has been identified as negative against this law and therefore has not received any support at the working body meeting. Its text was virtually unanimously rejected in full and the procedure was thus terminated. Of course, we expect an appropriate solution as soon as possible, because the Constitutional Court decision remains, and this needs to be settled. If the right to a remedy or the right to a judicial remedy is not adequately resolved, then we cannot discuss legal certainty. This raises the question of any electoral right, both active and passive, even as in the case of the State Council, when part of the election takes place after the indirect electoral system.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u166	Thank you, again for your word. In November 2018, the Constitutional Court decided that Article 50 of the Law on the State Council was inconsistent with the Constitution, since the remedy, a complaint against the decision of the State Council not to confirm the mandate of a member of the State Council, was reserved only to an elected candidate whose mandate had not been confirmed. The Constitutional Court has established that, pending a different legal arrangement, a complaint against a decision taken by the Council of State in the procedure for the confirmation of the terms of office of members of the Council of State may be lodged by each candidate and candidate and that the constitutionality found must be abolished within one year of the publication of this Decision in the Official Journal. In accordance with its powers under the legislative procedure, the Council resubmitted the amendment to the Law on the State Council with the aim of eliminating the found non-compliance with the Constitution with the proposed amendments and additions. In preparing the amendment to the Law on the National Council, the applicant considers that they have taken due account of the comments, warnings and recommendations of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and explain why some of the recommendations have not been taken into account. This was also the case with the second opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. Despite the fact that the Constitutional Court has set a deadline for the elimination of the found unconstitutionality, another attempt on the part of the State Council has failed. On the basis of the opinion of the National Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government on the working body, the proposal did not receive sufficient support. But there is a problem. It is therefore also important to draw attention to the Government's opinion on how to resolve this problem, namely that the electoral dispute must be settled. All the time, they note that the electoral dispute must be properly and comprehensively settled for all elections and also take into account the specifics. The Government should therefore draw up legislation as soon as possible to fully regulate the unconstitutionality found. In front of the door are the elections of the state councillor, which can soon be followed by other elections, such as the early elections to the National Assembly. The year turns quickly, and so also in 2022, the year of triple elections, is no longer as far as regular national elections, local elections and presidential elections will take place. With two attempts by the State Council, we have found that partial regulation of this problem is not appropriate. We therefore expect the Government to draw up appropriate solutions to follow both the Constitutional Court and the Legislative and Legal Service. Given the need to ensure a constitutional majority under at least two laws, we expect the Government to pre-check the content in the parliamentary groups and, last but not least, to check its support for the whole unification of the electoral dispute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u168	During this term or even this calendar year, the National Assembly has already met for the second time with the amendment of the Law on the State Council, prepared by the same candidate – the Council of State. And it has the same or similar content, which concerns the regulation of an election dispute for the election of state councillors. It is clear that this time the State Council is in a hurry. In August, the President of the National Assembly issued a decree on the call for elections to be held in the State Council, which will take place in October, i.e. in one, six constituencies. Notwithstanding this fact, we would like to point out in the SMC that the Council of State has already tabled an amendment during the previous government, but we rejected it this January because of the imperfection of the solution and because of the lack of consistency. While the Council of State is counting on it to be more successful this time, it is intended to take into account the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service in the paper, as well as the comments addressed to it in the debate at the time of its consideration in January. This time, therefore, the bill substantially changes the concept of an electoral dispute in a way that eliminates the previous electoral dispute and provides for a two-step decision in a subsequent electoral dispute, namely the appointment of two electoral judges at the first stage of the Supreme Court and, as an appellate body, the Constitutional Court. However, legal protection was also given to irregularities in the conduct of the electoral commissions themselves. Both from the opinion of the Government and from the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, it is clear that the proposer did not have a happy time in his re-trial and that the proposed solutions create new legal and legal system-wide disputes. In the SMC Group, we do not agree with the position of the State Council that it is impossible for a uniform system to settle an election dispute for all local elections, as well as elections to the National Assembly and elections to the State Council. We have always advocated the very position that the electoral dispute must be settled in a uniform manner for the election of all officials at both national and local level. In this regard, I would also like to draw attention to the final decision of the Constitutional Court on the non-constitutionality of the resolution of the electoral dispute in the Local Elections Act. In addition, the Government had already warned the State Council in January that it had prepared a draft amendment to the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative and had fully addressed the issue of the referendum dispute. We therefore expected that the candidates from the government, or at least from the Ministry of Field Affairs, would be interested in the proposed concept of the law and would consult on solutions that would be adapted precisely to those electoral procedures specific to the indirect elections and to the nomination of representatives of the interest groups. As was able to be heard in the debate on the working body, the Council of State has also decided this time that it does not need cooperation or consultation with the said stakeholders and has drawn up solutions that none of the members of the Committee have supported. We Members were therefore united that the proposal of the State Council in the proposed form, as well as the amendments they had prepared for the second reading, was not suitable for further consideration. In the SMC Group, we expect the Council of State to listen to those comments at least in the third and to cooperate with the Government in the creation of the novel. As regards the state councillor's announced elections on the basis of a law that is unconstitutional in the part of the elections and the electoral dispute, we note that it is possible to conclude from the elections held so far that the local interests of the so-called electoral disputes are the least, so it cannot be expected that these alternative elections can be challenged because of the fact that the legislator of the latter has not yet abolished the anti-constitution. On the basis of the above arguments, we did not support this bill in the SMC Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u169	The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. With the proposed amendment to the State Council Act, which is proposed by the Council of State, it is intended to fully regulate both the preliminary and the subsequent election choices for elections to the Council of State. In this regard, the law on elections to the National Assembly should no longer apply in the future. The Council of State also sought to implement the Constitutional Court’s decision by means of a proposal for a law, thus eliminating the constitutional contradictions established by the Constitutional Court. In our view, the proposed solutions to the electoral dispute are, in principle, acceptable. I am referring mainly to the previous election dispute here. With regard to the subsequent electoral dispute, however, we believe that the proposed solution is non-systemic. In Novi Slovenija we believe that an expert debate on the regulation of the area of electoral dispute should be opened. This debate is expected at the initiative of the Ministry of Field Affairs, which will involve the professional public and stakeholders. We are convinced that this area must be regulated so that all elections, elections to the National Assembly, the Council of State and elections to the European Parliament and local elections can be properly and uniformly applied. However, the specificity of individual elections should certainly be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u172	Dear President, fellow Members, fellow Members! The State Council has re- tabled in the legislative procedure the Proposal for a Law on the State Council. It takes two-thirds of the votes of all Members to adopt this law, as this is a very important topic. The right to vote is constitutional matter and its protection is provided for in Article 43 of the Constitution. The aim of the proposal is once again to regulate the electoral process in the Council of State in order to eliminate the unconstitutionality established by the Constitutional Court in 2018. It has ruled that Article 50 is contrary to the Constitution because the complaint against the decision of the Council of State not to approve the mandate has been denied to the candidate whose mandate has been rejected. The motion also significantly changed the whole concept of the electoral dispute, namely the abolition of the previous electoral dispute, and in the subsequent electoral dispute, two electoral judges, the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court as the appellate body. The fact is that the area of the electoral dispute is an extremely difficult subject and serious and thorough reflection is needed in changing the regime. The legislative and legal service has once again given a very broad opinion, despite the applicant's comments that they have taken most of their comments into account. Among other things, the Legislative and Legal Service points out that questions remain open regarding the constitutional dispute between the proposed articles. It follows from the Constitutional Court's decision that the regime is primarily applicable to elections to the National Assembly, that it is not just a constitutional dispute over the electoral dispute in the State Council. It is precisely for this reason that it is totally inappropriate for the resolution of the electoral dispute to be regulated at the level of the State Council Act. We cannot solve such an important problem in a partial way without the involvement of other stakeholders and legal professionals in this area. While it is true that the arrangements for the elections of state councilors are slightly different from those of the National Assembly, the individual derogations must be exceptional and justified. In its opinion, the Government also noted that there were significant shortcomings and concluded that the proposal was not suitable for further consideration. Legal protection regarding irregularities in the conduct of electoral commissions is not sufficiently clearly regulated. They advocate a unified resolution of the electoral dispute in all the electoral regimes, taking into account the specifics of individual systems. In view of the shortcomings contained in the proposal for a law, which has been pointed out by both the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government, we do not support this proposal in the SAB Group, and we also voted against it at the Committee's meeting. We agree, however, that this area needs to be addressed urgently. Finally, the deadline for the abolition of the anti-constitution has already expired, with the general public being also involved in creating quality solutions that will not cause problems in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u173	Thank you. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Council of State has been introduced into the Slovenian parliamentary regime as an adjustment to the general representation. It is intended to express a social structure which cannot be taken into account in the general representation. However, the theoretical justification for correcting the general representation cannot take into account neither the principle of the quality of representation nor the actual structure of the company. National Councillors and Councillors are expected to present corrections in both directions, but in any case only corrective. Disregarding this fact means blocking our eyes against realities, which must certainly be taken into account. At the end of 2018, the Constitutional Court decided that the provisions of the Law on the State Council relating to the approval of the mandates of state councilors were unconstitutional. This is Article 50 of the Act, which allows the decision of the State Council not to confirm the mandate of the elected candidate to be contested, but which can only appeal to the Constitutional Court. Therefore, the provision does not allow an appeal to be lodged to other candidates or candidates for a state councillor. On the basis of the finding of unconstitutionality, the Council of State has drawn up a proposal for amendments that, according to him, would eliminate this unconstitutionality. The Novela refers to the resolution of the electoral dispute, and its whole concept is changed, which is regulated entirely in a new and independent way, but only for elections to the State Council. State councillors are elected in indirect elections, elected in appropriate chambers, associations, associations, societies, universities, trade unions and local communities. They are loved by the representative body of the community they represent. However, if there are more of these professional or local communities, they are chosen by a body made of electors, these are those chosen to choose between candidates for saints. In theory, indirect elections are more suitable for the representation of special interests, whether local or functional, because in this case there are also more possibilities for lasting influence of those who elect a saint on his functioning in the State Council. The Councillor is obliged in the world to represent special professional or local interests, and therefore his attitude towards the electorate is different from that of the Member State and the constituency or electoral unit. Members of the Desus Group defend the view that anti-constitution must be abolished. The right to vote in modern democratic regimes is one of the fundamental political rights of citizens at constitutional level. The regulation of electoral law and its protection cannot therefore be dealt with in part and incompletely, as proposed by the State Council, but should be fully pursued for all types of elections. We do not doubt the seriousness and well-intention of the proposer of the approach to the drafting of the legislative rules on the electoral dispute, but note that he did not intervene with his legislative initiative in the essential reason for initiating each time the election disputes in the State Council. This is the concept of selective voting with all its main weaknesses, ambiguity, inequality and permissibility of any decision. The question of the legitimacy of elections in the State Council is thus repeatedly raised and is indisputably linked to the perspectives of Slovenian parliamentary bi-domainship. The practice of modern democracy speaks for the sake of double-dwelling. The two-party Parliament is, taking into account all the dimensions of political decision-making, a more democratic institutional form than a single-house Parliament. Ambiguity, however, makes sense if the first and second homes have a different institutional basis and a different order of action. The second home is not a competition for the first home and does not mean a confrontation with the first home, but rather a complement. In Slovenia, a system of incomplete double-dwelling is constitutionally established and legal bi-dwelling is disputed in a certain part. The dispute is where, in a similar, party-constituted way, it duplicates the structure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u175	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 20th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 3 p.m. and 20 minutes. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 2.47 p.m. and resumed at 3.20 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u176	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. I inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 14, 12, 13, 9, 15, 16 and 1 item of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 14th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. 2020. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 1(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to the same Article under number 2 shall become irrelevant. On behalf of the Group of Members, there is an explanation for the vote of Comrade Primož Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Good-bye! Our amendment answers the key question that this law leaves open, this law, which is not written so badly, why as a society we would allow inequality in relation to workers — employer or employer — to be translated into inequality in the relationship between the state — citizen or state — parents, children. When we talk about contributions, about parental protection, we urgently need to talk about the broader context of demographics, which has also taken place on a day-to-day basis in the debate of Members. The fact is that the exercise of this right under an established law, where minimum wages are taken as a dose of the contribution rate, is rarely decided because it simply cannot afford it. That's the key problem. Because it's hard to decide for a family at all if you're on some minimum wage, if you don't have a chance to live, if you deserve seven hundred euros. I think that everything is clear to us, which is why it is so crucial that family policy must be based on social criteria, not on some kind of nativity, which is purely and only numerical, but must be reflected in the creation of the environment, so that people will even want to enter the family path. Therefore, our amendment to this law, which says that we should base our assessment of the contribution rate on not the minimum wage, as is now the case, not in the way proposed by the proposer himself, therefore proportionally, more than you deserve, more belongs to you, but in solidarity with the average gross wage in the Republic of Slovenia. In this way, we will raise the contributions paid to those who make the most difficult decisions for their children for the family because they cannot afford it because they possibly deserve the least. Others do not have this problem, and the solution is a reflection of a solidarity society, which should be sought at the final stage of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u178	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 46. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 1 to Article 2. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus parliamentary groups for a new address and a new Article 1a under number 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Left Group becomes a new title and the new Article 1a becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 82 Members present, 71 votes against 1. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSi and Desus sent groups for a new address and a new Article 1a under number 1 was adopted, the amendment of the Levica Group for a new title and the new Article 1a under number 2 became irrelevant. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. The wording of the draft law for the third reading will be prepared by the services of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. 2020. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 1. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to Article 4 becomes irrelevant, since the amendments are substantively linked. Comrade Miha Kordish, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u179	Thank you for your word, chairman. Pension law in Slovenia is very confusing. It contains more than 400 provisions. Not surprisingly, then, every time it is accepted, it creates new and new injustices. We correct some of these wrongs by means of today’s law, and we leave many of the wrongs outside. Therefore, in Levica, we submitted to the law on pension and disability insurance an amendment that solves the injustice committed to a group of insured persons. I'm talking about a group of insurers who, as self-payers themselves, paid the pension age, but then the pension law changed and their payments were ignored by the state. They didn't get the treatment they expected for what they were paying for. They couldn't retire normally. I am talking about those insurers who also paid after 1 January 2013, when the possibility of their payments to buy up time has changed, but the State has not informed them of these changes anywhere and has not informed them in any way. In short, people were expecting to retire normally, even though they were unemployed, even though they were on the verge of survival, they said: "No, at this point we will not sacrifice our pension. We better stick to our mouths now and get this time and retire normally." But, look at the fraction of it, because they were not informed that such legislation no longer applied, their means fell to nothing. Imagine you gave money for social security, for safe age, and then the state told you it wouldn't let you do it. Guilty. With this amendment in Levica, we are correcting this injustice and allowing all those who have paid for this period to belong to them and to be able to retire normally. Under these amended and amended provisions, the Pension and Disability Insurance Office must re-examine these pensions for these groups of insurers and correct them. I hope that we will have support for this amendment in the next moment's vote. This support was announced by the SDS at the previous meeting, today we could also hear it from the SD, another Member to the debate, so I think that with the lack of political will we can find a solution to the injustice against this group of insurers, as said, it is mostly for some unemployed people who have paid their pension insurance despite unemployment, to eliminate them and to allow them a safer age.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u180	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 46. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment by the Left Group to Article 1 has not been adopted, the amendment to Article 4 has become irrelevant. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the supplementary proposal of the law has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Comrade Miha Kordish, explanation of vote on behalf of the left-wing group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u181	Thank you for your word, chairman. There is no free lunch, the representatives of the political class like to say, in particular representatives from the current largest political party SDS. But how can we define the lunch you paid for and you didn't get it? Exactly this is the injustice that has occurred to a group of pensioners who, as self-payers, have been placed in the pension register, and then the state has told them that they have not been granted these payments and cannot go to a normal retirement as they imagined and as the legislation had before. Guilty as charged. Great. The previous reading indicated that the vote for this amendment would suffice. From the opposite parliamentary benches, on the right hand side it could be heard, even as their Member came to us, Levici, and said that we have the support of the right side of Parliament for the elimination of this injustice. What happened a few seconds ago? Why, ladies and gentlemen, will you let the pensioners in this or those groups continue to suffer injustice? They could not retire, as they imagined, their pensions were not in the amount they were paying for. That's absolutely unacceptable. In June, with these changes to the law, SDS took one step towards the elimination of the injustices that it itself caused a few years ago, apparently remained at the halfway point. Why they decided to deal with and correct certain injustices and where else they would suffer further, that is, to me, an absolute stranger. We are standing in the very opposite position in Levica. The blame on people needs to be removed, there is no way to create new ones, especially where fundamental social security is concerned and the basic expectations that people have for the social state. And especially in the area of the pension system, where people were able to retire normally, they bought from their own pocket when they were unemployed when they had no money. And you ladies and gentlemen said to them today, "No. You gave money for your pension, but the pension you paid for, you're not getting it. If not already in money in recognition, when can one wave to the glory of an active working life and go to a well-deserved retirement.” This injustice will obviously continue during another government, after the next elections, where we may find enough political will to actually help pensioners because people need to be helped, not because [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u182	We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the suspension of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 76 votes against 1. (The vote was 76.)(against 1.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Drivers Act in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. (The vote was 76.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. On behalf of the parliamentary group, a colleague, Rudi Medved, has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. When a paramilitary group practically ambushes the police when harassing citizens, they are legitimate when terrorising foreign tourists around camps, all the alarms in the country should ring. What are they? They're not. The Minister of the Interior reacted so shyly to the events in Slovenian Bistrica and as late as he actually did the current business. The government of Marjan Šarc reacted quickly to minor excesses by amending laws, which unfortunately did not see the light of the world in the National Assembly. Today we are correcting this mistake. Today we are correcting this mistake. Why? Because you just have to say that's enough. That there's enough and there's a limit. There is no room for such extremism in a democratic country. And also because there are ideas, the possibility that members of such paramilitary groups will eventually be able to find themselves in the Slovenian Army reserve because the Defence Minister has nothing to do with it. The laws of the National Assembly also indicate that we are rightly alert. That is why, of course, we will support the proposed amendments to the laws in the List of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Grimes, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u185	Thank you for your word. The law is unnecessary. Everything that has been said and mentioned here has already been sanctioned by existing legislation. It needs to be implemented and is therefore primarily the responsibility of the police to carry out these tasks. If the police did the right thing, there wouldn't be a story with the station either. Obstruction by the police is already a criminal offence under existing legislation. In addition, the law is wrongly targeted. What we witnessed is actually a performance. This is sanctioned by the Law on Public Order and Peace, as well as criminal law in certain parts. What needs to be pursued is actual violence. Today, he is a carrier of violence in the entire world of Antifa. So, if someone were to take the anti-Antifi Act, that's not what today is. That is to say, real violence needs to be pursued and the danger detected where it is at stake. Unfortunately, this debate, which has been here today and also in the past weeks during the first discussions, reflects that we are rarely aware of what is going on in the current world. Because the law is unnecessary, because, once again, I stress, everything which is sanctioning is sanctioned by the existing legislation, which has been evident from the fictitious presentation, the unauthorised wearing of police to the obstruction of its work and so on, all of this is sanctioned by the existing legislation. Only consistent respect for the rule of law is required. This is the task of law enforcement authorities and all others involved in these proceedings. We're not going to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Ms Kociper's colleague on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u187	In the SAB Group, we have advocated from the very beginning that this area should be regulated so that the guards, these paramilitary units, will no longer be able to patrol our borders, present themselves as police officers, wear fake uniforms and false weapons. We have advocated this in the time of the government of Marjan Šarc and we are also now defending it. It is unacceptable that some of you are deceiving that the current legislation allows for the sanctioning of guards. It doesn't allow it. That's what the experts on criminal proceedings, the state's attorneys said. A criminal offence which has one or more advantages before the offence has certain signs of a crime without which the offence is not committed, and these signs are not given to them. It is said that they cannot now be punished by the Criminal Procedure Act in the manner they carry out their activities. I'd ask you to stop deceiving people. This is an important symbolic question. Whether as a democratic state we react immediately to such excesses, which are not appropriate in a free society or not. I understand that in this House we are different in how to solve the crisis, how to solve economic issues and so on. But I don't understand that we can't agree that these guys are in fake uniforms with fake guns pretending to be cops and soldiers, something unacceptable. And here, not for the first time, unfortunately, the extreme left and extreme right found themselves back on the same shore. In the SAB Group, we will certainly support both laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? On behalf of the Group of Members, colleague Baković.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u189	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. The novelties that we have tabled by the Social Democrats are addressing the real issue, and the police will be able to carry out their tasks as well. So far, the Minister, Mr Aleš Hojs, who said there was a need to amend the legislation, made that clear. Perhaps our opinions differ only in that we assess that the matter will be effective, and he would systematically arrange it in some other way. But still. Once again, I stress the key features and facts of why we will support these two laws. It is a matter of fact that, despite the fact that certain crimes are being abolished, I must state here that this is not true. Criminal acts remain all and in the form that they have already been prescribed. But there was some kind of emptiness. The prosecution has only said that certain acts cannot be defined as criminal acts. The event that took place in Slovenska Bistrica cannot be defined as a crime. Finally, Minister Hojs also stated in response to the interpretation that they did not detect a violation of public order and peace in this case. You can read that in your answer. The offences are for themselves and the acts carried out by the paramilitary groups so far do not constitute elements indicating the existence of a criminal offence. However, if there had been, and there would have been a division or coverage of the area both after the offence and under criminal law, first, it provided for the Offences Act to deal with the offence, at which time the limitation periods for the offence were not counted, and only then the infringement proceedings were instituted. This happens a lot. This happens, for example, in a violation of a fight where we can have bad conduct, where we can have light injuries, which is a crime, and we can have a purely normal fight under the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace. If we find that this is a crime, then the crime is first dealt with, and in the next segment the offence is also dealt with. The same is true of vandalism. Vandalism has signs of a criminal offence injuring other people's property. If it's not a crime, it's a crime. However, the crime always has an advantage, and here we really have to pour pure wine. I would suggest that those who do not understand this, consult with legal experts, consult with judges who deal with offences, and consult with prosecutors, and you will see that I am right. We will support this law and ask for the support of everyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Janja Servant on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The debate on this subject itself has had a beard for quite some time. One red thread of these discussions all the time is that someone is constantly trying to prove to us that there is already a basis for action. It's been happening all along. I am pleased, however, that now the current minister has finally found out, and also in his statements, he has said and acknowledged that these uneven police action and non-sanctioning of such events also mean that there is no basis for this. We have already supported both laws in the previous procedures of the same legislation and will support them today. Of course, it is high time to take action against such organised or slightly less organised groups. We do not have any doubts that on the other hand we could also unduly use the dictatorship of this law for groups wearing uniforms for some other reason. We have already made this clear in our position. Some of you have also expressed concerns that this dictatorship may also be lacking, but we say, let us try, very soon it will be seen if this dictatorship is appropriate now, if action is appropriate. We can certainly continue to correct this if this seems necessary. For once, however, it seems that the matter, as it is set, is also true. We expect that it will act in a uniform manner and that this zero tolerance for such groups will finally manifest itself. We'll support it in SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Micah Kordish, in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u193	Thank you for your word, chairman. Yesterday, media and social networks circled the news, equipped with graphic material, a photograph of police entraping a teenage girl. There were two or three of them, there were three cops. Why? Because she went on a bus without a mask. Ladies and gentlemen, are you really trying to convince me, us, and the Slovenian public that the police can lock up a minor because she went on a bus without a mask, but she can't do the same for 50 uniforms who have a siege? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u194	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u195	the police station at the border. [[…]] This case is eloquent enough to bear witness that there are grounds for action in our country, that where it really gets stuck, it is not that the police would not be able to lock up guards with their pens and cuffs and eventually put them behind bars, but rather that they are not willing to act. That is why we will not support this law in Leviac, but we will not really oppose it. And I'll tell you why. Since there is a much greater risk of misdemeanors being reclassified from crime to crime, it is said that guards get the checkers instead of going to jail, what will be adopted in the next week is the law on defence. In the voluntary composition, membership in political parties is legalized, which means that the guards can take off their fake uniforms, put their airsoft rifles down, and the authorities will expose them to the uniforms of the Slovenian Army and hand over their weapons with sharp ammunition. This law requires a two-thirds majority. We are running out of votes from today's proponents of Slovenian Democrats. Our abstention vote is your time to join us in objecting to the full legalisation and inclusion of guards in the Slovenian Army's reserve capacity. And that's what we're hoping for. This is where the guards really stop.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u196	Thank you very much. My friend Baković, in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I'm glad the Left has changed her mind, and this time she won't object, but she will abstain. I must say that I will personally support this law for the reasons I have already stated in the position of the Group of Members. However, I must also respond to the climate currently emerging in the National Assembly and say once again that it is not a populist measure that we have problems, a fact that will be advocated by all lawyers, is that we simply cannot act by existing legislation. If I read only the Minister's reply that, in the event of the event at the station of Slovenska Bistrica, the police investigated the suspicion of the crime services, the participation in the group which prevented the official act to the official person, but the competent District Attorney's Office in Maribor determined that in this case it was not a crime. The police reported to the prosecutor, but no violations of public order and peace and the general security of people and property were detected. However, 17 payment orders have been issued during a period of time for breach of Article 7 of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, which relates to misconduct or non-compliance with the order. [[Incomprehensible]] So some things they've done, but they can't handle the system thing. Therefore, honourable colleagues and colleagues, I will support these two novels and I believe that the situation in this area will also improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u198	Thank you. A colleague of Matthew the Widow, in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u199	Slovenia does not need paramilitary and paramilitary units, so I will be happy to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-24-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u200	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on State Border Control under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the proposals made by Members and Members for a debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers of 22 September, which is published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question of the Magi. Andrey Reich's medical system. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 47. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question of the victory of Jelinčič Trimenite concerning the status of immigrants from third countries. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 59. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 59.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question by Lidija Dijak Mirnik on health measures and current information on waiting periods. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 48. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Magi space. Andrej Visiak to the question of the mission of Primoš Siter in relation to the resolution of the pollution of the Central Soča Valley due to the co-incineration of waste at the Salonit Anhovo cement plant. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 48. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Magi space. Andrej Visiak on the question of the mission of Lidija Dijak Mirnik concerning the work of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for the environment and space. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 48. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Magi space. Andrej Visiak to the question of Bosniak Koražija regarding the promotion of urban agriculture, in particular urban gardens. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 48. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Liljane Kozlovich to the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 48. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar and Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Cigler King to the question of the mission of Primož Siter regarding the strategy of establishing red, grey and white zones in order to prevent the spread of infections with a new coronavirus within the home for the elderly. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 47. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac, to the question of Maša Kociper, on the issue of free local transport. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 48. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar to the question of Mr Jani Ivanuše on alleged corruption and non-economic behaviour at the Maribor University Clinical Centre. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 47. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Defence of Magi. Mr Matej Tonin asked the question of Mr Mate T. Vatovec concerning the procedure for examining the draft law on the provision of funds for investments in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021-2026 in the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 48. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Boštjan Koritnik, to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš, on the public accessibility of the certification of his own-time signature for the purposes of exercising the constitutionally guaranteed democratic rights throughout the country and within the administrative unit of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 48. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Health Minister Tomaž Gantar to Mark Bandelli's question on covid-19 vaccine. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. 35 votes against 48. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovec, to the question of Mr Dusan Šiška, on the proposal for a Public Fund Act to finance the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. 24 votes against 46. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Boštjan Koritnik, to the question of Bosniak Koražija on co-financing the investment projects of municipalities by the state budget. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. 35 votes against 48. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Health Minister Tomaž Gantar to the question of Mr Preil's mission regarding the performance of the ministerial function and the measures and the health situation. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. 35 votes against 48. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Health Minister Tomaž Gantar to Violet Tomić's question on the non-treatment of other diseases during the COVID-19 epidemic. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. 35 votes against 48. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec Lipicer, to the question of Mr Željk Cigler, on the provision of spatial and human resources conditions for the implementation of statutory compulsory primary education in the school year 2020-2021. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. 35 votes against 48. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Infrastructure, Mr Jerne Vrtovac, and the Minister without a portfolio responsible for development and European cohesion policy, Mr Zvonka Černač, to the question of the question of the question of the question of revitalisation of the Bohinj railway. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. 34 votes against 48. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac, and the Minister of Environment and Magi. Andrej Visiak on the question of the mission of Željk Cigler concerning construction on the 3rd development axis and on the Velenje south section – Slovenj Gradec south. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. 30 votes to 49. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs to Mark Bandelli's question on illegal migration. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. There were 26 votes against 54. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, to the question of Mr Violeta Tomić, on the threat to the artistic activities of internationally recognised creators, Emma Kugler. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 48. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of the Minister without a pillar responsible for development and European cohesion policy, Zvonka Černač, to the question of the delegation of Lidija Dijak Mirnik concerning the European funds negotiated. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 47. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac, to the question of mag. Andrea Reich related to free tickets for integrated public passenger transport. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 48. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 20th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
