ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 52nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, Article 60, paragraph 2, and Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and on the basis of a decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly adopted at its 86th meeting. 12. 2020. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Iva Dimic from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m., Franc Rosec, Dr. Franc Duck, just Bevk and Franz Kramar. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the participation in a meeting outside the meeting of the National Assembly was announced by the Members of the Magi using an application for a distance meeting. Carmen Furman and Eva Irgle. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! In accordance with the second and fourth paragraphs of Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the agenda for the sitting of the National Assembly shall be decided by the College of Presidents of the National Assembly by reference and shall not be voted on. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is the third defensively proposed law on the financial burden of municipalities within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Boštjan Koritnik, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u2	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Today is the conclusion of a long, really long legislative proposal that will bring great relief to the municipalities in carrying out their tasks and responsibilities, not only in these unpredictable times of the epidemic, but in the long term. The preparation of the proposal before you in the third reading started at the end of 2018, took place all year 2019 and expected consideration in 2020 in this prized assembly. Two governments contributed to the results of this long-term project, involving 7 ministries, two government services and a health and pension and disability insurance institution. From the very beginning, all three representative associations of the municipalities also actively participated. And we can say a little indiscreetly that it was almost an All-Slovenian project. The aim of the project was, on the one hand, to reduce the costs of municipalities, their administrative burdens, and, of course, to regulate in the long term what the State has been doing in some way inappropriately over the years, to impose on the municipalities tasks and not to provide them with funds. I have already pointed out in my preliminary examinations that the starting points for the preparation of this proposal were the proposals of representative associations of municipalities that proposed a review of 61 rules. In a narrower selection there are 25 left, and half of these are covered by the bill you are considering today. They are either in the process of negotiating or waiting for a dialogue between the government and the municipalities. This is precisely what the interinstitutional dialogue between the two complementary authorities, between the government and the municipalities, is the added value of this proposal, this project at its final stage. The determination and patience to make decisions that are still acceptable to both sides were the property of negotiators. At many meetings, they sought common solutions. Their work can be a model for us. The solutions proposed so far have, after all, been almost plebiscite-based. The Law on the Financial Depreciation of Municipalities, ZFRO, interferes with 12 regional laws. Let me also remind you of the concrete solutions it brings. The original proposal for a law was laid down by the Government in December 2019 and this intervention in 9 sectoral laws. The proposal brings together a total effect of €31 million, i.e. the payment of compulsory health insurance for children up to the age of 18 who are educated and are not insured as family members for unemployed persons of the Republic of Slovenia and foreigners who are granted the right to social assistance. All of this is taken over by the State instead of by the municipalities. The cost of municipalities is reduced to 19 million and a half. The funding of a family assistant is also taken over by the State - reducing the costs of municipalities by €7.9 million. The funding of the mortuary transparent service is transferred from the municipalities to the country - a reduction of the costs of EUR 3 million. The production of land use certificates will also be paid for notaries, but also a fee for a certificate of conditions for changing the land boundary and an administrative fee for local information will be raised, which will henceforth also be payable for notaries, thus increasing the revenue of municipalities by an estimated quarter of a million euros. The municipality will be able to adopt a multi-annual adult education programme, which is an administrative burden. In addition, when the proposal is being considered, the Coalition Members have reached an additional burden on the municipal budgets in November 2020 by interfering with three additional amendments. This brings an additional €39 million. It is the co-financing of municipalities with Roma people, which is 6.05 million euros gradually over four years. Simplification of the short-term indebtedness of municipalities by inclusion in a single treasury account, the establishment of resources to balance the development of municipalities at 6% of the eligible consumption, which is an additional EUR 25.9 million in 2021, a total of €77 million annually. Funding for non-profit rent subsidies to applicants is fully provided by the State, which is running out of costs for municipalities for EUR 5.5 million. The State assumes the obligation to pay for accident insurance, liability insurance and legal protection for firefighting services, reducing the costs of municipalities by EUR 1.9 million. The total financial impact of the ZFRO and the amendments will therefore be more than €70 million annually. Dear Members and Members, by signing an agreement with the Assembly on the average for 2021 and 2022 to 628.2 euros, which will only be signed four times in the last 15 years, we have shown as a government that we care more about local self-governments than we do with the proposed law. I will be pleased that you will support the proposed regulation, which brings a significant shift in the fiscal autonomy of Slovenian municipalities today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u4	Hello, everyone! We will support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian National Party because it enjoys the broad support of local communities, municipalities, representative associations. More appropriate conditions for the operation and development of municipalities are being established, as the latter will be at a better level for a good €70 million at the annual level. On the one hand, it is a step in the right direction to correct certain shortcomings and anomalies that have so far burdened municipal budgets. In this account, resources for various investments in infrastructure and other measures to improve the quality of life of citizens and citizens have been reduced. On the other hand, the government is expected to reduce the costs of municipalities and the cost reduction is still low in terms of manca. The average level is still insufficient, although the Act on the provision of additional liquidity for the economy to mitigate the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic has entered into force on 1 May, which in Article 32 changes the average to 623,96 euros. In the Slovenian National Party, we expected a much more specific transfer of powers from municipalities to the State or Republic of Slovenia, precisely because of the complex matter and the root interference in 12 sectoral laws. It is true that there is a financial burden on the municipalities, but at the same time there is an additional financial burden on the population. It does not seem right to raise the administrative fee for location information from 22.70 to 35 euros. Much will also be done for firefighters, where the Republic of Slovenia will finance unsafe insurance, liability insurance and legal protection. The additional tasks of the Ministry of Health will require the recruitment of a new staff member, a public servant with an annual cost of EUR 28 000 300. I hope that the Aliens Act will come to the House of Democracy soon too, because what is happening now is that with one medical card they came to the doctor for the whole family, it is really absurd. If they come to us, let them work here, not bring their wife with them, a bunch of kids who enjoy money and social assistance and other social transfers. We must first stand for our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The problem is also the Roma, who are already going to the mayor and asking for money, if the state is already earmarking funds for them and they are not getting anything or should get more. The Office spends €650,000 per year on quasi activities to improve the situation of the Roma community, and money is actually flowing in the pockets of certain individuals. Nearly €260,000 of this is allocated for 15 minutes on Radiotelevision Slovenia, and the situation on the ground is catastrophic. That is why money should be spent on infrastructure. As I said at the outset, we will support the law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Ferenc Horváth will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Tishtet Hölgyim és Uraim, mindenkit juice sherettel köszöntök! Un cordiale saluto and tutti! In the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, we support the proposal for a law on the financial burden of municipalities, as it reduces the costs of municipalities to carry out their legal duties while increasing some of the revenue of municipalities and reducing administrative procedures. So far, the State has transferred certain tasks to the municipalities by means of legal acts and on average did not provide sufficient funds and imposed financial burdens on these municipalities, for which there was no coverage in the budget. This was also due to the fact that the calculation for the average did not include certain costs which burdened the municipality for the financing of the rights of certain categories of its population, in particular the remittances of social transfers for vulnerable groups. As a result, fewer investment funds and new investments remained for the municipalities that had this problem. After the adoption of the Act, for example, municipalities will no longer pay obligations that are by their very nature national. Some of the congregation’s incomes will increase as a result of the suspension of some relaxations. The law will burden the municipalities and, as a result, improve the welfare of citizens, so we support the law of the Italian and Hungarian national communities. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say my best to all of you. Today, in the SDS, we welcome the fact that we are correcting the longstanding injustice that has taken place in Slovenian municipalities. In the past, governments have repeatedly imposed new and new obligations that the municipalities had to fulfil as local communities and, on the other hand, have not provided them with sufficient additional resources. Now we have a law that relieves Slovenian municipalities for a total of €71 million. Taking into account the fact that this government has negotiated the maximum amount of investment funds at European level so far, and these funds are also available for investment purposes to Slovenian local communities, i.e. municipalities, given that we have provided the appropriate amount of the average and that the maximum amount of investment in history is now available to the municipalities, and we can add these 71 million to it, we can see that, until now, the municipalities have never had so much resources available for their development, for investments, for the local community, for their citizens and citizens. We will therefore be happy to support this law in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Rudi Medved will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u10	Dear President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The financing of municipalities for the search for political prestige is an extremely grateful topic. And the debate on the law on the financial burden of the municipalities did not fail. In the ranks of the ruling coalition, a real game was held during the debate alone, which will make as many surpluses as possible better the present position of the municipalities, who will be more likely to highlight the historicity of the moment that has taken place for the congregations under the current government. And the fact remains. Almost exactly a year ago, the Law on the Financial Discharge of the Communities was confirmed and sent to Parliament by the government of Marjan Šarc. We have worked with those who point to these problems, namely, the congregations, to arrange for the funding of the congregations. And I'm not going to talk about the history of the moment, but I'm sure it's a turning point. After decades of constant burdening the congregations with new and new financial obligations, we turned the tide in the opposite direction. Together with the congregations, we began to clear up what were the unjustified costs incurred by the State to the congregations. Many such burdens have passed on to the congregations without their knowledge at the time of adoption of laws and regulations. Why? Because there was no dialogue. In the government of Marjana Šarc, we have tried to reduce the costs of municipalities on the one hand, and on the other, to regulate the funding system of municipalities so that the level of the average will not depend on the will of every government to end the practice of annual bartering, which in fact did not have much to do with the real needs of the municipalities, but who will be stronger in this market. More of this bartering was the adoption of the 2020 budget. Despite the highest measured average until then, you raised the scale and barantals of the opposition party. The average is, of course, an extremely grateful field for finding popularity in the mayors. This is what you demonstrated, the opposition, when you adopted the budget rebalancing for 2019. At that time, the government of Marjan Šarc reached an agreement with municipalities of average size, but the State Council, which is controlled by SDS, voted veto to the budget on average. In the same breath, when you demanded a higher average, you sent the budget for allegedly violating the fiscal rule to the Constitutional Court. It doesn't work together, does it? However, this was a classic example of government nagging and the killing of cuneiform trust between municipalities and the government. Although the budget has not been unconstitutional, the Court of Auditors has for the first time given a positive opinion to the budget implementation. But this is quickly forgotten by highlighting how this government raised the average to the legal level during the epidemic, which is not true either. For this year, the amount of the average was on the legal level and was the highest so far, but public finances were under severe pressure from the fiscal rule despite the record budget for the time of the government of Marjan Šarc. Now, you're in over 4 billion deficits, but you're still missing some 10 million at the expense of an increase in the average and a few more 10 additional million at the expense of the solutions that were prepared even in the time of the government of Marjana Sharca, but precisely because of the limits of the fiscal rule, they weren't introduced into this law at the time. The financing of municipalities is the financing and satisfaction of the needs of all citizens and citizens, so it must be independent of every single authority. We started the process to achieve this, but I don't know if it's going any further. It'd be good to run. In order to clear up the funding of the municipalities, we have been swept away by the country’s siege of the costs of the municipalities, and this law on the financial burden of the municipalities has been created, which we will also support in the List of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Predrag Baković will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u12	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The year 2020 will be difficult for all mayors and mayors of 212 municipalities, of which 11 with the status of municipalities will end a little more joyfully and with even greater development ambitions for the following years. Today's vote on the Proposal for a Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities concludes the conclusion of the one-year examination of the law, which has always been intended to financially burden the municipalities of those obligations which, under the jurisdiction of nature in State interference, increase their revenues, abandon administrative procedures. According to the initial proposal, the financial burden on municipalities was estimated at around €30 million, with additional amendments adopted, and this value increased to some €70 million. And if local communities have spent most of the budget to carry out their statutory tasks, they will be able to invest more. For investments that will be primarily for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. For investments that will contribute to the improvement of the living environment, to the development of the place, even in the economic field, and thus prevent blackmail in other economic infrastructures more developed local communities. At the same time, I welcome the proposal that municipalities that have a few more resources in their Roma area will receive 3.5% more than the appropriate spending. In the debates that took place at the time of the adoption of this law, there were, of course, some differences as to how, and in what way, and which are the congregations that will receive them. We Social Democrats have advocated that this should be linked to the Roma Councillor's Institute in the municipal world, but we have not been successful in doing so. That is why I also appeal here to the Nationality Office, which will in some way be the guardian of these funds, to hold a supervisory role in the future as to how and in what way these funds will be allocated. However, the Social Democrats will unanimously support the Law on the Financial Discharge of the Communities, because we are confident that the local communities will, by virtue of this law, contribute greatly to strengthening the economic growth and well-being of the country through their activities and investment cycles, which has already proved to be in another crisis. The local communities will also be able to take a more aggressive approach to making better use of the resources allocated to development by the European Union. Local governments or congregations are, in fact, people who live and work there. In this particular time of crisis, we have come to know and realize that in local environments we can help each other better and easier. Developing and related local environments also contribute to a better atmosphere and health for people, and it is important that these resources be used for the benefit of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Janja Sluga will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u14	At its 48th extraordinary meeting in the context of the second reading of the proposal, the National Assembly adopted amendments to more than a dozen articles, which required the Government to prepare a text for the third reading, today's consideration. Let us recall once again that some amendments to the proposal have been made to the coalition's parliamentary groups, and some amendments have been made to the proposal, which have been the result of cooperation or alerted the Legislative and Legal Services, and in addition the substantive amendments have been adopted, which have added some additional measures to the financial burden of the municipalities. You too will be covered by the state budget. In doing so, we have followed the two basic purposes of the law to the greatest extent, to the extent possible, namely to reduce the costs of municipalities and to the state funding of certain tasks for which the municipality has so far had to provide funds in full or have shared this burden with the State. The law therefore restores tasks to the level of the State, which should never, by their primary function, be under the jurisdiction of the congregation. In doing so, the proposed law of the municipality relieves certain costs, increases some of their revenues and thus increases their investment development potential. The original proposal reached into nine laws, today's text in 12 laws. Savings also increased, from the original 31 to almost €71 million. Let me mention once again the financial implications of some of the measures introduced in the draft law by amendments to the coalition, namely an additional EUR 6 million for the co-financing of municipalities with the Roma population, an additional EUR 25.9 million in 2021 for the balance of the development of municipalities, a reduction of the costs of municipalities by EUR 5.5 million for subsidising non-profit rents for applicants and a reduction of the costs of municipalities by EUR 1.9 million for the payment of accident insurance, liability insurance and legal protection for firefighting services and so on. We are, of course, invited to adopt a proposal for a law this year, since certain measures should be applied as early as 1 January and others will apply on the first day of the month following the month in which the law will be enforced. Otherwise, these financial effects for the congregations will, of course, be less favourable or lower than planned. That is why we will, of course, support the proposal of the SMC Group. Finally, we would also like to thank Mr Medved, the previous Minister of Public Administration, as well as the current Minister, Mr Boštjan Koritnik of the SMC, who not only have established a truly partnership between the government and representative associations of the municipalities, but have in our opinion taken a major and irreversible step towards ensuring greater financial autonomy of the municipalities. With a higher average, and with this law, we are almost fully approaching the goal of having municipalities have their tasks covered. Of course, in the SMC we expect a working group composed of representatives of the Government and representatives of representative associations of municipalities to continue their work to reduce the costs for the functioning of the municipalities. However, we would like to draw the attention of the Government or other members of the Government to the utmost caution in the drafting of sectoral legislation, so that our efforts at the financial burden of the municipalities will not be evaluated in the future. That we do not, as in the past, find ourselves proposing legislation that imposes new tasks on the municipalities and thus imposes financial burdens on them without providing them with adequate resources to carry out the new tasks. As we say, we will support the proposal in the SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukić will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye! There's a law ahead of us that's been in the process for a long time. It was prepared by the previous government, and the new government finally sent it to the National Assembly this fall. Coalition parties have taken advantage of the rich state budgets this year and in the coming years and have pushed us with amendments to gather their electoral base. The legislative procedure was immediately carried out in this Government characterised by a chaotic attitude towards the rule of law and the procedures in force. Fortunately, in the end, the government has only arranged the final version of the law that is now ahead of us. As is the custom under this government, there is also one provision in this law, which does not mean the financial burden of the municipalities, but the financial burden of the citizens. We're talking about encouraging an administrative fee for location information and introducing a new fee. To produce a certificate on the conditions for changing the boundaries of the plot, the first fee will now be raised from the current €22.70 to €35 and the additional fee will be €22.70. Nevertheless, the law brings the necessary financial burdens for the municipalities to which the state has assigned new and new tasks without providing them with adequate funding. Although these are fire-fighting measures that do not really solve the basic problems of local self-government, we will support the law in Levica, because we understand it as a step in the right direction. Certain tasks will be carried over to the country and thus the municipalities will be burdened with human and financial resources. This will allow some municipalities to reduce their indebtedness, while others will be able to implement projects under their jurisdiction or, for example, to prevent the irritation of kindergartens and the like. At the moment, it is most important to provide municipalities with more money for their operation. But, as it is said, intervention into a large number of laws, while financially facilitating the pressure on municipal budgets, does not solve the systemic problems of local self-government. In our view, a fundamental reform of the relationship between the centre and the periphery is needed, which usually takes a poor decade from experience elsewhere. Its purpose should be to create equal opportunities for all, i.e. the early regionalisation of Slovenia by creating a smaller number of autonomous regions that will be able to respond to the future challenges of socio-space development. Secondly, consideration of the mandatory tasks of municipalities and their categorisation as a basis for establishing a sustainable financing model in accordance with the scope of the assigned tasks. Thirdly, the allocation of fewer tasks to developing municipalities, but more money for their implementation, thus giving municipalities the opportunity to eliminate the development backlog. Fourthly, the transfer of mandatory tasks, such as funding for education and education, which are most burdensome for municipal budgets and which can be more effectively addressed in a broader framework at national level by the emergence of regions. Fifthly, to establish a clear set of tasks for the municipalities and to ensure a stable source of funding for them. Sixthly, systematic promotion of inter-agency cooperation through the expansion of the possibility of establishing inter-agency common services. This should therefore be the focus of every government, not just waving holes and looking for attractive, short-term solutions. But as we say, in Levica we will support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! Since the introduction of local self-government, we have supported the functioning of municipalities, efforts to achieve coherent regional development in all parts of Slovenia. We advocate the independence of the municipalities, including financial autonomy, which protects local self-government from unjustified interventions by the state. With a view to optimising the costs of municipalities, we will, in particular, encourage smaller municipalities, including financially, to establish bodies of common municipal administrations. If the State entrusts the tasks under its jurisdiction to the municipalities, it must also provide them with the necessary financial resources. The Law on the Financial Dismantling of Communities commits to the State by law those obligations which, by their nature, should be the financial cost of the State. The costs of municipalities to carry out mandatory, statutory tasks increased from year to year and the average level did not fully follow. Thus, municipalities have not been able to meet all their obligations on an ongoing basis, and they also lack the resources to carry out development projects and improve local infrastructure. By replacing the government, conditions were created for them to listen to the needs of the congregations. Thus, the needed money was found for the congregations. The average for 2020 rose from 589,11 to 623,96 euros in spring, and for 2021 and 2022 it would be 628,2 euros. The average will be 40 euros higher than it was before the government's performance. It depends largely on the extent to which municipalities are financially independent and to what extent they can address the needs of their citizens. The proposal for a law on the financial burden of municipalities prepared by the previous government was further improved in the second reading, so the savings of the municipalities will be even higher, up to €71 million. Thus, additional money will be eligible for the municipalities which have a registered Roma settlement. Additional financial incentives will also be given to municipalities with joint municipal administrations. The Ministry of Defence, in agreement with the Fire and Firefighters, has prepared a proposal for amendments to the Fire and Fire Protection Act, which are now included in the Community Financial Discharge Act. With a view to improving the safety of firefighters, the irregularity of the field of fire insurance is newly eliminated and standardised fire insurance is introduced. I'd like to thank the Minister of Defense once again. Mr Matthew Tonin and Secretary of State Damjan Jaklin for the agreement reached with the firefighters and the Association of Municipalities and for the preparation of amendments to the bill. The protections will no longer be covered by the municipality, but by the Republic of Slovenia. In the event that a standardised fire insurance is concluded by local communities for vehicles, equipment and facilities, the State will also finance such insurance. The municipalities will be so financially burdened that there will be more money for development where it is most needed, and this is in the local community. At the proposal of the Minister of Defence, the government also adopted a decision to allocate €6.5 million to Slovenian municipalities to fight the covid-19 epidemic this year. To conclude a few more calculations, how much more funds will the congregations receive in this year and next year. The higher average in 2020 amounts to 73 million euros more money. A higher average of €81 million in 2021. Discharge due to the adoption of the Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities – €71 million less liability. €6.5 million to cover the costs that municipalities have incurred to combat the epidemic. Therefore, a total of EUR 232 million for higher quality of life in all Slovene municipalities in 2020 and 2021. Members of New Slovenia will also support the draft law in the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, President. Your Honor! In democracy, local self-government plays an important role. The conditions for the successful functioning of the country are also stable local self-governments that are able to carry out their tasks by law and therefore need clear development objectives and, of course, adequate resources to achieve them alone. The adoption of the Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities is even more important at the time of the Covid-19 epidemic, as local communities face significant income losses. The proposal for a law with adopted amendments interferes with 12 sectoral laws and will have quite a positive effect on the congregations. There will be significant financial burdens, with a total savings of around €70 million. The law imposes quite a number of obligations on the congregations. There are more commitments from year to year and the averages for meeting these commitments have not been sufficient in recent years. The transfer of certain obligations to the country will thus constitute a major step towards greater financial stability and, as a result, a greater autonomy of local self-government. However, it is also necessary to say that the consolidated state debt at the end of last year’s 2019 amounted to 31 billion 744 million, of which the municipalities had a total debt of 870 million. The state budget, from which this will now be fueled, had a debt of 28 billion 650 million. Well, there's something else, this marriage. Some bureaucratic restrictions on certain procedures will be reduced and some direct revenue from municipalities will be increased with the proposed solutions. The room for improvement and additional burdens of local self-government still exists and will need to be pursued in the future in order to continue the path we have drawn by this law. The Law on the Financial Discharge of the Communities has been on the waiting line for a year now, and in the SAB Group we are quite pleased that the proposal has finally met this final stage today. In the SAB, we want effective, high-quality and transparent local self-government in the service of citizens, so we will also support the bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The effective functioning of municipalities is based on a consistent system of financing with an appropriate volume of financial resources commensurate with the local authorities' powers and an appropriate budgetary management system. Establishing relations between the State and the local authorities is a continuous process in which the whole relationship, often in conflict and competition for limited financial resources, is constantly being built up. Systemic resources often represent restrictions in the faster development of local communities, while on the other hand citizens' expectations and demands for higher quality public standards continue to grow. Local self-government is one of the pillars of democracy and is therefore an important criterion for assessing the democratic development of the country. Coherence between practically functioning communities in space and their legal institutionalisation is an inevitable condition that affects the success of local communities in meeting the needs of the municipality's population and the democratic resolution of local problems, public matters of local importance. The Ambassadors of the Desus Group point out the principle of connectivity. Simply put, this means that the legislator, for example, who, in our case of local self-government institutions, has to impose responsibilities for the performance of certain tasks, must also provide adequate resources to the other. From the point of view of the municipalities, two fundamentally equivalent choice options are taken into account to resolve such a matter in order to ensure, at the same time, the beneficiaries of the tasks of the municipalities are covered by the costs of carrying out the task, so that this does not affect the functioning of the municipal administration, or that they do not allocate any funds for this purpose and allow the municipalities to prescribe their own fees to cover the costs. The Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities is an element of fiscal decentralisation. Decentralisation of public decision-making defines the delimitation of tasks, competences and financial resources between the Centre and the local level. The main purpose of fiscal decentralisation is to ensure effective coordination of interests and the mobilisation of development potentials in local environments. Decentralisation is based on the assumption that effective political decision-making and effective supply of public goods is achieved when they are provided by the level of authority closest to people. Local authorities have a better knowledge of local environmental problems in dealing with public local issues and thus have an opportunity to tackle these problems more effectively. Therefore, decentralisation consists of reallocation of financial resources, on the other hand, requiring adequate supervision of the operations of local communities by defining budgetary spending rules, transparent financial management and establishing the responsibility of local authorities. The main purpose of fiscal decentralisation is to achieve greater national and economic benefits measured by economic growth and social equality and to provide more effective local public goods than by central government. It is essential that decentralised units are financially autonomous and decide independently on the acquisition and use of financial resources for their operations. This means that they must have sufficient resources of their own in order to cover the costs of the exercise of their legal powers and the possibility of deciding on their use. The financial impact of the bill has increased from €32 million to €71 million through the legislative process for the benefit of the municipalities. The realised revenues of municipal budgets for 2019 amounted to EUR 2 billion and EUR 232 million, representing 3.18% of implementation in the previous year. That's what you need to know. Members of the Desus Group also know from their own experience that the municipalities are an effective mechanism for managing public funds, so we will unanimously support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Members participating in the meeting via the application shall, in particular, be requested to check their connection. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to amendments adopted in the second reading at the home work body and at the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposal for a law would be inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Comrade Rudy Medved.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u24	Thank you very much. In the LMŠ Group, we would like to recall once again and point out that the dialogue between the municipalities and the government of Marjana Sarca created this law on the financial burden of municipalities and that for the first time it happened that the government has reversed the government's continuous burden of the municipalities with new expenditures. The fact that, in support of the current situation in the area of financing local self-government is, of course, a continuing emphasis is that the averages are higher than they were originally set. Of course, they are higher, because there are no limits to the budget deficit. And that the burdens of the congregations are even higher than those originally foretold by this law. Of course, they are even higher, because there are no limits to the budget deficit. But it's nothing historic. There is nothing historic about this, and there is a historical deficit in the budget. And we only express our concern about how the financing of local self-government will flow in the future when it runs out when it is nowhere to be taken. In the Parliamentary Group of the List of Marjan Šarc, we will support this law, because we have invested a lot of energy in it together with the municipalities in the previous government and have a dialogue as the basis for the relationship between the state and the local government.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is given by Joseph Horvat on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! The New Slovenia Group will support the law on the financial burden of municipalities. At this point, I would like to thank our colleague, Mr Rudi Medved, who, to be acknowledged, has set up good extensions for the upgrade of this law. And, of course, thanks are also due to the current Minister, Mr Boštjan Koritnik, who has come to the finish line today with this law. And I'm glad, we're happy to have such united support. Local authorities are one of the main foundations of any democratic regime. And the principle of subsidiarity is one of the key principles of Europe, the European Union. And we're home in Europe. It is not now about how much the coalition or opposition has helped to improve this law, the fact is that this upgrade is costly. And here he also thanks all coalition partners. We have been united and we have indeed upgraded this law with effective measures. And today, if we draw the line and add additional financial resources to local communities, to municipalities, taking into account the rise in the average for 2020, raising the average for 2021, then this law, about 71 million, then the government's decision on the basis of the Ministry of Defence's proposal, and so on and so on, we get a good EUR 232 million for Slovenian municipalities this year and next year. I am pleased to see in this law also the elements of coherent regional development. This is the task that awaits us, dear fellows and colleagues. Consistency regional development is not going well and is not going well. I am also pleased that this government has succeeded in reaching agreement with the municipalities on averages. This is very important. And I believe and take into account that it was the municipalities that, with their projects, saved the previous financial perspective, read the cohesion that practically every euro would turn around in the local community twice before it would be spent. Therefore, I have no worries when I raise my hand or vote in favour, so we will do it in the New Slovenia Group for this law. Sometimes someone asks me when we communicate, yeah, what I'll get out of this marriage as a citizen. My answer is just as much as the municipal council will decide, i.e. the municipal parliamentarians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u28	Thank you, Chairman. We support the financial burden of municipalities, of course, because it will make an absolute contribution to greater stability and efficiency of local communities. The municipalities are overloaded. And we know that. Let this also be the first step, a concrete step to help the congregations. For 20 years, we've only imposed upon them obligations. This is commendable, of course, already in our government we have started by understanding the problem of the municipalities, and now also thank this minister, who has made a concrete first step, a concrete step in this direction. Let this be the beginning, and we will have to continue to think about deploring them. Of course, in our parliamentary group, we will confirm this law unitedly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-07-SDZ8-Izredna-52.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. Then we vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 52nd extraordinary meeting of the assembly.
