ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 15th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Yuri Lepi, Gregor Perič by 2 p.m., Predrag Baković by 2 p.m., mag. Andrej Šircelj, Susana Lepi Šimenko, Tadeja Šuštar and I will be away between 18:00 and 20.30 myself. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the first item of the agenda, Ms Majdo Marolt and Mr Sebastián Zupanc, representatives of the five thousand elections and voters to the 6th item of the agenda, representatives of the State Council to the 10th item of the agenda, representatives of the Council to the 12th item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome all those present once again! Respected and respected! Allow me to speak a few words on the international day of the Holocaust victims before the meeting. Respectable citizens, respected citizens, dear Members, dear Members, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen! Today, January 27, the world is united in commemorating the victims of the Holocaust. This day carries a special weight as we mark the 75th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp. There are few places in the world that so deeply shake one’s conscience and force you to understand what senseless horrors mankind is capable of. More than a million people died there before the Soviet Allied army marched into the camp. Together, 6 million lives disappeared in the Holocaust. A son or daughter, a sister, a wife, another father or husband, will never really know who the dark shadow of the horror of the Holocaust fell upon. How many were affected by the death of their parents, old parents, whole family, or community. Dark stains are spread across the map of Europe. We must not wipe them away for our own shame or, worse, for the sake of rehabilitation, changing the past or writing alternative history. They must remain visible, as are the visible dark numbers on the skin of the survivors who have returned from concentration camps, imprinted on our identity and collective memory to remind them to learn about the fragility and variability of peace. The words “never again” are spoken every year today. We say them with the hope that the events of the darkest period of European history will not happen again. But I am concerned to see the harshness of this world rise again. As an international community, unfortunately, we are still unable to prevent the many horrors and mass crimes that are taking place around the world today. In our everyday life, ideas that are frighteningly similar to those that have once fallen apart across Europe and have survived on new victims are being renewed. Neglecting fear of diversity, undermining human rights and fundamental freedoms, hate speech, intolerance, racism and the greatest increase in anti-Semitism since World War II. “It happened, so it can happen again,” were the words of one of the surviving campers. Spending time has its tax, and soon we will no longer have these living witnesses of memory for nearly 80 years. Therefore, we, whose words reach into public space, must step out of our excessive indifference and incoherence of observation and memories of the past in connection with the events of today. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to express our respect and gratitude and to remember the victims of the Holocaust and the individuals and individuals who have contributed to the liberation, with a minute of silence. [[Silence]] Thank you. Dear Members, we are moving on to the agenda of the 15th regular meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 17 January 2020, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. Since we are moving on to a decision, please check the operation of the voting apparatus. Thank you. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 15th regular session has been set. So we're going to move on to 1. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I have received written submissions on 55 questions sent to me within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, members of the opposition and members of the ruling coalition. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of 5 minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that such a proposal needs to be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, but not on the procedural proposal to be used for a substantive debate on the question raised. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, Minister of Defence Karl Erjavec and Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and Minister of Finance Andrej Bertoncelj apologized for today. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Sarec. Mr Luka Moon will be the first to ask him the question. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u2	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. Mr Prime Minister, in democracy, governments are to be elected by people, act on behalf of people and for people. Residents and residents of Slovenia rightly expect that each time the government will solve the key problems that this country faces from pension repairs, long-term care arrangements, the construction of tens of thousands of public rental apartments, modernisation of railways, preparation for a developmental and green break. All these policies have been promised by this government in its coalition contract. As has already been shown in the implementation of the agreement with Levica last year, it is already stuck with the simplest. Therefore, Prime Minister, let me first express my understanding of your resignation today, we understand that you have realized that you cannot carry out these policies with the existing constellation, and we appreciate that it is right that you have given the opportunity to form a government on the premature ones that will be able to carry these things out. The thing I wanted to ask you about today is a real estate tax, which I would also like to place in one of Slovenia's key development challenges. Governments have been promising it for more than a decade, and so has it, but you have already said in the autumn that this government is unable to carry it out. That is why I wanted to ask you today why not, if we have more than two years before us, but given your resignation, this question is irrelevant. I'd like to ask you something else: Are you prepared to carry out such a tax in the next term after the elections? In Levi, we are convinced that we need him for two reasons. The first reason is the concentration of assets. In Slovenia, there is a real estate of EUR 123 billion, taxed virtually zero, two tenths of a percent collected each year in the budget and assets concentrated. The richest 10% own almost half of this property, and the top percentage of the richest percentage owns 10 billion euros, each of which has almost 6 dwellings totalling two million and half and are taxed practically at zero rates. The second reason why we need this tax is that all the things I mentioned earlier are from pensions, health care, railways, developments related to the lack of money. If only one percent of the property tax were collected, it would be €1.2 billion per year in the budget, or every year for one of the other routes. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Prime Minister, in how you look at this question.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u4	Thank you for asking. I agree with you that the talk about this tax has been quite a long time, just like any other thing. The real estate tax is definitely a burning point. As this law is being prepared, we will certainly receive, whatever government there is, the pressure of lobbyists of such and different kinds. Such a tax can only be carried out by a strong government, that is true, assuming that the records are as they must be, that all preconditions are met. However, something else in Slovenia is characteristic that people built a lot of their own during socialism, so in times they find it difficult to understand that they will have to pay now. But I agree with you that this property tax in the future, if we want to say good-bye to the current compensation for the use of building land, will have to be implemented. But, as they say, it can only be done by a powerful majority government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u6	Thank you. There's one thing I'd like to announce. I agree with you, people have built themselves in Slovenia and are still building themselves and we are absolutely against you to tax these people. We advocate such a tax as we eventually wrote down before a good year and a half in a coalition contract, i.e. a fair real estate tax that would place more burden on those with more and more real estates. The emphasis is on those with more, because those who have more properties, usually also give them away, are said not to be used as an apartment, but to be used for the noblery of their property. In this respect, the tax would be directed primarily against the concentration of wealth. It is not fair for someone who owns a small apartment or a house in the countryside to be taxed at the same rate as someone in the upper tenths of the richest, who, as I said before, has an average of two million and a half six apartments, most of which he probably gives them away and serves them further. It's not fair that they're taxed on the same gabarits. The tax must be such that those who have more make a substantial contribution so that the property is more justly distributed. On the other hand, with such a tax, if we collect only 1% a year, and I stress that we are falling into the tail of Europe, we would get €1 billion 200 million a year, so that we could finance all these activities that are now falling out of the budget, from pensions, from railways to housing, from long-term care and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u7	Thank you. Would you like to respond, Prime Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u8	Yes, when this is being prepared, justice will need to be considered. You got that right. Therefore, I say that this is a question that will require one-way orientation and unity so that this can be done. Because then the issue of exceptions and other things will arise, so it will be quite a treat.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Member, you have a chance to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u10	Thank you. Notwithstanding the fact that I have asked the Prime Minister a question that has already been raised in some way in the coming term, I think it is good that we discuss property taxes within this mandate. As I said, governments have been preparing these taxes for more than ten years, the basis for them has been regulated, since the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates, professional dedication has been carried out, the profession agrees with them in principle. We are also invited by international institutions such as the AMF and the OECD. After all international indicators, according to property taxes, we belong to the tail of Europe, which has two consequences. The first is that assets in Slovenia are concentrated, despite the fact that inequality, measured by income inequality, is small, the inequality after property is great. As I said earlier, the top 10% owns almost 50% of the assets, the top tenth of the richest percentage of the 7 billion euros in assets. Since these people are undertaxed, we are running out of money for key development projects, from pension repairs, modernisation of railways, long-term care, preparation for a developmental and green breakthrough. In order to be able to implement all these projects, we need to discuss the introduction of fair property taxes, fair property taxes, which will place greater burden on those who have more, as has been the case in the existing coalition contract, and the National Assembly could set clear guidelines for the next government to implement this development priority. Therefore, I ask you to put this issue on the agenda of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will vote on your proposal on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. We are now moving on to a second question. Mrs. Iva Dimic, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u12	Dear Prime Minister, if you had your answer to my question about the health situation a month ago, you thought that you had done your job, Prime Minister, you were mistaken. Your answer regarding the lack of doctors and nurses was denied the following day by the Medical Chamber, which has an accurate and accurate review of their number. I'm surprised at your very confident claims that the health situation is well-managed and what solutions we can expect. But the sad truth is that the situation is worse, and the time for negotiation is no longer there. I will now focus on the problem that I have raised in the past month, with regard to the situation at the gastroenterology clinic UKC Ljubljana. My colleague, Trčko from Left, and I visited this clinic and discussed the situation with the management. President of the Government, I assure you that the situation for patients in this clinic is catastrophic, especially for cancer patients. Patients in the hallway are still receiving chemotherapy, some even standing for up to 8 hours. Look at this picture. If they're lucky, they get an uncircumcised wooden bench. Does that seem acceptable to you? Is this worth human dignity in the 21st century with such a record budget? Of the 10 billion that the Slovenian budget has, is it really impossible to find a suitable place in or around Ljubljana where these patients will be provided with decent treatment conditions? Ladies and gentlemen, each of us can be in this hallway tomorrow. Let's think about it. See another photograph showing a hospitalized patient who has a bed in the hallway where he sleeps, is also fed and treated, with all passersby, cleaning carts, with no privacy whatsoever. That's unacceptable. Last month you told me, quote: “The investment in another location to relieve these procedures. The deadline for completion is April 2020." End of quote. President, I want to know: Where is this location and when will this clinic be moved? Management and staff assured me that they did not know where, when, and how the move was to take place. They're talking about an alleged move without specific information.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u13	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your question. I was talking about this information I had at my disposal. Of course, we are all familiar with waiting times and things. I know that you have also tabled a proposal for a law on this subject, which, in my opinion, does not address these issues. If you mention that the Medical Chamber denied my claims, you will also remember that we then gave an answer and a different period of time was covered because the data clearly show that the number of employees has increased, but the Medical Chamber has taken a second period. Nevertheless, this problem of waiting periods, which is universal, is not just one thing, but it must be made clear that we have this problem of waiting periods also because, let's say in the operation of the toe finger, there is a waiting time in New Town for one day, but people do not decide because they want to go to the Clinical Center. There will also be much to be done with a different organization. People also have the opportunity to choose another facility for certain operations. This is a problem that needs to be solved at organisational level or clearly told to people that they can go to another institution and be on their way first. For example, the case of a 13-year waiting period for a foot-toe operation was presented in public. Yes, but this lady, who is waiting for a waiting period of 13 years, has the opportunity to go to another institution, not where she wants to go, I think there is a waiting period of 90 days in Maribor and a day in New Town. And we can also transfer this to other areas in health care. So it's not like that. However, given that I have also made a resignation statement today, if I may say so, I will say that this question today is somewhat, as I would say, out of date. If you wanted to attack me again for the sake of health care, then I'll tell you that another government will have to deal with it, whatever it is. So thank you for all your questions so far. I conclude that the health situation is not exactly what you think it is. They're organizational problems. I would also like to say that your marriage leads to the privatization of health care, because organizationally, there are many different ways to save and the capacities are empty this afternoon. However, doctors also work at other locations this afternoon. That's one of the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Madam Members, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u16	Dear Prime Minister, I would expect you to be touched by the situation at this clinic, which I mentioned a month ago, when you had all the powers and were still a very active Prime Minister of the Government, that you would go unannounced to look at these inhuman conditions and listen to patients and doctors who are treating you under such difficult conditions. Why do I say unannounced? Because if you do, then these patients won't be there because they'll wait for the IPP or somewhere else. You have to go unannounced, and you'll see what they're like. The conditions are painful, you know, even for doctors who are treated there in such an environment and for healthcare professionals. I assure you that a private clinic like this would have been shut down a long time ago. And you know what else? New Slovenia will draw attention to the difficult spatial situation at the gastroenterology clinic every month because we have been receiving information from other clinics for a month where the situation is not much better. I can mention a hematology clinic here. Dear Prime Minister, you have not been aware of the power and responsibility you have been entrusted with. In a year and a half, you didn't stand up for patients and eliminate waiting types. You have had the opportunity to call an ad hoc intervention group to immediately eliminate the most pressing pressures such as this at the gastro-clinic, and to demand from those responsible solutions within a few days. In a few days. And one more thing. Your greatness would be shown by taking care of our patients with our concrete actions. We have always stressed here in New Slovenia and are still ready to offer hands and solutions. And one more thing, Prime Minister, good solutions have no political colour.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u17	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u18	Mrs Dimic, of course, I believe you must speak a little more dramatically. You know, I know the situation, I had two cancer patients at home, and I put it all through. I know how these things are, and I was there when I died, and so on. So I don't have to bring bad news to this account with some emotional receptions because I have my own experience. First of all. Second of all, I know how much I have tried for Slovenian health care. And believe me, I am myself. Even when I saw that it was necessary to change the Minister when things did not go in the right direction, I also did so immediately, I did not wait for the entire mandate. That way I don't have to be accused of insensitiveness here, I'd lay that on your heart. But if you're going to form a government now, you're going to be able to take on a function, and I believe you'll be able to solve things in one month. I wish you so much happiness and success! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, for your answer. Madam Members, you have a chance to make a procedural proposal. Here you go, Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u20	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia hold a debate on the health situation. Dear President, I believe I feel sorry for you, as you mentioned, for your own experience in the circle of your neighbors, but for this very reason, it seems to me that those of us who have this experience are even more called upon to take on the establishment of conditions that are worthy of man. And I can tell you that the gastroenterology clinic, the cancer department, in the basement is not adequate and should be repaired or taken as soon as possible. We're here talking about who's responsible now, who's going to make up the government. Patients are not interested in who will form the government, and they are interested in receiving treatment in a dignified manner. President of the government, I'm really counting on you to do something about it right now, as Prime Minister of the Government in science, but do something about it. Not only do you wait for the next government and elections, you still have a chance to make things right, as soon as possible. I think that's what all citizens and citizens expect from you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u21	I did not fully understand the procedural proposal. Was he? Okay. Dear Member, we will vote on your procedural proposal on Wednesday in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the third question. Lord Dushan Shiskoh, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u22	President, thank you for your word. Hello, everybody! Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! The adopted budget for 2021 will already allocate EUR 2 million to the KPK. Funds are increasing every year and there is no effect. We gave the Minister of Justice a reasoned initiative in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group to abolish the KPK. The Minister's reply was, I quote: "The proposed abolition of the KPK is not an appropriate approach." In my question, I will focus only on the area of asset control. Legally designated persons, ministers, mayors, Members are obliged to report the property. Among them are even persons who have participated as members of the Commission in only one public invitation to tender in the previous year. Mr President of the Government, I believe that it is not exactly your pleasure to comply with these KPK forms either. Data on property status shall also be reported on public records or on data already available to other public authorities. The ownership and shares in business entities are shown in the business register, the real estate data are shown in the land book, vehicle data are shown in the motor vehicle register, stock data and other securities are shown in the KDD. Furs has all of his income data and also of money in financial institutions. Now countries are exchanging even data between banks. The only thing the state doesn't know is how much cash a man has in his pocket or under the air. Even if I write that I have 10,000 euros in cash at home, KPK can't check it, and Furs even taxes that kind of cash if you put it in the account. That's why people still have a lot of cash at home and they keep it in Smurfs. I want to know: Why do we have to report on the property situation every year if the public authorities already have all the income and property data available? Although the law states that KPK can obtain data from official records not to relieve us, but to verify the reality of our allegations. In Slovenia, how many people who have to report on their property under the law have been convicted of corrupt acts from self-sustainment to today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u24	Thank you very much. As regards the Commission for the prevention of corruption, the issue is well known. I think in the history of this commission we have had quite a few different presidents of this commission. The last person to leave at this moment has been the target of controversy for the last six years, both of which are different. Some even claimed that the President of the Republic had an unfortunate hand in choosing. Even recently, before his term of office expired, the number of decisions, as I would say, increased slightly, so that I also linked this to the expectation of re-election. Now there's a procedure out there to appoint a new one. I hope the President of the Republic has a happy hand in this choice. But as for yours, not so many questions, but more, I can say, well-founded observation. In today's era of digitisation, at a time when records are everywhere, when everything is clearly expressed, I also agree that this reporting is certainly unnecessary because the Commission could have an automatic view under the relevant legislation, as you have correctly established. Even for cash, the commission can't find out. He's got all the other information. And if someone forgets to fill out this form, then in public, he's already posing as if I don't know what he was hiding. Therefore, it is certain that in the future the system must be made in such a way as to enable the Commission to examine itself and, if any error or inadequacy is shown, then the debtor could present different facts on his own, and this would be much more appropriate to today's time and today's digital age. Thus, this proposal is well founded, and I hope that in the future anti-corruption Commission we will make it so that people will trust it and that they will also have any powers, because, indeed, if something is done in half, we do not really need such an institution. It is therefore necessary to consider in the future in this direction that the anti-corruption Commission is either effective or better not to be. So I agree with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u26	The President, look, I'm very pleased, almost, with your answer. However, the Government has replied to one of my many questions from the Member States that the authority should not require the party to provide the information contained in the official records of the public authorities. I believe you weren't preparing this, but someone in the back. National authorities are required to obtain data from official records in the procedure under official responsibility, which a contrario means a ban on such data being required by the parties. Why do we work with the KPC except for this general rule? The law also regulates the obligation to report changes in the property situation. Any change in property shall be communicated to the Commission by 31 January of the current year. And I'll tell you my case. I bought a new car last year. I reported KPK, filled out the form, and – you won't believe – they answered me by email not to accept it, but to report it from 1. 1 to 31 January for the previous year. And here I'm wondering if they're only doing one month and they're checking everything and how much longer we're going to do these things. I may also remember one of the Members here because we are 27 today. 1. to report or complete such data by the end of this month. And I want to know: How can change be reported too quickly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u28	Yes, a similar thing happened to me, once in the past, when I wanted to report a change, they wrote the same thing to me. You found out earlier that you received an answer from the government. Today you ask the President of the Government, and as President of the Government I tell you that I agree with you and that legislation will have to be adopted in the future to prevent such matters. If you can’t send it then, surely within a few months, one will forget and problems may begin. These are practical problems that are purely lifelike. What do you want me to say? I agree with you. I don't have anything else to say here. In the future, legislation will have to be done in such a way that the Commission will be effective in preventing corruption. Above all, that life will also see things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr Member, you still have a chance to make a procedural proposal. You've raised your hand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u30	Thank you, Chairman. Maybe this is the last time. We don't know what the situation will be. But look, there are 40 employees on KPK. The average monthly gross salary paid to employees at the KPK is EUR 2 000 in 2018. Thus, 80 % of all funds are used for the salaries of employees. However, the 2018 Annual Report states that KPK has bought a new service car of €19 000 426. Is this an investment that is urgently needed for the KPK? I personally don't think so. In slightly more advanced countries, registers of income and property of individuals are linked to each other and united in one place. We have a comparable application of the Centre for Social Work, which I would like to commend. It also controls the increase in income or property by electronic, automatic means. Any significant deviation in income and property shall be verified completely easily. But we report every year, which only has work and no impact. For all of the above, what I said today and what you said to me, I'm even asking if we need a KPK. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the National Assembly hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government. I hope we see each other in here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will vote on your proposal on Wednesday. If he's voted, we'll see each other in this composition in March anyway. Now you have the word "magic." Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u32	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Politicians need to think of younger generations. Of course, we are talking about climate change and the necessary investments in rail infrastructure, which would improve public passenger transport and enable the transfer of goods from road to rail, thus helping to mitigate these negative impacts. Despite the record, the State budget allocates 70 million less than the previous years to investments in rail infrastructure and road infrastructure. Nevertheless, we must all work together to build and restore as much as possible with the limited amount of money available. So it's important how many miles of road and road we're going to build and rebuild. One of the projects that was not included in the budget for 2020 and 2021 is the renovation and upgrading of the mountain rail line, which would make sense to restore at the same time as the reconstruction of the caravan tunnel, since it will be closed at the time of the reconstruction. It's almost 140 million worth of a project. At the moment, the track is 90% full and calls for recovery. At the time of the adoption of the budget, we have received assurances from Members that it will go into renewal. In addition, the Minister for Environment and Space, who promised that part of the matter would also be financed by the Climate Fund, gave additional hope. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: Can we understand that all the necessary funds will be provided from this climate fund in whole or in part? However, we must be aware that the documentation prepared for the projects is a materially larger part, such as the current available funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The word is given to the Prime Minister or Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u34	Thank you for asking. The upper line and other tracks are certainly important, but I would suggest that, given that your party's minister, you ask her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your answer. My question was well-intentioned. We are facing climate change, transport is increasing. I think we should do everything that works simultaneously and as rationally as possible. The Goreniks need this route, and yet I propose that they reconsider and look if it is possible to redirect the funds from the climate fund, which are not used sufficiently intensively, to the reconstruction and upgrading of this railway line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u38	It's been brought to your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u39	You've got an even shorter answer, Mr. Ambassador. I find that there is no desire for a procedural proposal. With this, honourable Members, I thank the President of the Government for his answers. At the same time, I inform you that, in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are moving on to the questions raised at the 13th and 14th meetings of the National Assembly. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandra Pivec, will answer four questions. The first question is the question of Mrs Lidija Ivanuša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u40	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, distinguished Mrs Ivanus! Let me answer your questions. I'll do my best to capture them, considering there are a lot of them. Safe food is an expression for a set of rules, whose implementation to the maximum extent possible provides our consumers with information on this and safety before these foods are not harmful to health, including the long-term effects of these living, and in particular guarantees that they are suitable for human consumption. How many inspections do we do in one year and what inspections do all these food and all the food control? Inspections are supervised mainly and to a large extent by official veterinarians, then by food inspectors and phytosanitary inspectors. In doing so, they shall act in accordance with their competences in several areas, namely safety and quality and proper labelling of food, animal health and welfare, plant health, placing on the market and proper use of plant protection products, the production and labelling of organic products and protected products, control the import of animals and goods, control the use of related traceability of veterinary medicinal products and plant seed. In all areas, a total of 318 thousand 248 reviews were carried out in 2019. In 2019, a total of 4 000 68 criminal proceedings were committed and €396 000 fines were fined. Which foods are most frequently subject to inspection? European legislation already provides that the most mandatory statutory checks are always targeted at food of animal choice. In this area, certain activities may only be carried out in approved establishments in accordance with legislation. Thus, the official veterinarians of the Food Safety Authority shall carry out continuous monitoring and provision of the ante and postmortem checks of each animal entering the food chain in slaughterhouses. About 375,000 cattle, horses, pigs, poultry, and consignments of about 40 million poultry are examined annually. Why did it take an inspection three months to start with special stricter supervision if sulphites were used in meat preparations? We have also held a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture on this subject, where some clarifications have been made and I wish to repeat it now. In Slovenia we have registered thousands of 833 food establishments in which checks are carried out in preparation of meat and meat preparations. We're six about this surveillance. 6. get the first information that the butcher used sulphur dioxide in one of the butchers. 13. 6. The laboratory management was informed of the positive test. During the half-year, together with the sampling of 41 plants, additional information was obtained on the use of the illicit additive, i.e. 42 plants, representing 2,2 % of all plants. Sulphur dioxide was detected in five cases, representing 0.2% of these plants. On the basis of the risk identified after these checks, the inspection decided to carry out a specific control, which it then carried out at the end of the month. Why wasn't there any publicity? The answer is that it is a preparation which, while being used as an additive to food, may be added to dry fruit and white wine. But meat preparation is not allowed. It is therefore, of course, limited in view of the harmful effects of those who have an allergy to such a preparation. On this issue, I have ordered extraordinary control, as you are aware and also corrective measures. I also believe that information in this case should be more consistent, irrespective of the fact that it is a minor risk in a particular group of people who have an allergy to this preparation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u41	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Madam Members, I apologize for mispronouncing your last name at one point, but I am learning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. President, no problem. It's okay. Madam Minister, as you said, official food control includes, inter alia, an inspection of labelling, presentation and advertising. I want to know: How many infringements have been found in 2019 regarding consumers' misleading of local origin? The country behaves very stepmotherly to farmers. Bovine and swine are falling drastically. Self-sustainment is declining. I'm curious: How will the country promote rural development? We all know that locally produced food is better because the delivery deadline is the shortest. Sadly, local farmers also have problems with surplus crops. Does the State promote a system of association and, if so, in what way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u43	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u44	The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is certainly directing all its strategic views forward, that is to say development orientations to the greatest extent possible, an increase in local nutrition. If our self-sustainment falls in the areas of meat supply, does not fully hold, it is true that we are falling in the number of establishments, it is true of the farms that deal with cattle. It is true that there are also some types of structural changes in which this livestock industry concentrates at all on cattle farming in larger agricultural economies and, what is worrying, slightly falls in hilly areas, in areas with limited factors, where only this form of farming is possible. We are aware of this problem, and we have seen it very similarly in the field of swine, and therefore we are also directing all activities and also helping to strengthen these pigmeat supply chains and to provide such measures as will help them in the future. It is also a fact that we want to strengthen fruit and vegetables production, where we are extremely low self-sustainment and these areas are to be strengthened in the future. I am sorry that I do not have data on the number of sanctions imposed for the mislabelling of locally produced products or those marked “in Slovenia” in this context, but we are certainly very serious about these violations and, above all, we want to focus and encourage the largest possible number of producers and processors to use the “chosen quality of Slovenia” sign, which is certified and which we also want to make increasingly ambitious and increasingly uplift criteria by means of intermediate procedures, in order to ensure that this food is not only produced in Slovenia, but is also produced and processed in accordance with very high standards, which also guarantee consumer safety.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u45	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Madam Members, you have a chance to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Since this topic is very important for our farmers working on livestock or agriculture in Slovenia, they often do not know where crops or most of the domestic meat go to neighbouring countries, instead of spending it at home and importing controversial and less quality food into our country, I suggest that we have a broader discussion on this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u47	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. We will vote on your proposal on Wednesday. This brings us to the question of Mr Luke Moon. But it has to do with animal protection. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u48	Thank you for asking. Dear Member! He's not here. Okay. Then I answer to everyone else present. Animal welfare in Slovenia is regulated by the Animal Protection Act. It imposes upon all legal and natural persons who are responsible for any relation to animals and for the protection of the welfare, health and life of animals. The implementation of policies and regulations to ensure the improvement of animal welfare in Slovenia is based and we also want to continue to conduct these procedures in such a way that they are based on scientifically supported findings that will truly be those that will be tested for animal welfare, whether we are talking about domestic or breeding animals. That is why the Ministry supports animal welfare research in this area, and in this way we are also re-opening new areas where we are identifying all those factors that could also contribute to the improvement of welfare in this area in the future. At the moment, we are implementing projects that would also answer the questions of those improvements to the procedures enshrined in the Coalition Treaty, which define how meat can be prepared in conventional and all possible alternative forms of farming. These projects have been completed since 2020, when all the rules on welfare will also be corrected in line with the findings, the multi-regulation procedures identified by the completion of the projects of the targeted research programmes implemented with a view to improving the well-being. The coordination includes amendments and additions to the Animal Protection Act, as well as the preparation of sub-legislative acts on the protection and welfare of breeding, pet animals, shelters and transport. Since national animal protection rules have been updated in the meantime, we want to regulate all of these also in this law and in all the sub-legislative acts. In addition to the activities listed at the Ministry and the Administration, we continue to carry out public awareness campaigns on responsible ownership of pet animals. It is ready and currently coordinating Slovenia's action plan to suspend the routine reduction of pig tails and meetings with all stakeholders who will have to take this into account in their breeding. As regards this case, which was also reported in the Council broadcast on Channel A, she spoke about the transport of calves from Lithuania via the Port of Koper. The fact is that the Council Regulation on the protection of animals during transport and related procedures regulates the way animals are to be transported, and this must be respected throughout the European Union. In the interim part, certain irregularities have been identified in Poland, which, in line with the findings of the inspection, have also been resolved and therefore permission has been granted to continue transporting from Poland. In Luka Koper, like any other animal arriving at the border inspection, the official veterinarian looked at and assessed the ability of these animals to continue their transport. If these animals are not capable of further transport, the veterinarian must order their execution or appropriate follow-up procedures. Prior to each loading of the animals on board the vessel is subject to the legislation and a further transport authorisation has been issued. As we know, Luka Koper is only an intermediate point of exit for animals from the European Union to their final destinations. For this purpose, we need to have, and we also have, adequate accommodation and care for animals until they are re-routed for further transport. Slovenia is one of the few countries that quite often rejects the loading of animals for navigation – the last of which happened in April 2018 – when we find that animals in transit are not suitable for further transport. In this case, as has been said, these errors occurred in Poland and were found to have been corrected in the meantime.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u49	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u50	Thank you, Madam Minister, for this report. My question was partly based on this case when they brought the bulls from Poland to Luka Koper, some of them died on the road, and then they were loaded onto ships, and it is not known how many of them survived this trip. In part, however, the issue was a general one. But let me first touch this particular case. You explained, but the fact remains that some bulls died because of the inappropriate conditions on the road already during the journey and it is not clear what happens to them on ship transport. That's why I want to know: Why not simply ban the transport of animals in Slovenian territory? This is just like it is, you can see it on the Internet. A good portion of animals do not survive this every time because they travel in impossible conditions for a few days or even weeks, in totally inappropriate conditions for animals living in their own wastes, between bodies and so on. I would specifically like this to be prohibited. I'm interested in your opinion. Speaking of commitments under the Animal Coalition Treaty, I would like to ask you some specific questions. You mentioned that you're renewing the animal protection law. And I want to know: When can we expect him in the National Assembly? It was said that at the beginning of this year. The year has begun, but we don't know where this marriage is. So I'd like to ask you for more specific information. When can we expect the renewal of these sub-laws on breeding animals mentioned? Have you made any movement on the issue of animal experiments referred to in the Coalition Treaty? Attempts are to be prohibited on some animals, at least on some species, or as much as possible. The Coalition Treaty also speaks of a ban on battery breeding, which is why I'm interested in where we are with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u52	Thank you very much. In fact, I also accept all this information with concern, and I am also regularly familiar with all the irregularities in shipping. Also by our employees in Luka Koper. As we have also regularly informed the authorities at European level about all irregularities, on the basis of the conclusion I have mentioned since 2018, the last time we banned further transport, namely the lack of implementation of the provisions laid down in Council Regulation 1/2005, a working group at the level of the European Union was set up to prepare a new network document on definitions related to the transport of animals by sea. So far, there are no initiatives to completely break up. However, I can say that the transport of animals is essentially from other countries, notably Hungary, Croatia, Poland, the Czech Republic, Germany, France, the Netherlands, Lithuania, Italy. Slovenia is extremely rare or never among those who load their animals. But most of the recipients are Lebanon, Israel, Syria, and Egypt. Of course, it is the full economic interests of other major European countries, so I very much doubt that Slovenia would give this initiative in order to do so, because their interest must be understood, but it is great. But we've been very alert to that, and this group is going to be dealing with it. The Animal Protection Act is already under consideration. As you know, in the meantime we have experienced further changes in legislation in another area – the registration of animals as sensitive beings in the Real Law Code. It follows from this that certain matters will have to be settled or extended in the Animal Protection Act and in sub-laws, so at this point we have decided to propose the adoption of two different laws into the procedure. The first would be the one talking about the European Union's warning about the implementation of the European Regulation in our legal order and which in some ways already provides for penalties for non-compliance, namely animal trials. Then there would be the prohibition of execution after 30 days for healthy animals in shelters. We would accept this as a priority to avoid punishment. This is followed by the Animal Protection Act, which will be extended and reinforced by amended sub-laws in the direction of welfare. We anticipate that such an extension could already be addressed in the National Assembly by the first half of the year, that is, by June.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u53	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Member, you have a chance to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u54	Thanks for the answer. I would still like to propose an initiative for a general debate. I asked the Minister about a broad subject, which is not discussed enough in the National Assembly, namely the provision of animal rights and welfare. They will live in Slovenia for a short time, for which I have worked for a long time, in the Real Law Code they will finally be defined not as objects, but as living and sensitive beings. Given that their legal definition is changing on the basis, practice should also follow in laws and regulations. We will have to start as a society to realize that animals are not objects, some machines for naked human exploitation that can be treated as they want, that industry can do what it wants, only that their meat, milk, eggs and so on are the greatest. It will be necessary to realize that the animals, as will now be written in marriage, are living and feeling beings, and that this is how they should be treated. I therefore propose to the National Assembly that we discuss how this new legal provision will be put into practice, and that we discuss how, as soon as possible, to implement at least the minimum measures envisaged by the current coalition agreement on the basis of a ban on battery farming, animal testing. I also propose that we discuss the complete prohibition of the shipping of animals, etc. Please put this debate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will vote on your procedural proposal on Wednesday. The seventh question is from the Magi. Meire Hot, however, has to do with the preparation and amendment of the Animal Protection Act. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The question is partly similar to the previous one, so I will try to answer quite concretely with the data. The law was sent to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 5 December 2019. The adoption of the law was proposed following a reduced procedure, but Slovenia received a reasoned opinion by the European Commission on 11 October because of its failure to comply with the obligations set out in the letter of 11 October. With regard to the adoption of the Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act, which is due to take place by the end of March 2019 and then to continue with the rules on the conditions for the implementation of procedures on animals by the end of April 2020, we now propose to exempt it from the wider Animal Protection Act and to be treated separately so that, in the Law on the Protection of Animals, in the widest possible context, all that Mr Luka Mesec has already said and, of course, have also been regulated by amendments to the laws. These changes will be extensive and will therefore take longer. The text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act is inter-sectorally harmonised, except with the Ministry of Environment and Space, which has made such additions in particular, which will now be taken into account and regulated by the Ministry of Environment in the light of the longer term and wider amendment of the law, in addition to those areas which the Ministry of the Environment considers still to be subject to regulation. The marriage was 12. 12. Already in the first coalition coordination and we have agreed, also in accordance with the coalition treaty, to extend it and to continue to take into account as many coalition commitments and proposals as possible. As far as the question arising from the definition of animals is concerned, this is in fact already regulated by the Real Law. As we say, we implement it into the Animal Protection Act and into all sub-laws. What changes are envisaged in the euthanizing of healthy animals? This is regulated by the Animal Protection Act, which defines the article on animal torture, Article 4. But to shorten, the killing of healthy animals is not allowed except for human consumption and the removal of excessive day-old chickens. That's what the limit is. As it is said, the proposed text of the amendment now deletes the first two indents of Article 26 and thus no longer allows holders of shelters to execute a healthy abandoned animal after 30 days of being placed in a shelter. This, of course, remains written in the amendment of the law. As has already been said, we are basically dividing the marriage into two parts. The first is to be dealt with as a matter of priority, and then in the second, we cover all the changes that have been agreed upon by the various proposers at the time of public hearing and in coordination so far. With regard to the proposal to introduce surveillance cameras into slaughterhouses. These practices in some European countries are already in force. As I answered in the first question, in Slovenia this control is very good in slaughterhouses. The presence of the official veterinarians is constant, and for once there were no such major or major violations that would lead us to make sense of putting these cameras in our slaughterhouses as well. If this were to happen or to be more targeted, this would also require a change in some legislative frameworks and it would be applicable to approach this and first regulate it and then also install cameras in these establishments.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u57	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, first of all, thank you for your comprehensive reply. Thank you also for your efforts, because I understand that you have taken an active approach to solving the problem. Nevertheless, I must express my regret that, when I took the initiative to change the definition of animals and things to sensitive living beings in June, the initiative was aimed both at the Ministry of Justice and also at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Perhaps I am sorry that you have not already done parallel work and today would be much easier to harmonise legislation in the Real Law Code, which has not yet been adopted, let us hope that it will. We tabled the amendment, on 6 February it will be on the Committee on Justice and I hope that all political parties will follow and adopt a new definition. However, I have also touched on other matters in the basic question of the Member States, which I hope will be introduced into the amendment of the Animal Protection Act, namely, the prohibition of chains, concerning the prohibition of the imprisonment of dogs in small dogs, which has already been regulated in some countries, and in this regard you have also received a petition, as well as a change in the legal terminology of the owner, because I think if there will be a change in the Real Law Code, then the term of the owner is no longer appropriate or is no longer appropriate in practice. It would indeed be necessary to impose higher penalties on torturers and to impose a explicit provision that any mistreatment of animals and neglect is defined as an offence and sanctioned. I hope you will also bring these proposals into the novel. Finally, I would just like to say that certain cases of torture, abuse and negligence that we have witnessed in recent years show that more effective field control is also needed. There is an absolute need for a constant review of the state of animal treatment, particularly in those who have already established a certain responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u59	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I apologize for not responding to all these additional proposals. As regards the amendment and addition to the Regulation on the Protection of Pets, this defines the attachment of pets, in this case puppies. Of course, this change is not in the Animal Protection Act, but it is in line with the rules. In this area, a more extensive SWOT analysis has also been carried out since the petition was received and this SWOT analysis, which showed the situation on the ground, will also change this. However, it certainly requires an adjustment period. The results have been shown if this ban were immediate, the situation of puppies in this area could have deteriorated significantly if they had started to be confined to small dogs. This should be regulated in accordance with the fact that the social treatment of puppies is also prescribed, it is said, the frequency of walks and everything else, which affects their well-being and well-being, which could make the single ban on chains worse. That is why this is already changing in the Regulation, is being supplemented and I believe that this Regulation will be proposed for adoption as soon as possible. This amendment of the Regulation also addresses the issue of changing the terminology of ownership and the term of the owner, which is no longer appropriate in this case. This amendment is already taken into account in the amendment of the law and also in the subsequent rules. As far as we're concerned, we didn't approach immediately. The biggest change is followed by the adoption of this terminology in the Real Law Code right in our area. Believe that it requires a bunch of amended legislation and regulations, which are not problematic when we are talking about pets and animals, to which we, as humans, are already acting sensibly. Surely, however, this is much more difficult when we talk about human nutrition, and these rules must then be aligned with the industry involved. These changes are not so simple, unique and cannot be implemented in a very short time. But we have approached them, prepared them, and I believe that we will be able to accept them as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u61	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You still have the last question from the past, namely, Mr Franz Breznik, and it is linked to the social status of the older rural population. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u62	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for this question as well. I think that the issue is truly extremely topical and, above all, worrying data on the ground also discuss how quickly and decisive it is necessary to approach this issue. The problem raised relates to those farmers who have been protected in the past for a narrower scope of rights permitted by legislation. The consequences of these insurance decisions for a narrower scope are reflected in the extremely low remuneration that retired farmers receive from these rights today. It is extremely worrying that this revenue amounts to EUR 223 per month, and these pensions are somehow appropriate to what the legal framework currently allows, 26 per cent of the lowest pension base, of which the amount I have mentioned is of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u63	Dear Minister, you've been disconnected, but we don't know who. Yeah. Was it a timer? She was misplaced. I apologize on behalf of the technical staff. Here you go. .
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u64	In the meantime, this percentage was raised to 29% and now this pension amounts to EUR 253. While the ICG proposed a much higher percentage in coordination – we proposed 45.5%, which would increase the pension to the basic amount of the minimum income from 1 in the insurance period. 1. 2019 amounts to €392. Security for a narrower range of rights includes only the right to old age, invalidity, widow's and family's pensions, but they are not entitled to an allowance for assistance and service. The pensioners for the narrower scope of the rights covered by the agricultural activity during any period prior to retirement are currently around 4 000 600. Historically, farmers in the common system of compulsory pension and disability insurance have always been considered a special vulnerable group. Somehow, the rule was that the insurance system should take account of the limited economic capacity of farmers and should not impose on them obligations that they could not. Therefore, only the contributions of the insured person shall be paid by farmers throughout the period when they are included in the single pension scheme. The employer's contribution shall be paid from the budget. In 2018, the total amount for the 12 thousand 370 insured amounted to EUR 8 million 158 thousand 259. The budget shall also pay the contribution of the insurer and the employer to farmers and members of agricultural holdings in the event of major accidents, such as the various natural conditions – the floods and storms, the cold and the acorns. In 2018, the budget paid around EUR 505,000 for 466 insured persons, which is at least a double amount compared to 2017. It is also true that the situation of awareness between farmers and farmers of their rights is quite low, so we are constantly trying to help them and inform them that they are aware of the rights they belong to them. Our last work was carried out together with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, where at the initiative of the Association of Agriculturals of Slovenia we also issued a brochure with information on social transfers that the agricultural population can enforce by law. I would like to point out that all socially disadvantaged farmers and also rural pensioners may be beneficiaries of public funds rights if they fulfil the legal conditions laid down for the acquisition of these rights. The social security system is also linked to the social distress of persons or families, and the acquisition of rights, as opposed to social security, does not depend on prior inclusion in insurance or the form of insurance. We are working at the Ministry to regulate the status of the protection of the elderly in farms. Therefore, in the past it has joined a project where the social protection of the elderly can also be carried out as part of complementary activities on farms. I must say that there is a great deal of interest in this form too, so we will strive to continue to regulate it systematically. We are also trying to ensure that farmers, and especially farmers, who were to a greater extent those who were not insured and over 65 years of age, are once again recognised the status of a state pension, as was the case in the past, because of all their contributions and the credits that I believe they do not have to be listed and may be the reason to ask again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u65	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, the word is yours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Let me say that in 2017, under the leadership of Mr Cerar, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in June, I asked the question of the status of rural pensioners. We're both coming from some rural environment. I think you're familiar with the situation. Let me say that two categories were identified in statistics and also in historical terms. The first is those who have been engaged in the entire agricultural activity period and the second is those who have been engaged in and paid contributions to agricultural activities only part of their active period. Those who have been engaged in agricultural activities all the time have a pension of between €150 and €200, i.e. 543 pensioners; between €200 and €250 there are 586; between €226 and €300 there are €193. We don't have one that has more than 750 or 800 euros. I think we only have one. Those who have been actively engaged in agricultural activities only part of their career have higher pensions. But we can see that those pensioners who were only involved in agricultural activities are only 2 000 194. This is the 2017 data. In all likelihood, there are still fewer of them today, with a total of about 13,000. Those of all those who were only part of their careers involved in agricultural activities. It is also important to be aware of the historical moment that discrimination took place at least in the 1970s, where some could not pay their contributions. I think, Minister, that we need to think about this, not least you're the President of Desus now, congratulations, let's take an active step, because it's a relatively small percentage. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your time is up. Madam Minister, would you like to complete your answer? There's no wish for a refill. Mr Member, you have a chance to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u68	Dear President of the National Assembly, I think we need to discuss that people in Slovenia see that this is a category of pensioners who have been trying all the time to pay but a former regime in several periods, I can say that for almost 20 years he has not allowed them to pay their contributions at all. This is precisely because it discriminates against a Slovenian farmer to destroy him to the end. However, when the crisis of the former socialist system broke out, they were partly excused and able to pay their contributions with limited rights. But you have to be aware that a lot of farmers paid about the same number, I'm talking about the previous country, if you say in money, like a worker, but it only gave him half of the rights. As you know, this discrimination went so far that the farmer who came to the doctor had even a green health book, unlike all the others we had, I think, a health book of orange color. It was discrimination, and the new country even found out in 1991. As a result, she introduced state pensions in the system of correction of injustices because she was aware of it. The government under the leadership of SD, the minister was then Svetlik, abolished state pensions and said they were getting you some social transfers in this context. In the context of social transfers, however, she has settled on a number of farms. We have family farms, we have a whole range of farms that have survived last but not least socialism and are dying on meals today. Why is it so important, Minister? We are both aware that there are many technological changes in agriculture, we are both aware, we have a common goal, we could say, also generations of renovations of Slovenian agriculture. We cannot talk about digitisation unless we introduce a new structure for Slovenian farmers and farmers. See, if these want to join agriculture, if a farmer wants to become some ambitious goal for young people or some ambitious profession, what kind of copycats do we have today if they see that categories of people who have been engaged in agriculture for 40, 50 years are literally dying today? For this reason, I propose that we hold one thorough debate without some major ideological themes. I think that at least these 2 000 people in Slovenia who are literally dying on meals today, we will ensure that these pensions are increased to the amount of the minimum pension. This is a relatively small amount, but perhaps this amount, the Minister, would affect some aspects of agriculture, that this country sees agriculture in another light, and that, as Americans say, in this fight, if I can speak in quotations, we have forgotten about all those people who have given Slovenian agriculture enormously. You could say they've dedicated their whole lives to him. And that's their way of life. Let this right be guaranteed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will vote on your proposal on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. We therefore turn to questions for the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mr Zdravka Počvalska The questions are four. The first is the question of Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenko regarding border areas of concern. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u70	Dear Member Susana Pretty Šimenko, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. On 18 July 2019, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a Regulation supplementing the Regulation implementing the regional endogenous policy measures. This Regulation lays down, in its Article 11, the competent ministries and areas for action in border areas of concern. In view of the number of ministries involved and the number of measures envisaged, we estimate that inter-sectoral coordination will take place for several months. We started the coordination, the first working meeting was held in Lipica 10. 12. 2019, second in Osilnica 7. 1. 2020 and today the third coordination is under way in Ljubljana. In order to implement all planned measures, legislation will also need to be amended. We plan that all preparatory activities can be completed by the end of 2020 and that the implementation of the measures is planned in 2021. The Regulation on the implementation of endogenous regional policy measures provides that budget users who take account of the cross-border problems of areas across the various areas of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, the Ministry of Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the Ministry of Public Administration, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. We are following the regulation to implement measures in the area of job conservation and job creation, in the area of tourism promotion, in particular activities for the development of infrastructure and tourism products. My ministry is already implementing measures and has adequate funding for them for 2020 and 2021. Our Ministry's calls for projects from limited areas of concern set additional points in the selection process. In 2020, 2021, we have thus awarded subsidies to promote investment, equip business zones for a well-known investor in border areas, subsidies to start businesses in problem areas through the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, favourable development credits for investments through the Slovenian Regional Development Fund, and we also have a public invitation to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the field of tourism to increase substantive and energy efficiency. Since in the cohesion region of Eastern Slovenia all eligible areas in the cohesion region of Western Slovenia can be declared after this public call, municipalities are in the border problem area. For all these measures and planned measures, we have an adequate budget and funding in our ministry for 2020 and 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This brings us to question ten. This is Mrs Violete Tomić's question and it is about the harmful privatisation of Adria Airways. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u72	Honourable Member of Violet Tomić, Honourable National Assembly, President of the National Assembly. The Adrie Airways business model was based on repeated state aid. During the period from independence to 2012, the company received over 100 million public funds. Such a model was not economically sustainable in the long term in the face of extreme international competition in the field of air transport. In this process, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has repeatedly stepped in to help, and last in 2011, when a recapitalisation of EUR 69.7 million was carried out by the Government and the banks of creditors. Regrettably, the company has not carried out a successful business restructuring during this period despite the expenditure measures. In the ex post verification process and the last recapitalisation, the European Commission decided that the aid was implemented in accordance with European State aid rules in the area of rescue and restructuring of firms in difficulty under the responsibility of our ministry. Any further activity in this regard was disabled from then until 2022. Adria Airways re-entered an extremely difficult liquidity situation in early 2015. Let me stress that the sale process is led by SDH, for which the Ministry of Finance is responsible. I continue to provide an explanation of the course of sales. SDH has prepared several possible scenarios. Based on the analysis, the best possible solution was for Adrio and for the Republic of Slovenia to sell the company. In these circumstances, the then Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in cooperation with SDH, initiated the privatisation procedures of the Slovenian air carrier led by SDH in June 2013 under the agreement on the privatisation of 15 companies. He was not interested in buying strategic investors operating in the aviation industry. The basic objective of the sale was to carry out financial consolidation and stabilisation during the first phase so that, in the next phase, it could become particularly interesting by strategic investors who could ensure a long-term existence and development. This action created conditions for the maintenance of the Slovenian air carrier. When the company was purchased in 2016, the owner of 4K Invest also announced that it would restructure the company, maintain the Slovenian air carrier and develop it in the future. This would allow for long-term positive effects for the budget, the Slovenian economy, the development of the profession and all stakeholders of the company. 4K Invest has not fulfilled his predictions. Today, Adria Airways has been in bankruptcy in the last period around us as a result of an extremely competitive market hit by several regional airlines — Germany’s Air Berlin, Iceland’s Wow Air, France’s Aigle Azur, and British Thomas Cooke. From the point of view of the well-known course of the sales process, I can conclude that it has always been conducted in a competitive, transparent and, under the circumstances, optimal manner. Throughout the period of cooperation of the international financial legal advisers of KPMG. The leader of owners and sellers at the time was to make the most economical decision for the Republic of Slovenia in the context of the situation at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u73	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Do you want a word? I didn't notice the hand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u74	Thank you. Dear Minister Restoration, I have little pain in your answer, which you read as if you were reading about my shoe pads, which I haven't fixed in time. You should know that 4K Invest is a vulture fund that has sunk every company so far, took it to bankruptcy and sent people to the road. However, we have recapitalised Adrio Airways in the same way as the banks, now with EUR 3 million, and then SDH – I agree, not you – sold 4K Investment to the German Fund, namely AA International Aviation Holding, which was essentially set up to take over and registered in Malta, which is a well-known tax haven. What's not clear to the godfather here? So you're conscious, if you knew, then you consciously damaged or acted against the strategic interests of the country. But if you didn't know, well, I'm sorry, then you didn't do your homework, because selling to a speculator and talking about some restructuring is totally unacceptable. While our pilots, our staff, the stewardesses were burning, Adria recorded the minuses. It is clear that it recorded the minuses, if all landed in the tax havens, through the advisory contracts went millions of remittances abroad and some owners indicated fabulous amounts. That's why I'm also interested in: Are you prepared to accept this responsibility for the enormous damage to the state property of taxpayers and also to the interests of the state of Slovenia? Why is it taking so long to solve the problem that has arisen in this regard, since all the other airlines that have come into a similar situation had a plan B? What did you do about it? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u75	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u76	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! You know very well who is responsible in the government and I also told you where SDH belongs and which ministry is responsible for carrying out this privatisation. I have nevertheless answered your question, though I might say I am not responsible for answering that question. But I'm as hurt as you are by everything that's happened. And I say again today that I believe that Slovenia will be less connected without its new air carrier, and that a sustainable model should be found to solve our connection to the world. Communication, the infrastructure of Slovenia with the world is important on the road, on the railway and in the air. With the bankruptcy of Adrie Airways, we have come to the point that in this most rapidly developing communication way we do not have a good connection in Slovenia. I am always prepared to take responsibility for the things I have done and for which I am responsible. But for those who have no influence, I can't take responsibility. But I am still trying to find a solution within how to better connect Slovenia with the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Members, you have the opportunity to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u78	I absolutely propose that this matter be discussed at the next meeting, because, Minister Restorationšek, you are part of this government, of course I will also call on the Ministry of Finance. But I'm curious when you say you're still looking for a solution to how to connect Slovenia with the world: How long do you plan on looking for this solution because you didn't have a plan B? At MGRT you were very boastful about what you would do, you did not keep your jobs. Look, when he bankrupted Swiss Air in 2002, they started Swiss International overnight. When the Belgian Sabena 2001 went bankrupt, Brussels Airlines was immediately established with a few fewer planes and lines, but with strategic connections. Slovenia will preside over the European Union, we will not be able to go anywhere unless, I don't know, the neighbouring countries are friendly enough to us. On September 23rd, I was in the last year of Adria For Ever, and I must say that it was very emotional, because all these top-notch pilots were actually out of work and all our staff. We're gonna lose our license, again, I don't know, banana traders or someone else's buying. Be serious already, the country has strategic interests, and these really aren't for fun. However, it must be clear to the Government what the strategic interest of the State is and what it must have. You've already ignored the sale of such a merciless speculative fund that you've been warned about by the media, the profession. This arrogance of authority, which does not listen to anyone, really needs to be debated. In view of the exceptional and irreparable damage that has been done to the State and citizens and taxpayers through the unavailability of our sole air carrier's privatisation, I would like to see serious debate in the National Assembly on the wrong decisions made by the last governments, and in particular on the responsibility of all those involved in the loss of our parade horses of the economy and infrastructure. The sense that if we give everything out of hand to make the country function better, it is executed for our country and for our strategic interests. I therefore ask that a serious debate be held on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u79	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your proposal. We will vote on your proposal on Wednesday. Mr Minister, please answer Mr Vojko Starović's question, also concerning the State air carrier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u80	Mr Vojko Starović, honourable Members, thank you for the question. In our ministry, we have carried out activities so far, despite the fact that we have not been closely monitored by the Department for the coverage of aviation connectivity of Slovenia with the rest of the world, of the business of Adrie Airways as an important economic operator. At the start of the bankruptcy process, we were aware of the seriousness of the situation, as Adria Airways was an important regional liner and charter carrier, which ensured the connectivity of the Slovenian economy in international economic flows, especially for the tourism sector, which has seen extremely encouraging results in the area of overnight growth and value added. In the context of possible solutions, various alternatives have been explored, which would also in future ensure the connectivity of Slovenia as a business investment destination with the rest of the world, from taking over the lines of Adrie Airways from other airlines, to the fact that the Republic of Slovenia would establish its own airline either as the sole shareholder or in the form of a public-private partnership with a sector strategy. The possibility of setting up an airline of its own was certainly conditional on the provision of positive economic performance indicators for the future new air carrier. Other than that, in the light of past experience, it would be irresponsible for the economic management of public money and for taxpayers. As has been said several times by the Minister of Finance, the President of the Government has stated that the establishment of his own company is unlikely. As DUTB CEO Matthew Pirc referred to the STA, the establishment of a new carrier has not proved economically meaningful. As an alternative scenario, they see that a regional carrier would operate. However, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has not received any specific calculations by DUTB. Despite the fact that the establishment of its own airline is not economically viable, Slovenia's connectivity with the rest of the world in terms of ensuring a competitive business investment and tourist attractive destination for our ministry is still of paramount importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Member, you have the opportunity to request a further reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u82	I am afraid that in the field of aviation, where we were Slovenians at the very beginning of aviation in the world and where we had good competences and where Adria was also declared the best society in the previous system in its time, that we have so easily lost the top of this competence. This knowledge is thus lost in many areas, which means a significant weakening of Slovenia. I repeat, this is a matter of aviation competence. We lost our only carrier. We've got the Air Force Agency, which I don't know what it's gonna do. We've given the airport to others. I don't know what it's for. I don't think this is the right direction. We must take care of this nation if we are to maintain ourselves, to develop further, we must take care of our competences. That's why it was really nice of you to hear that you're still thinking and that you want to keep doing this. I think that in other areas of the economy where we have developed competences, we should not lose them so easily. We lose economic power, we lose our sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, you want to make a deal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u84	I am pleased that you are aware of the importance of Slovenia's aviation connection with the world. The problem is Slovenia as a country, the Slovenian economy, tourism and the problem of the Slovenian Government. We must address this problem together and try to find a solution to it. If we are able to invest in bus transport in Slovenia, if we are able to invest by the country every year in railway connection within Slovenia, then I believe that we must also find the basis, and there is a fact that in cooperation with a private initiative we will lead Slovenia back to a future aviation connection with the world at the level as it has already been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u85	This brings us to the final question for you, Mr Minister, in this context. This is Mr Jožet Lenart's question regarding the growth of the Slovenian economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u86	Honorable assembly, presidents! Mr Jože Lenart, honourable Member, thank you for the question. In our ministry, we pay particular attention to increasing economic growth and greater competitiveness. In preparing innovative measures, we are following trends: climate change and the transition to a low-carbon circular economy, population ageing and the restructuring of the economy into a highly productive and technological sector. To achieve greater competitiveness, the business environment must first be stable, competitive and predictable. For the purpose of investing in research and innovation and technological development, 11 calls have already been launched since 2016 in priority areas of smart specialisation worth €238 million, where over 400 projects are currently being implemented, we encourage attracting investments and performances by Slovenian companies abroad. We are also carrying out incentives for the equitable development of the regions, more so today I have replied to MEP Lepi Šimenka. We supported over a thousand small and medium-sized enterprises annually from 2016 onwards, maintained about 20,000 jobs and created 2,000 new ones. In supported companies, the added value increased on average more than 4% per year. By means of measures, we have also encouraged about 200 million additional investments. We encourage businesses in all stages of the life cycle, subsidies and seed capital are available for businesses in the initial development phase, micro credit funds are also available, and SID Bank and the Slovenian Enterprise Fund offer favourable financial resources in the form of loans and guarantees for bank loans, subsidies, interest rates. An effective support environment with free services in the form of information, training and mentoring for businesses through innovative environmental actors and SPOT points is also crucial. The International Challenges Plan 2019-2020 was adopted in the field of internationalisation. My ministry, through its actions, also promotes partnerships in foreign markets, the introduction of digitisation and digital transformation, strengthens the branding of Slovenian companies through showrooms, encourages process improvements in companies. Let me point out a few more measures: an SME test that reduces the burden of the economy, a student to encourage small value without complex procedures for obtaining these funds, an action plan for startups that removes obstacles and relieves entrepreneurs from the start-up area. We also continue to maintain tax reliefs for research, development and innovation, which are a financial burden for businesses and the economy. The Ministry will further address gaps in the future with a view to increasing added value and productivity, higher exports and thus higher salaries for employees. In doing so, I would like to point out that we aim to ensure that all sectors, including those that may traditionally be considered labour intensive, are updated, restructured into highly productive industries. For example, in the textile or wood industry today, we have successful companies that prove that this is possible — Lithium, Aquafil, and others. Analyses and market conditions show that investment in research, development and innovation, strengthening digitisation and digital transformation of businesses, promoting internationalisation, incentives for transition to a low-carbon circular economy – more about this later in answer to another question. With all the measures we implement, plan and want the economy well equipped to face the challenges of the future, we want to ensure the Slovenian economy's long-term competitiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Member, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u88	Dear Minister, I thank you for your specific answers, but I would like to appeal to you that, in view of today's situation, you continue with all your activities so that the economy does not feel that until a new government is formed, all activities are ongoing, as economic development must continue, politics must not stop it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u90	Dear Member, all that is being done will certainly be carried out independently of the government's functioning. In the world, however, it has also been proven several times in practice that the economy is developing in a positive direction, independent of such or other problems within politics or government structures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenka Bratušek will answer two questions, first of all to Mr Tomaž Lisc on the energy concept of Slovenia. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. As far as the energy concept of Slovenia is concerned. When I was in a hearing with the Minister of Infrastructure, I did not make a commitment, but I said that I think this energy concept should be adopted by the beginning of 2020. When I took over the role of Minister, I found that before the energy concept there is another document on the table that is actually going in the same direction – this is the National Energy and Climate Plan, with this national energy and climate plan slightly shorter, although, I will say, not so in the short term – until 2030, with a view to 2040. The energy concept of Slovenia will define our energy by about 2060. At this point in our ministry, we are directing all forces into the National and Energy Climate Plan, in a document that has been publicly decommissioned since 17 January. We also have a public hearing in the context of this public consultation tomorrow. At this public hearing, we will work together with the Minister for Environment and Space, because the additional document of NEPN is also an environmental report. In short, the measures set out in this National Energy and Climate Plan have already been reviewed from an environmental point of view so as to avoid any further problems. As soon as this NEPN is adopted and our goal is to be adopted by the end of February, my wish is that, despite the fact that there is no commitment, it is confirmed by the Government alone, it is my desire to present it also in the National Assembly, because it is a strategic document that outlines our Slovenian energy and will have an impact on everything: the country, the economy, people. Immediately we will also start with the energy concept for our country, which, as I said, will be a continuation of this NEPN – NEPN by 2030 with a view to 2040, the ECS and the energy concept of Slovenia even more in the long term.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u94	Thank you, Your Honor, for all the answers. Yes, I also have a magnetogram ahead of me when I asked you last April and you promised that at the end of 2019 the energy concept would be adopted. But today, 27. 1. 2020, we know what happened. Therefore, I would have only one additional question, given that I also asked your predecessors how it is with the energy concept, the end of 2017, the end of 2018, the end of 2019, and now you said that as soon as the NEPN was adopted, February. I believe and I hope you thought February 2020. Thank you for that part of the answer. But I'm getting a little confused because even though I read this NEPN myself or at least flew through it because it's quite extensive material, I'm more disturbed by articles in the media than this one: we'd go into a carbon-free society, but it's not clear how. I would therefore ask from this city for your position while you are still a minister in the current government: What are the priorities of your ministry at this time? How to achieve these things in both the NEPN and the energy concept, so that what you said will not happen, I quote: "We need to be aware, and we can feel this now that we do not achieve the goals by 2020, that this will cost us very much. Therefore, it is necessary to be ambitious, but also realistic, in setting objectives." Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you: What are the estimated values of the lack of acceptance of the energy concept? What is your ambitious, yet also real energy policy, perhaps a lesson for the future government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u96	Thank you very much again. NEPN is expected to be adopted in February 2020. As we say, immediately after this we also begin with the energy concept of Slovenia, which is in some ways the continuation of energy policy after 2030 and 2040. As it is said, NEPN has not yet been accepted, I will talk about the numbers that are currently in the document. If I understand correctly, in fact, you are most interested in renewable energy sources, including costs, penalties or whatever you want, so I always stress, yes, let us be ambitious, but at the same time realistic. At the moment, NEPN is expected to achieve 27% of the total renewable energy share target in Slovenia by 2030, with a 43% share of EEE in the electricity sector reaching. For 2030, NEPN plans to operate jointly in Slovenia for a thousand 650 megawatts of solar power plants, 150 megawatts of wind power plants, a thousand 199 megawatts of hydropower plants, 90 megawatts of power plants on wood biomass and 34 megawatts of biogas power plants. I know we're going to get the criticism that we may be too ambitious, but behind this document is quite a number of experts who have calculated how, what can we do, until when can we do it. And, yes, at this point, there is a threat of punishment against our country that we should be paying in the coming year, because we are not achieving the goals, not the thousands, 10,000, 100,000 euros, but a few million. Even up to €9 million, according to these calculations we are currently doing, could amount to the penalty that should be paid from the State budget to the European Fund. So, yes, ambition, but at the same time, you have to say how. As I said, although there is no obligation for the National Assembly to become aware of this NEPN, my proposal will be that when the Government confirms it when we send it to Brussels, we also come to present it to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We continue with Mr Ivan Hršk's question regarding the catalytic depolymerisation process, which allows waste to be processed into synthetic diesel fuel. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u98	This area is certainly part of the systemic treatment of the comprehensive national energy and climate plan, which includes the objectives of Slovenia for the coming decade. In particular, for waste, I can relate to the targets of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% by 2030 compared to 2005, with an indicative sectoral reduction target of at least 65% in waste management. The NEPN therefore provides for measures in the field of waste management. In addition to the existing measures under the responsibility of the ILO – promoting reuse and recycling, building the missing infrastructure, improving the waste packaging collection system, this document covers this document, I have already said that it is currently in public debate, including additional waste measures, including support and implementation of at least two pilot projects for the recovery of waste into synthetic fuels. The implementation of the invitation to tender in 2020 and the implementation of the invitation to tender in 2021 are listed as a timetable for this measure. The remaining additional waste measures are: the development of a more detailed energy balance in Slovenia and its energy potential, and the development and use of new technologies for the production of synthetic recycled carbon fuels, the production of synthetic fuels, hydrogen and synthetic gas from waste. NEPN also envisages strengthening competitiveness and technological development capacity in energy and extensive support for the development of new products, production processes, services and solutions that will be suitable for the transfer to the economy. Among other things, waste management technology for energy purposes will be encouraged. As I have already said, the question of NEPN follows again, and we have a public presentation with the Minister of the Environment tomorrow in the context of the public debate. There will certainly be additional explanations there, but probably also a few questions about what is going on and why is going on. But I want Slovenia to accept the document, where we know, of course we are ambitious, but we also know how we will realize this ambition. That we will not be again on the basis of the documents adopted just before we pay the fines. I told you before that we're threatened, these are calculations, well, we'll see, but up to 9 million euros. I hope we are aware of what it means for the Slovenian budget to be €9 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We continue and move on to questions of Members and Members in the first round. The first is Mrs Jelka Godec, who will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, I have asked several questions on the subject of the network of the Šentjur municipality's infrastructure, which is written, and there have also been several discussions on the Roads Directorate, DRSI. It would focus mainly on the reconstruction of RC III 687, namely Down-Ponikva-Long Mountain-Loce. This is a state road which was adopted in 2008 in the NRP and in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a compulsory road in the event of accidents on A1 motorway, and at the same time this road was very busy building a railway line on the Celje–Maribor route. And not only burdened, but also very destroyed. I believe you're aware of this. You probably haven't seen the road yet, but I've also published some of the last pictures, when, say, in the middle of the road, there's a huge hole, etc. Not now, but the road was also rated by the AMZS as one of the most dangerous roads in Slovenia. The promises, when the reconstruction begins, were made on several sides, including the ministries, including the former minister. You also wrote to me in March 2019 that if there are no major problems, the work on the route is expected to start at the end of 2019. At the end of 2018, I called a parliamentary evening on this topic. They were present employees from the Directorate and promised there that a public invitation to tender would begin to buy land and there would be a public call for reconstruction of at least one phase, the most urgent phase, the end of the year or was promised at the beginning of 2019, then the end of 2019, even in June, I received a letter that, in view of the course of purchases and weather conditions, construction would start in the expected spring of 2020. The situation is such that there was no invitation to tender. The ransoms are already there. I was also told at the end of the year that it was not a major problem for those who were to be saved. Now I am interested, given that promises have been made to citizens, that at least one part, the worst part, of reconstructions will begin: When do you expect a public tender at the Ministry for at least one stage, from the settlement of Ponikva to the railway in Ostrzezno? I'd ask for your answer, and we've been listening to promises for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u101	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u102	Thank you for asking. My answer will be relatively short. It is true that, on the basis of the legislative decisions following the pitching, the necessary land is still being bought out at this time. After obtaining the necessary evidence of land availability, the Slovenian Infrastructure Directorate will take priority in the construction of both sections through Ponikvo, 780 meters long and over Klanec, 670 meters long. A draft co-financing agreement has already been prepared for the section through Ponikvo, which is currently in coordination with the municipality. The directorate has also already acquired an engineer to prepare the tender and control the construction. In the Directorate, I can say that I am still confident that the call for renewal will be published this year. My wish would be in the first half of 2020. Of course, all the necessary procedures must be followed up first, from the lotion and also from the call for proposals to be successfully completed. Because we also know here that it is often not easy to bring procedures to an end.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Madam Members, do you have a request to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u104	Madam Minister, now I do not know what information you have, but the plot was already made in 2018, the buyouts are taking place and I was told on the direction that wherever it gets stuck, let's say if a person doesn't want to sell, then the nationalisation is done or all the proceedings are initiated, and that this is not an obstacle to the public invitation to tender. That's what was said. If I get it wrong, then you'll fix me. You're talking about two stages through Ponikva and Klanec. I have to tell you that the Clanec was overcoated in 2018 and people say that the complete nonsense, that it is quite funny, that now the directorate would be the part that was overcoated, I will say domestically, throw this asphalt out and do a new one. It is more necessary than the settlement of Ponikva, the next stage, to the railway line in Raznožna, which is really so destroyed that there is not even a metre of whole asphalt, but you have almost already macadam. People drive these roads every day, their cars are destroyed, and thank God they don't get into accidents. The promises for this call have been drawn since 2018. It's all done, but there's no invitation to tender. So I'm saying, it's a plot, the redemptions are done, and as far as I know, only two aren't really saved. I would ask you, Madam Minister, to look at these matters and perhaps speed up in this direction to really reconstruct the part, the stage – because the projectors or those who run the project know – in the part that is really urgently needed. It's from the settlement of Ponikva to the railway station. This was also the agreement on the directive that they would give it in writing. So far, I'm afraid I haven't gotten this. That's why people are hurting these promises, because in the end, we also give Members some of the promises or data we get from the ministries and directorates.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u106	Dear Member, what you said about the section over the Clanec that I mentioned, I will certainly check that the overcoating was done and why it would have to be done again. So I will provide you with this answer in writing. As far as the other questions are concerned. Once again, the legislative decisions on land ownership are already in place, and the purchase of land must be ensured. Decommissioning procedures are the longest, so it is the interest of our ministry to resolve as many things as possible with an agreement and not with nationalisation or decommissioning as you have mentioned. Here we always ask for the help of the congregation because they know their people better. I will also appeal here again to my colleagues to try to close things down as soon as possible, and to the mayor to try to help us with these procedures. Something else than once more to say that I also wish this invitation to tender to be published as soon as possible, at this point, unfortunately, I find it difficult to tell you. Because I am also a man who doesn't like making promises, because these promises don't depend solely on me. Of course, there are a lot of procedures to be carried out. Undoubtedly, however, this is a section that is urgently needed for restoration.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u107	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Dr. Franc Trček will ask the Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion of Dr Angelika Mlinar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Dear Madam Minister, a well-respected dozen Members and Members of Parliament who are in the Chamber! Whether the government is coming or the government is being reconstructed or the government is leaving, in some societies that think themselves, we need to have what is called civil servants in English and some well-functioning systems. One such functioning system with which we have more than too many problems – in December we talked about it quite a bit – is what we usually call European cohesion. Indeed, European cohesion is not our only money, as I say, for social spatial development, but in fact it is the largest part of a cake of such public finances. On the other hand, Madam Minister, somehow in Brussels you declare that we are over-absorbing cohesion, that we are content with that little less than the budget of Maribor for the green part, there is a great deal of trouble in IT. The First Minister of the Government's reference also spoke very frankly on this issue on the last committee. It still doesn't really take a week for that famous Emma to fail at least once. After all, people who have learned to do European cohesion lose their nerve by losing their nerve by looking for some people in ministries instead of dealing with content. That is why the first part of my question that this government must address, even if we have an April election: When and how will we stabilize the operation of this system in the short term? Sometimes this kind of thing happens, but maybe it's because of some higher power, communication noise once a month, not twice a week, three times a week. The second part of this question concerns either a reconstructed government or a post-election government: How can I organise the information infrastructure at the SVRK in the medium term so that this will not be one key bottleneck that takes only too much time for people who, in practice, do not even pay so badly, engage in a whole range of European cohesion and lose too much time for these concerns instead of seriously devoting themselves to content? This is my two-part question, and I hope you will offer me the right answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dearly beloved Member! Thank you for, in fact, the question of the information system again. I'll try to answer you in detail as much as possible. The e-MA information system, which supports the implementation of the European cohesion policy in the Republic of Slovenia, works and ensures smooth implementation at all stages that must be supported by the information system. The system allows the allocation of funds, the validation of projects, the proposal of payment requests for activities carried out in contracts, which is the basis for payment from the State budget and enables the European Commission to confirm the expenditure and results. The system is stable, but I agree that it is slow and may not be most user friendly. However, I believe that both in most complex information systems and in support of the implementation of cohesion policy, the information system is in fact very complex, as European cohesion policy is governed by a broad legislative basis at European and national level, which is also reflected in the information system. In Slovenia, this is actually a test link between the three information systems. These are: a system for the implementation of an operational programme called e-MA, a system for the implementation of the Slovenian budget of MFERAC and within it a specific module for the validation of expenditure to the European Commission, so-called eCA. The complex system causes occasional problems and is unlikely to be completely avoided in the future. Since much has been said in the past about the problems with the information system for the implementation of cohesion policy, many have been linked to the poor implementation of the programme. It should therefore be pointed out that the information system no longer poses an obstacle to pumping. In fact, significant progress has been made in this area in the past year. This has also been confirmed by auditors who have found that significant improvements have been made in the e-MA information system, which now allows the reliable collection, recording and storage of the data needed for monitoring, evaluation, financial management, verification and revision of the usefulness of the use of European cohesion policy funds. I repeat that the system operates and allows for ongoing implementation. However, there are definitely some challenges to us by regulating the situation of data from past years when the information system was not adequate. In connection with the information system, the European Commission sent us a warning letter on the cessation of payments. Following further checks carried out, the national audit authority informed the Commission in November 2019 of the remediation of these deficiencies. At the time of my visit to the Commissioner for Cohesion, Mrs Ferreira, last week, she also informed me of the Commission's decision that the systemic shortcomings were adequately addressed. Nevertheless, activities related to improving the functioning of the information system continue to be intensively implemented and remain an important priority of the Government's Development and Cohesion Policy Service this year. In addition, at the SVR, we have already begun to draw up professional bases and other necessary investment documents for the preparation and publication of a public procurement order to adapt the existing e-MA information system to the requirements of the new 2021-2027 programming period. The amount of resources required for implementation will be known when the necessary documentation is completed and the tenders are received by the tenderers. We want the selection process of the contractor to be completed in the first half of this year. The construction of the existing information system has cost us approximately €2.6 million so far. From this and the already well-known adaptation needs arising from the draft European legislation for the 2021-2027 programming period, we have made a first assessment in the SVR, after which the adjustment would cost approximately EUR 3 million. If we upgrade the system with functionality that it does not allow now, such as calls for proposals, this amount is likely to be higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr Member, please, you have a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u112	In fact, I have to have a request to supplement the answer, because the Minister has answered that part of the question, whether the European Commission confirms that the system is appropriate for them, so-called Claiming, if I use that word that we understand those who have dealt with it and are engaged in it. You know, on the other hand, we have a banally practical view of someone entering something for half a day, and his system is collapsing. And I've been asking more about this other aspect. At that time we had December 13th, and Friday it was, the session, and Mr Krpan checked it out, and he got a text from his partner on the project that the system collapsed again. And it didn't collapse because it was Friday 13th, but because the system is actually so unstable. In fact, yes, as you said correctly, two systems plus one module, that if I use a teacher's language, perplex, there is no excuse that this matter would not be working at a purely everyday, operational level, which is not yet working. And if I understand your answer correctly, it will, if, be more appropriate at the beginning of next year. I hope I'm wrong about that. Because it's not a very good trip for all the people working on it and actually living on a daily basis with these things. I'm not going to ask for a public debate on this, because I think we've talked too much over the last month, maybe not too much, we've talked enough about this. But in fact, I would like an answer from these many people, including my experts who are working on these projects, when they will be able to deal with the content in peace, not shaking down their system every second, third day. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u114	I agree with you that this is an absolute priority, because without this draw, we will not complete as optimally as we wish. And it's because of what I gave in the first part of my response, it's my job's priority and it's going to remain a priority until it works so that it's as optimal as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We're moving on. The following is Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik, who will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalšk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! Dear Minister, the circular economy has developed in response to a linear model economy that no longer met the needs of modern societies in a globalised world. To ensure sustainable growth, of course, we need to use our resources smarter and more rationally, so Slovenia, as well as the entire European Union, has committed itself to the circular economy and has accepted this as a strategic direction. We have therefore committed ourselves to implementing a comprehensive strategic project on the decarbonisation of Slovenia through the transition to the circular economy through the cooperation of the European Commission and the European Institute for Innovation and Technology. To this end, a centre will also be established for the transition to a smart and circular society whose task will be to coordinate the content of the programme and to integrate all relevant initiatives and projects in this area. Thus, we will start to work systematically towards increasing the productivity of the economy, where Slovenia is unfortunately lagging behind the European average, and contribute to improving competitiveness and business stability. In the last few years, Maribor has proved that in the circular economy – for example the WCYCLE Institute – the SRIP seat for the circular economy is also in Maribor, and many other projects are in implementation – the most proactive city and thus the centre of sustainable resource management, so of course it would make sense that the headquarters of the centre are established in Maribor. This action would show that the state is aware of the importance of decentralisation based on the content and knowledge of individual areas, as it is mainly necessary to address internal development problems more effectively and provides a basis for faster and more coherent development. We do not want only the central Slovenian region to make development progress, and it is not right to think only about extending the highway to Ljubljana, rather than focusing on decentralisation of the country and thereby reducing the development backlog of the eastern cohesion region. Our goal should be to ensure a balanced economy, cultural and social development in all regions of the country, because of this, of course, will contribute to the satisfaction of the people of all Slovenia and will also strengthen the whole of Slovenia. Mr. Secretary, in view of all the above, I ask you: Is the location where the newly established centre for transition to a smart and circular society already established? If not, I respectfully ask you that she is in Maribor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u118	Dear assembly, honourable Member Lidija Dijak Mirnik, Chairman! Thank you for asking. The transition to a low-carbon circular economy is one of the strategic priorities for the development of Slovenia. This is one of the key instruments to achieve carbon footprints due to climate change. It is also one of the key elements of the green agreement, which is a priority for the new European Commission. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is strengthening its activities in this area. The circular economy is one of the priorities of the Slovenian Smart Specialisation Strategy, where targeted research, development and innovation funds are targeted. The circular economy will be one of the key pillars of the future Slovenian industrial policy that we are preparing within our ministry. For the purpose of updating the circular economy, we also intend to make use of the climate fund in cooperation with the European Commission and the European Institute of Innovation and Technology, or with its implementing institutions, we are preparing a comprehensive project for the systematic transition to the circular economy. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia took note of information on the preparation of this project on 7 November 2019. The comprehensive project of the transition to the circular economy is a project jointly prepared by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, the Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Development and European Cohesion Policy, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. To this end, the Interdepartmental Working Group was set up at the level of the Directors-General under the direction of the Ministry of Environment and Space, which, together with partners from Europe, will draw up a concrete proposal for a strategic project with measures, a forward-looking plan and financial resources. This project proposal will include, inter alia, an organisational solution for the establishment of a centre that will provide coordinated and comprehensive activities for the transition to a low-carbon circular economy even after the end of the project period. The previously mentioned Interdepartmental Working Group met for the first time at the Ministry of Environment and Space on 10 January this year, where they established working methods and further steps. First, it is necessary to determine the content of the project and the necessary activities, including those carried out by the planned centre for the transition to a smart and circular economy or a circular society. With regard to the establishment of the centre itself, we cannot yet give concrete answers, as all options are open, both in terms of the organisational form and in terms of the location and the seat itself. However, I am sure that we will be able to find a solution that will suit all stakeholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u119	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Ms Alenka Jeraj will ask the Minister of Justice, Mrs Andreja Katič. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye! A long time ago, we talked a lot about a new prison, a men's prison in Ljubljana, Dobronja, as well as about changing or upgrading a new women's prison on Igo. I want to know where things are. As far as I know, the spatial plan was confirmed by the Municipality of Ljubljana. I want to know: How are the works going, or what are the procedures, which things related to the construction of a new man's prison in Ljubljana are still ahead of us? It was also said that we might even go into a public-private partnership. Because we read things online, I'm interested in: Is it still true that we're going into a public-private partnership, or has something changed? But above all, I want to know: Is the assessment that the new male prison will be built by 2024 real? What is happening on Igu or how you plan to build a women’s prison? I assume that after a man's prison in Ljubljana is built, and the open department, which is currently on the Igu, is likely to be transferred to the Ljubljana part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u122	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, thank you for asking. As you yourself have already said, we have talked many times about these two projects. The situation today is that the starting points, as we said, were set in 2016. We received solutions at public architecture landscape competitions in 2017. In 2018 we started putting objects into space and preparing documentation. As far as the women's prison, as you know best, a spatial act was adopted on the municipal council in the summer of 2018 and this location was finally confirmed, and Ljubljana was the municipality's detailed spatial plan to address the problem of housing in Dobroňa, adopted on the city council of the Municipality of Ljubljana at the end of November 2019. So that the procedures for the placement of both prisons are completed, and here also thanks to both local communities for their cooperation. As far as Iga's concerned. We currently obtain a building permit for women's prisons, the application has already been submitted to the administrative unit and is in the process of complementarity. It is also a public contract for archaeological research under way in accordance with the requirements of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, which will be concluded in autumn 2020. And if everything were to go according to plan, depending, of course, also on archaeological research, it would be the beginning of the construction of a women's prison in 2021. As you also said about the public-private partnership, you know that legislation requires that we also have to test the possibility of a public-private partnership in every major project. In these proceedings, we do not have any feedback at this time in order to have any interest from private investors. As far as Ljubljana is concerned. Documentation for the building permit is drawn up and is in the stage of obtaining opinions, in accordance with building legislation. In view of the difficult location and the size of the project, the environmental impact assessment will be an integral part. In accordance with the Roadmap, we will apply for a building permit in the summer of 2020. We plan to start construction in the second half of 2021, of course again under the heading so that nothing can be found on the ground when we start digging. As I have said many times at the Committee on Justice, we have always sought solutions, including in our discussions with local communities and also on the basis of requests from the professional public, both foreign and domestic, as regards how prisons must be built and, of course, optimisation, so that we have reduced the estimated value of the Igu project by almost 20% and in Dobroň more than 10%. We are aware, however, that the final financial consequences will also depend on what will be the result of the call for proposals. But as it is said, everything is still going in line with the timetables, so that the Republic of Slovenia would have the problem of both prisons in 2024.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u124	Thank you for saying that. If I understand correctly, we are already getting a building permit for Ig, while not yet for Ljubljana, you are just preparing documentation to file. I want to know: What is planned with those objects on the Ig below called an open section? Will you benefit from this further, or will something happen there, or will it then go to a new prison in Ljubljana? It's just traffic violations and these little things. After all, I don't know if it's best, people go to work every day, and then they go to sleep on Ig. I mean, it's -- we're also one good country to offer a hotel for those people. The question is, does prison really make sense? I wonder whether you are planning any changes in this regard, or whether it will remain the way it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u126	You are probably aware of the spatial problems of all prisons in Slovenia, so we are currently looking for different options when moving prisoners, especially the biggest problem in Cyprus, where we do not get a sufficient number of law enforcement officers. Within this framework, it will be necessary to look for different solutions for several years before both prisons are built, in order to ensure security on the one hand, so that we also have adequate capacity to install prisoners. In particular, the problem is detention. So now, somehow by agreement, all institutions are negotiating and also moving closed persons around Slovenia. So for quite some time, everything will still be up to date, but as far as Igo is concerned, all existing premises will benefit from the penal sanctions department in the future. Thus, once we have completed one part, this has been presented to you in one way or another at the meeting of your congregation council, then it will be moved. Perhaps one part of what I wanted in advance was initiatives that came from your congregation to agree that part of the castle could be made available to the public in one way or another under a special regime. We're going to be looking for different solutions here, but what's going to happen, the final contents of this, until the prison is upgraded, I can't predict it yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u127	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Madam Members, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u128	I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we hold a debate on this, because it may also be possible, through discussion, to find some solutions in terms of a possible more optimal solution to the problems. I understand that the spaces are too small and so, but I don't understand or less understand that we're keeping a prison in a castle that should be a cultural monument. Since 2011, the Ižan municipality has been on the Unesco heritage list due to the cradle, but we will have a prison in the castle, in the cultural monument. It's some kind of thing that's very illogical, and I think we could find a better solution. I propose that we hold a debate on the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We will decide on your initiative on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. We're moving on. Mr Blaž Pavlin will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikal. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. On a holy night, the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, the State Secretary at your Ministry, Dr. Jernej Stromajer, on the Twitter network, published a provocation with which he branded us as dirty animals to everyone celebrating Christmas. Christmas is a day's work in Slovenia alone. Christmas is the biggest family holiday for most people. Thus, Christmas brings us together, and at this festival, let us enjoy peace, joy, blessing, and health. In the past, Dr. Jernej Stromajer has proved that he has great problems with decent expression, but this time it is important to stress that he has also done so as a member of your government team or as a representative of the executive branch. He has hurt many citizens with his insulting publication. This is a school case of hate speech that discriminates against people on the basis of religious affiliation. Such communication by Dr. Stromajer on a holy evening does not contribute to the bond and understanding of our society, but rather to tolerance, respect, and acceptance of diversity. Dear Minister, on behalf of all the people who celebrate Christmas, I ask you: How is it that the Secretary of State, Dr. Jernej Stromajer, still enjoys your trust?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u132	Thank you very much. That's a good-bye to all of you! I have answered this question several times to the media — not here — so I will be happy to repeat my own position. First time. As regards appropriateness and inappropriateness, to be crystal clear, the matter is inappropriate. This was the second day that this was published, also very clearly and explicitly written down and was published in all Slovenian media. If there can be one thing in the context of fiction, so in the context of a fictional film, amusing, there is absolutely no fun in reality, not for those who celebrate or celebrate Christmas on such an evening. So, the matter is absolutely inappropriate, and that was my point of view all along. I haven't changed my mind here. As for other things, you know, but that's the way it is. I judge my colleagues – yes, and once again, I stress that it is inappropriate to tweet, but I judge them – according to their work. You know, there are a lot of challenges at the Ministry, at least for 2020, to date – and I hope that either we or anyone else will be behind us – from a white book on education and education, in short for primary schools, a national programme for the development of higher education to a research and innovation strategy, if I stop only in terms of strategies. The legislation that has been enacted today is the Law on Scientific and Research Activities, which is in intersectoral coordination, the Law on Conduct and Emotional Problems of Youths, the Law on Kindergartens and so on and so forth. So, you know, when I judge how someone works, of course, for such inadequacies, indemnities, and more to say. I think there were five calls that afternoon on this subject. So my position is clear, but at the same time I appreciate the work of a colleague of the State Secretary, because he coordinates a number of working groups, the Law on Research and Development, the Law on Higher Education and more. At the Ministry we will not run out of work in this sense. However, if we are already in the process of calling for different, let's say, community contributions and how not to pay them in the form of taxes, then we can also see elsewhere such calls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u134	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for your answer, which I've been expecting. Let me once again point out that Dr Jernej Stromajer is Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Education. It is said that the other man is the Ministry and your deputy and, as such, a member of the Government. Many citizens are disappointed at the level of his expression, which should also be an example for everyone else in this country. The Secretary of State has repeatedly apologized for what he said. I can also accept his apology, but I can rightly doubt his sincerity, as he has repeatedly repeated such records in the past, this time in a slightly different form, the form of the Secretary of State. Let me re-emphasize here that it also matters who says something. I would also draw attention to the opinion or belief of the Prime Minister of the Government, who is convinced that, as you yourself have said, the publication of the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education at Christmas was extremely inappropriate for a high official of the State, and in his opinion he should be dismissed. Obviously, you and your client are subject to different criteria, so I ask you again why you did not act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u136	Thank you very much again. Unfortunately, this policy, like Aristotle or anyone else, is no longer a high song. It's full of populism. Look at Twitter, it's so inappropriate not to say anything else, an expression that's been discarded to the end. The populism has become a daily thing. And here all of us who are in this political space, not only ministers and secretaries of state, agree, of course, but all of us who are in the National Assembly, namely, in Slovenian politics, ask what we are actually doing with this political community – with jokes, with populism, with irresponsible verbal expression and so on. No wonder it's passed on to our community. And speaking of which, I said earlier, also, calling for any civil disobedience in terms of paying taxes is just as problematic as not saying anything else. Because each of us has to, because it's the right thing to do, because we've decided democratically. And if we have made a democratic decision to do so, then everyone should pay the taxes. That's what we're talking about. So we're talking about general inappropriate expression. And I would really like to, because this is very poorly passed on to our citizens, that we, as part of this policy, are using appropriate speech among ourselves – I have already labeled that from a colleague of the Secretary of State as inappropriate – and thus the tensions that are between us, we do not tolerate people and in this way we spread hatred and something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Pavlin, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u138	Minister, with such an attitude, you have certainly taken on a great responsibility. At least I know for myself that I choose very much what I say, and if I can, I'm not insulting. At the next meeting of the National Assembly, the Real Law Code states that animals are sensitive beings and that the Secretary of State at your Ministry names everyone celebrating Christmas as dirty animals, which is an inappropriate expression for me to call animals. As I am not satisfied with your reply, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on the inappropriate Christmas leave of the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u139	Thank you very much. We will decide on your procedural proposal on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. The next question will be asked by Mr Samo Bevk, Minister of Culture Mag. Zoran Poznań. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! In October 2017, a new Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture was adopted with the aim of making part of the funds intended for the construction or renovation of public-owned buildings intended for the equipment of such buildings or their surroundings with artistic works. The implementation of this measure enriches public spaces with artistic works. The measure of artistic participation in public investment projects is in the public interest, determined in accordance with the cultural, educational, developmental, tourism-economic, symbolic and identification importance for the country, municipalities and settlements. The new law provides for a 1.25 % share for investments in art works for renovations or new constructions of up to €10 million and a 1% share for higher values. The positive effects of this measure include: the creation of a more active market for Slovenian works, a more stable environment for the work and life of painters, especially independent cultural creators, increased public space culture and higher value of public buildings. Dear Mr. Minister Mag. Zoran Poznań, for this reason, I ask you: How is the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture implemented in this part? Thank you very much in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u142	Your Honor! Thank you for the questions. I'll try to answer as soon as possible. Sort of. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture was adopted at the beginning of 2018 by a legal instrument offering independent creators in culture the opportunity to further develop their artistic potentials. With artistic works and accessibility, we will, as a society, contribute in the long term to improving the quality of life of all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia, which is, I really believe, in the interest of both politics and the country. Today, at the Ministry of Culture, we find that all the measures imposed by the provisions of the amended Act and under the responsibility of the Ministry have been implemented in the period following the adoption of this Act. The list goes something like this. The Regulation on the conduct of a public tender for the selection of works of art in public investment projects was prepared, adopted and published. A public call for candidates to be included in the list of experts to participate in the expert committees of investors for the selection of works of art in public investment projects has been announced and published. The notification of the law of the cultural policy measure in question has already been notified and transmitted to all state authorities in public investment projects with instructions on how to implement it. There has already been a collection, regulation and verification of the appropriateness of applications for candidates who have responded to a public call. A list of the relevant experts who will participate in the selection of investors in expert committees, which they are legally obliged to appoint to choose works of art in public projects, has been published and published on the Ministry’s websites. As a public call is open until any amendment of the legislative provisions which legitimize the measures in question is made, this list shall be supplemented and amended by new applications or withdrawals of individual experts from it. In accordance with the rules on the protection of personal data, an internal record of the Ministry was drawn up with those personal data of certified experts that investors will need when they contact them. So, at the Ministry of Culture, we have prepared all the necessary grounds for initiating the operational implementation of this cultural policy measure in order to really start doing so when the first investor of the public investment project starts to do so and will therefore have to carry out all the activities envisaged by this project. It is said that this law will come into force as soon as the public investment project is largely implemented. Sort of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. As can be seen from your response, all preparatory measures have been taken. But for the start of implementation, I would like to know: Has any concrete project already been implemented and at what level? Is it possible that the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Public Administration has this information, or how many do you have at the Ministry of Culture? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u146	Thank you. 15. 7th and 21st. Last 10th year, it is said, 2019, the Minister of Culture sent a letter to his fellow ministers in which I note that its provisions have not yet been implemented in more than a one-year period of validity. We therefore politely asked them to encourage the implementation of this law in the ministries they run and in the services they are responsible for. To date, several ministers, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Development and European Cohesion Policy have responded to my letter. The Ministry of the Interior replied that, as part of the planned major reconstructions of business projects such as the 2020 project of the renovation of the site, it would allocate part of the funds for the purchase of works of art. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities wants a meeting with us to examine the open issues and dilemmas together. However, we have not yet received a response from the Ministry of Environment and Space. In doing so, we have also found that the Ministry of Finance will have to be addressed in the first place, as this ministry is key in managing all procedures related to public-funded investments and has an overview of all public investments in the country. It would therefore be necessary to inter-resort the way in which the relevant legal provisions are monitored and implemented. That is why the Ministry of Culture intends to propose a joint meeting to the Ministry of Finance, at which we will see the best way to monitor public investment. At the same time, of course, at the Ministry, we are aware that it will also be necessary to proactively monitor the preparation of other legislation relating to the implementation of public investments, especially the opening of the Construction Law. In amending it, the Ministry will endeavour to ensure that the acquisition of a building permit for investments is conditional on the findings of the implementation of the statutory provisions on the compulsory share in the implementation of the investment itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next question will be asked by the mag. Marko Pogačnik, Minister of Finance of Dr. Andre Bertonclj, who is absent. Therefore, I ask the Member to make a statement on the way in which the reply is to be made.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u148	Madam President, thank you for the floor. In view of the absence of the Minister of Finance, I propose that the Minister answer my question in writing within 30 days. I would like to ask the Minister a question concerning the establishment of a demographic fund. The fact is that the Slovenian State Holding Act provides for the transformation of a capital company into a demographic fund by the end of 2015. Today, the beginning of 2020, Slovenia does not yet have a demographic fund that is more needed for both existing and future pensioners. The Minister of Finance answered the same question for me a year ago. He replied that the coalition would do everything in its power to bring this demographic fund to life as soon as possible. The fact is, this government, this coalition, to this day, has not been able to make a demographic fund, which is particularly damaging to all existing and future pensioners. I call on the Minister of Finance again, or ask him: What are the reasons why Slovenia still does not have a demographic fund? When does he think this demographic fund will be established in Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. The next is Mr Jožef Lenart, who will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Nice greetings to all the guests! Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Minister Restovalšek, I am concerned about the realization of the vision of successful tourism Slovenia, in terms of the lack of staff in tourism, especially the professions of waiter and chef, which will lead to stagnation in Slovenia, regardless of the fact that it is one of the most promising sectors. Our homeland is full of natural beauty and cultural sights. The number of overnight stays of foreign tourists is increasing from year to year, which is encouraging. The question that arises to us is, who will be able to present all these beauties to all domestic and foreign guests without a sufficient number of educated workers in catering and tourism. In 2019, there were 5,000 tourists and guest workers in Slovenia, especially cooks, waiters, hotel hosts and receptors. We also lack qualified tourist managers, and in the last ten years fewer admissions to high schools for catering and tourism, even though every hotel, restaurant and inn, as well as excursion farms and resorts, needs cooks and waiters, and more of these personnel. In 2015/2016, these two professions were on the list of deficient professions, and in recent years they have somehow disappeared from this list, and we all know – and so they also say in secondary schools for catering and tourism – that the situation has not improved and there are no staff. A few years ago, students were granted a scholarship on the basis of deficits for the deficit profession. The enrollment increased with this form of stimulation. With those 100 euros of scholarships, students from the periphery more easily graduated from the selected high school. I want to know: Why don't we scholarship students to low-income chefs, waiter? Why do we not limit in hospitality and tourism the number of workers who work through student service in order to achieve better quality services with regular employees? What is the vision of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the Directorate for Tourism in order to improve the situation in the field of these personnel deficits and to keep Slovenia growing towards a successful tourist country?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u152	Dear Members, Members, the President! Dear Member Joseph Lenart, thank you for the question. In Slovenia we face a lack of staff in general, not only in tourism. The fact is that it is a specific profession and specific working conditions in tourism, but one of the reasons for such a situation is also the inappropriate treatment of personnel. As a result, the reputation of the profession in people is low, making it difficult to attract new staff to the restaurant and tourism. We also observe the decline in enrolment in secondary and higher education for hospitality and tourism and the subsequent shift of graduates to other activities. The area of human resources development is primarily within the competence of the IMF and the MIZŠ, which carry out various actions and activities. Our ministry also contributes to improving the situation. In October 2018, the government adopted the Strategy for the Sustainable Growth of Slovenian Tourism 2017-2021, where we should have set ourselves a number of quantitative and qualitative goals that we want to achieve together by 2021. One of the key policies of the strategy is the human resources development policy. Appropriate staff development is therefore crucial for the successful operation of tourist companies and the competitiveness of Slovenian tourism in the international space. We are aware that the people employed in catering and tourism are those who create added value and provide high quality tourism services. Investing in human resources development is therefore necessary to ensure long-term and sustainable development not only in tourism companies but also at destination level. The main source of implementation of the human resources development policy is the close cooperation of the public sector, the tourism economy and all social partners in the area of hospitality and tourism. The first key area of action is vocational education in catering and tourism, where the objectives are achieved through initiatives to introduce new school hotels, update professional standards and consequently school and study programmes in cooperation with the Centre for Vocational Education. The project aims to identify the necessary skills and skills for successful and competitive Slovenian tourism in line with modern trends that will be completed this year. Another key area of action is the promotion of vocational education in the field of tourism, where, together with the ministries, we want to improve the reputation of catering and tourism professions with promotion. The third key area of action is the provision of education and training at the workplace in tourism, where the objectives, together with the Ministry of Education, are achieved by setting inter-enterprise training centres for vocational and tertiary education. As we are also more aware of the importance of properly educated and trained staff at the Ministry, through the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia we have been implementing for a number of years a measure of co-financing of vocational and professional education, for which we devote EUR 400,000 annually. Through this measure, we give students from different professions the possibility of concrete work in the working environment and enable them to acquire the necessary professional competences. In this way, employers can form and get to know their future frame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Member, please, you have a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u154	Thanks again for saying that. Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for your answers. As you said, human resources development policy, participation and training, as well as co-financing. Okay, so, things are getting better. However, I might still touch on the fact that just a few years ago, the International Organisation Green Destinations or the Green Destination Organisation declared us the world's first green tourist country. We also know that many foreign, as well as domestic, guests are anxious to take vacations in nature, and that is why they are coming more and more. We're talking Circus 2 million nights. And of course from this title comes revenue of EUR 2.5 and 2.7 billion. In general, in the strategy for the development of tourism 2017-2021, you have somehow expressed a desire to approach 4 million with these figures. This isn't the moment. Visits are growing, so I want to know: Is there any other vision of you further, how can we then achieve greater income? What could we do in the field of ski tourism, where we are not so terribly skilled, and in other areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u156	Thank you for the supplementary question. The fact is, if we want to reach EUR 4 billion in revenue from tourism, foreign tourism, we need to make the remaining steps out of the strategy. One key is the implementation of the privatisation of tourist hotel facilities, which are still state owned by 70%. But that's not what I'd like to talk about today. I would like to continue with personnel matters, because the personnel are the key basis for us to get somewhere further down here. We support the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to listen to the needs of the tourism economy and to enable the rapid and easy acquisition of personnel for tourism through the recognition of deficits in some of the professions of hospitality and tourism. We have proposed to include in last year's and this year's scholarships for deficient professions in the field of catering and hotel services, especially cooks, waiters, receptionists, maids, or educational programmes for gastronomy and hotel services, as well as gastronomy and tourism. A key measure of the strategy to improve the situation in the field of tourism personnel is the creation of a new model and a certification scheme for the relevant human resources policy to promote successful employment policy and effective management of personnel in Slovenian tourism. The creation of a new national scheme to promote adequate management of tourism personnel is also a priority for my ministry. It is about the establishment of a so-called blue scheme of the third pillar of sustainability for Slovenian tourism. With the Blue Scheme, we want to improve the scope of available and quality staff for tourism and improve the problem in this area. The first results can be expected by the end of this year and there will be important contributions from examples of good staff management practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u157	Thank you very much. We're moving on. The next one is Mrs Natasa Sukić. She'll ask the Minister of Culture a question. Mr Zoran Poznic and Minister for the Environment and Space of Mr Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greeting, Minister! In 2009 he fell to the famous Colosseum, the protected cultural monument. The Ministry of Culture has conditioned the collapse or destruction of this monument by building a multi-purpose cultural hall. This was the so-called compensatory measure, in addition to two others, one was that, at half a million funds, the investor had to pay for the preparation of the documentation for the reconstruction of the sugar plant and another 250 thousand euros for the partial renovation of the roof of the sugar plant. This is how the matter is supposed to be levelled. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Culture has not defined in this agreement the size of this multi-purpose hall and it is now envisaged at the OPPN that this multi-purpose cultural hall should have a minimum of 400 square metres of usable space, away from, say, a thousand 500 viewers. But that's not even the worst. The worst part is that the investor now asks the Ljubljana Municipality for an amendment to the OPPN, in a way that would untie it to build this multi-purpose cultural hall. What is most sad is that, according to the new investor idea, a luxury hotel was built there, and the halls were no longer. The Municipal Municipality of Ljubljana municipality has already informed the Ministry of Culture about the initiative of the applicant and asked for your opinion. Dear Minister Poznits, I am interested in: What is your position with regard to the broken Colosseum and the investor's request that luxury apartments and hotels be built instead of a multi-purpose cultural hall? Will you give up the requirement to build a multi-purpose hall? If you don't, what are the sanctions for an investor if he doesn't stick to you? Because I believe that you probably entered this countervailing measure into the contract. At least I guess, I hope so. I also want to know: Will our cultural monuments fall in this way in every new building of capital moguls? Minister Zajc, I'm also asking you about the Collision. The MOL room management department is expected to start the site verification process. They are currently expected to obtain the opinion of the competent space regulators. Minister Zajc, I ask you: What is really going on with the Collision? Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u160	Madam Member, thank you for this question. From the beginning. In connection with the fallen Colosseum, it has been said more or less loudly in the National Assembly that the professional position of the memorial protection service and the proposal of appropriate destination have been repeatedly proclaimed in various ways by various pressures, particularly political ones. The then policy in power achieved this through various channels and really overrun our memorial service. From here on followed some sort of guided disregard for the monument until the moment its situation was such that in 2009 our ministry issued a cultural protection agreement to explore and remove heritage. This agreement allowed the removal of the cultural monument, the palace of Colosseum. Of course, compensatory measures were also imposed on this decision, namely, that, as you have already rightly stated, the central place in the new facility which it intends to build on the site of the removed cultural heritage unit must be devoted to cultural activities. As a second such compensatory measure, the financier was required to finance the construction of a project documentation for the Ljubljana Cuparna monument worth half a million euros, which was also paid within 30 days of receipt of the bill, and to finance the reconstruction of the roof of the Sugar factory worth 250 thousand euros, which has already been implemented. So the cultural protection agreement is legally binding. So now there is nothing to do back here, and this compensatory measure, the first and most important to me, is that in the palace it is necessary to devote space to cultural activities, the hall, as you said, of course, is still valid. However, both other compensatory measures from the second and third indents have been implemented, as I have already said. The compensatory measure referred to in the first indent, which provides that the centre of the new facility which intends to build instead of the removed monument shall be dedicated to cultural activities, shall be monitored through our services, through the existing OPPN in which this obligation is stated, and shall remain as it is for the time being. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Mr. Zajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u162	Thank you. Most of them have already been answered by the minister. As far as the procedure is concerned, I cannot provide data at this time, because I do not have them exactly, but they are also opinionators. So if they insist on this opinion, this will be taken into account. On the other hand, in general, you do not need a building permit for the demolition of the Construction Law alone, but you need an opinion from the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage whenever you interfere with a property that is culturally protected. Without that, you can't even change the smallest things. It's the same here. So, in this case, the ministry will be invited to an opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Request for a reply, Mrs. Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to put this subject of the Collision on something else, which is what connects these things. We know that for 25 years we have witnessed the manoeuvring of the housing strategy and the corresponding housing policies, which would ensure housing for all that wild privatisation has so easily undermined, have literally undermined the foundations of public housing policy. And unfortunately, there is also a gentrification here that has a profoundly negative impact on the local community, on social cohesion, on the availability of affordable housing for the local community and so on. Gentrification is the one that transforms streets or urban areas into some higher-class spaces, causing increasing class differences. The problem is not only more expensive services, the problem is extremely high rents and exceptional, literally astronomical prices per square metre of new apartments. People, of course, are forced to retreat to the city’s slopes or to degraded areas of the city because of these facts. Of course, this decomposes local communities, disintegrates solidarity networks, and thus weakens the quality of their lives in a new location. One of the most in the sky - absorbing cases of gentrification is this very story, the sad story of the new building on the site of the Colosseum. In fact, 127 luxury apartments will be built here at a cost of between 5,000 and 7,000 euros per square meter. Dear Minister Zajc, I'd like to ask: Do you have any study to analyze the harmful effects of gentrification? How are you going to get your hands on these real estate barons? Are you planning to do something? Dear Minister Poznits, I am interested in: How many objects with cultural monument status were destroyed in Slovenia and Ljubljana due to new constructions? Is this the way to protect our cultural heritage, to allow it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Minister Late, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u166	Thank you. Of course, the Ministry of Culture does not allow this and in fact we do so in a way that ensures as much basic and intangible cultural heritage as possible. I must point out that there are approximately 30,000 units in the Republic of Slovenia that are under different levels of protection and protection. I must also say that in almost 20 years we will all release protection with about 0.9% of these units. For example, Norway, one of the most well-known, rigorous countries in the field of the protection of the basic cultural heritage, has this percentage there about one, one or more, meaning that in Slovenia, even in all these years of crisis, we are very restrictive in this area. I must say that, as far as I know, no facility under the protection of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage has been destroyed, except, of course, the College, which I once again say was a political decision, has not been destroyed or undermined. However, we must also be aware that this 0.9% of the facilities are in fact not only because of the degraded environment in which they are located, but mainly because of the time teeth. Not on purpose, but because many things in the local community are left to the teeth of time. As far as gentrification is concerned. Of course, we also see this problem, which is much broader than the activities of our services and our institution at the Ministry of Culture. This is a deeper sociological problem, a deeper general social problem if you want to, which interferes with the activities of other decision makers in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Minister Zajc, you have a few seconds left.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u168	Thank you. Gentrification is essentially a representation of the gap between the rich and the poor in space. When I answered the question of Commissioner Möderndorfer and Rajić regarding the construction of neighbors, I made it clear already in that reply that although I cannot formally ban it, I do not think it is appropriate for our society to build such neighborhoods. But we're actually lucky in the crash that, given that we have a high level of equity housing, even when this process occurs, the effect is actually smaller than in the Western world. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u169	Mr. Zajc, your time has run out. Mrs Sukič has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u170	Yes, I have a procedural proposal. There have been demonstrations in front of Parliament today, I do not know if they are still taking place. Protests against policy ignorance in solving the housing crisis. So let's face it at last. We have a serious problem ahead of us, and this is the lack of adequate housing policies for the last quarter of the century. Now, however, mad, literally insane tourism and gentrification are joining. From here all these increasing class differences are coming, from here there are increasing numbers of those who have neither food nor roof over their heads, which is actually terrifying. Of course, we didn't know gentrification as such in former socialist cities. Even after our independence in the '90s, we didn't talk about it. It came later because the industry also withdrew relatively late from the cities and left degraded areas behind. Now, unfortunately, we are overwhelmed by a wave of this gentrification, which unfortunately does not stop at anything. As it is said, the cultural monuments of the highest rank are first privatized and then demolished, as in the case of the Colosseum. Or they are privatized and let go of decay if the investor does not achieve the desired capital effects, such as the Plečnik stadium behind Bežigrad. The so-called right to the city is increasingly being taken to the local population. That is why we must speak seriously here in the National Assembly about how to protect our cultural monuments from capital appetites. That's one. Another is how to protect people from the devastating effects of gentrification and tourism. How to tackle these effects on the real estate market, therefore, in the housing market. There should be appropriate, decisive policies here and, of course, there should also be funds which unfortunately in this budget for the next two years are not enough for me, Minister, as you know, to build enough non-profit housing to start regulating the market somehow. On the other hand, we also have good examples of practices from abroad, such as the Berlin practice of how they blocked or regulated short-term rentals – simply by limiting the number of apartments that are being rented for tourist purposes. We need to ask ourselves here in this meeting what is the price of a quality apartment that can be afforded by someone on a minimum wage, a minimum pension, I don't know, on social assistance, on a minimum student hourly basis. These are our people, they need to be protected, not constantly thinking about how the market will save everything. I therefore propose that we hold a debate so that, as in the case of the climate crisis, we do not postpone these key policies to 2050, somewhere in the futuristic future. I really suggest that we get serious about this in the National Assembly [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. Your time's up. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. We're moving on. Mr Franz Kramar will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pical. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! I'm sorry that I witnessed what happened in the National Assembly today. My initiative or idea or question was a project that required a lot of political support. Since this is not the case at this time, the government is without a President, and I don't think this question would be appropriate today either. That is why I have decided not to put it on you, but I will hand over three studies relating to this issue to you, and I ask you to examine them and to speak perhaps in four eyes about the idea itself. So I'm solving your answer today.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Minister, perhaps you'd like to respond anyway? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u174	I will only thank the Member of Parliament – thank you very much. It's a matter of playing the Winter Olympics. What we've been talking about before. And it is true, it is a first-class political and, above all, sports event, which requires full support, more than full support. So thank you very much for this, and I will be happy to take a look at it, and also to those who will come after me, I will hand it over as part of the package. So thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We're moving on. Mag. Dejan Kaloh will ask the Justice Minister Andreja Katič. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u176	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister Katich! In Zagreb last week, together with other justice ministers, you highlighted the importance of strengthening the EU's common values, including the rule of law. Of course, this is something to agree with. I would now like to point out that, in the context of the rule of law, article 24 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia also belongs. Of course you do. It is a matter of stipulating that the judgments and sentences of judgments are public. We have recently seen that not all judgment is subject to this or that it comes, not to say, to some form of concealment, intentional or predestined. I am talking about this resounding courtroom in the case of Moroccan Ali Safini, who has already been convicted of violence and robbery against women. This judgment is still not fully available to the public, but it is a robbery, it is said, that there is no restriction. Here the public rightly wonders whether illegal migrants in these judicial proceedings are treated differently than our Slovenian citizens, why such patronizing treatment of those convicted. I'm explicitly interested in: How will you, as Minister of Justice, ensure consistent respect for Article 24 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia that the judgments and sentences of judgments are actually public, say that the public has the right to look into these judgments? Once again, I would like to stress that I am only talking about this sentence of robbing Slovenian citizens, not about the fact that the same person committed sexual violence against two students. Thus, we remain only here and there is, I stress, no legal restrictions either under the Personal Data Protection Act or under the General Data Protection Regulation. So there is no limit to such a judgment being made public. This was a problem for journalists, as did writers in Legal Practice. Clearly, it is a subject that is very hot, it is said that this article of the Constitution is being violated and that the courts themselves are in some way preventing the publication of these judgments. I also want to know: How will you allow judgments based on the Constitution to be public? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u178	Thank you, Member, for that question. Maybe just this. Article 24 of the Constitution states that court hearings are public and that judgments are handed down in public. In all courts you have a schedule of current hearings where it specifies exactly what the procedures are, what the cases are and who the defendant is. Except in those cases where he is a legislator, the National Assembly, under the Criminal Procedure Act, the Judicial Procedure Act, has provided for the Administrative Dispute Act that the public may be excluded. So, the trial is public. It doesn't say that judgments are made public. Judgments must also be anonymized because of the rights of the victims. This is happening in the higher courts, but we cannot guarantee it at the lowest level, on the first level, even because we have about 50,000 decisions a year. As part of this, it is possible for the Judicial Supervisor to predict too quickly that he will be able to learn the algorithm so quickly that he will be able to anonymize it in a relatively short time and that we will also be able to present it to the public. But not for the public to dispute the individual decision, but for the purpose of unifying the case law. But we can certainly see for ourselves – as part of this last week, a meeting in the courts with an information officer, including with the members of the Ministry of Justice – that another step has to be taken here in terms of the representation of the public's judiciary. You yourself know that many times I have called on all judicial stakeholders to present all their decisions to the public in an understandable way, it is said why a decision has been taken. When a judgment is delivered, the sentence of the judgment shall be read publicly in the criminal procedure, the reasons for such a decision shall be explained briefly and the sentence of the judgment shall always be read in a public session. Even if the public was excluded in the proceedings itself. However, the presence of the public may then be excluded for a more detailed explanation. This initiative is certainly necessary – it is now in law so, different opinions of the information officer, other procedures – that a decision will be taken to address this in the context of the revision of the Law on Courts. We already have an initiative. You know that in the context of the change in the justice network, the introduction of a single judge, we are also discussing this, and I believe that we will continue our work. On Wednesday we have a meeting with the representatives of the judiciary, with the Council of Justice, and I think that the judiciary will join us to deal with these changes. However, it will certainly be part of these changes in the new Law on Courts as well, as regards how we must have public judgments as such in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Kaloh, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u180	Thank you, Vice President. Madam Minister, we all agree that there are still urgent improvements to the public in the field of trial, the sentence of judgements and the placement of judgments in the public domain. In Austria, for example, they do not have a problem in lower courts. Even in the browsers of district and district courts, it is actually possible to obtain judgments that the interested public and journalists, as well as those involved in the proceedings, need. There are no problems, except in those cases that you yourself have talked about where the delicacy makes them dark, I don't know, many times last names, the real one remains the name and only the initial name, so that in fact there are no problems abroad with this public judgment. However, I am interested, but I could not avoid feeling that they were going to this particular case for some political reasons at the District Court in Ljubljana's hideout because it was still an illegal migrant. Maybe because politics — I don't know if I'm saying it in quotes — welcome immigrants proved to be wrong. Because then we saw that these migrants in our society did not feel that they would still be able to integrate here, if they had already come to us and applied for asylum, then they preferred to commit crimes. So this is where I'm afraid it's political hide-and-seek. In this particular case, where the judgment was legally concluded, in the course of the robbery of two Slovenian citizens, I am interested in: Will you, within your jurisdiction as president of the District Court, ask any questions? Are you, as you said earlier, going in a set of further steps along this more loose track or will you also explicitly ask the president of the District Court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u181	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u182	Thank you. I have great respect for the independence of the courts. I've said this a lot. At times, some minister of justice made a joke to call the judiciary on Wednesdays to decide what kind of matter — and I don’t have any hope of joking about it. However, it must certainly be any case, any anomaly that occurs in practice considers as the current Minister of Justice a sign that we need to see whether we have legislation properly regulated or not. As far as specific cases are concerned, our practice is always like this: if we get to the Ministry of Justice any question that does not fall within our competence, we shall waive it to the competent authority. This is how we contact the media. But I said that when we find out – and here we have the initiative and we are already changing legislation – we will also do so. Even on your part, I think we've got some questions. These questions will also be dismissed to the Supreme Court, which will prepare everything that will then be the basis for our answer or answer to the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Member of Parliament, procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u184	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. However, I will take advantage of the business option. I propose that a general discussion be held at the next meeting on the Minister's response, because I believe that the rule of law in this context I have been talking about is being initiated. I request a general discussion at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u185	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. We're moving on. Mr Jožef Horvat will ask the Minister of Health, Mr Aleš Šabedra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister of Health, Mr Aleš Šabeder, I welcome you! Let me remind you. In September 2017, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Intervention Measures to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. We're talking, we both know, about about 136 million euros for the financial rehabilitation of hospitals or health institutions. At that time, New Slovenia did not support this law because too many questions were raised, which we do not have answers to today. Now it's complicated. People, the public knows that some hospitals should pay money back. Mr Minister, I have instructions from the Ministry of Health which were received by hospitals or health establishments in 2017, i.e. those institutions which were legally entitled to funds for rehabilitation. These guidelines also explicitly state that the Office of the Republic of Slovenia should revise its expenditure by May 2018. By May 2018, hospitals or institutes had also carried out an external audit, as instructed by the Ministry of Health, which, according to my information, did not show an irregularity in most cases. However, the Office did not start monitoring until autumn 2018 and continued with certain hospitals until last summer. I also have new instructions from the Ministry of Finance or the Office for Budgetary Control from last summer, which I believe are unique in this country. Why do I have to run away? Because it's instructions that are supposed to apply two years ago. The director of the institution or hospital, who has therefore followed the instructions of the previous government, can now be sanctioned with a high fine of up to EUR 10,000. And that's only because the government has changed. Indeed, not only in the country, but also in the European Union or even wider. Those patients who followed the rules and instructions should now take the money back. And in return, you, the government or anyone else, I don't have any information, you've only offered credit to these patients, and I believe you've communicated it through the media. This is not nearly the same as the irreparable financial aid. What kind of signal from the government is that? The signal is very clear and it's worse when you're, you get more money. Mr Minister, please explain to the Slovenian public, in particular: How will you solve the problem with funds for the financial rehabilitation of hospitals or health institutions? I know you inherited it, it's not the easiest thing for you, but it's public tax money. Thank you in advance for your explanations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Thank you for the question, honourable Member. It is true that 2017 adopted the Law on Intervention Measures to Ensure the Financial Stability of Public Health Institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, from which Slovenian hospitals received almost EUR 136 million for payment of outstanding liabilities. That's how it went. The service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for legislation is 13. 1. 2020 confirmed the position of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health in order to include all claims due up to 30. 11. 2017, so until the funds are received. However, we are at a meeting with the Minister of Finance on 14. This year, 1st year, they highlighted the issue of the reimbursement of hospital funds mentioned where inspectors, under the Law on Intervention Measures, have found that public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, are inadvertently used. I also stressed that the recovery of funds would exacerbate the liquidity situation of hospitals and, of course, it would be necessary for these five hospitals, which have to repay the funds, to find a new solution. The Ministry of Finance, or the Minister himself, said at that time that they would consider the options to address this liquidity situation. Of course, hospitals were given instructions at the time, or if I tell them that if they get into liquidity problems, they will be in charge of the treasury by the time they find a solution. I'm aware of this problem. In fact, there was a legal void at the time of the intervention law itself. It's hard to say who's guilty now. After all, we inherited this law and in fact it was not determined which part of the claim falls into the intervention law. Therefore it was also necessary to set the date and the date was 30. 11. That was the extreme or the latest date he had — what should I call it? — the legal basis, so that we have settled as many claims as possible over the period. Of course, some of the obligations that hospitals have settled under this law remain, and this is now the problem of the five hospitals ’ recovery. So there is no solution to this moment, but I am aware that I must find this solution for these five hospitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for these explanations. If I understand you correctly, these five hospitals will have to pay back. On this point, I would ask you to make this very clear. This is what these hospitals listen to, listen to the Slovenian public, it's basically a big, huge tax money. I agree with you. You mentioned a legal void. Among other things, because of this legal void — some of which were these voids — we, Nova Slovenija, did not support the marriage. Mr Minister, at the end of 2019, said the end of last year, I believe that four hospitals, which were very illiquid, had again received additional funds to cover liquidity as an extraordinary income, and what with the Government's decision. I want to know: Is it true that four very insolvent hospitals have again received additional funds to cover liquidity as an extraordinary income, by means of a government decision? This then, of course, significantly improved the business outcome for hospitals for 2019. No one knows the basis for this additional financial injection. It is logical that other hospitals will also ask for additional financial assistance, and it is logical that the Minister of Finance must once step on the brake, as he has done in the last few hours, when he has actually made it very clear that the budget bag is not a bottomless bag. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like to respond? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u192	That's right. Last year, several hospitals received funds to improve or secure a stable liquidity situation. These funds were significantly lower, and we will also give you in writing the exact details of which hospitals were and how much resources there were. There were significantly fewer than the claims of these hospitals fell at the time. The Ministry of Health also has an account in its budget each year on the basis of which it has the means to secure the liquidity situation of hospitals. These funds came from this account, including in the financial year 2020 and 2021, these funds are foreseen, which, once again, I must stress, are significantly lower than the funds earmarked by the intervention law for the provision of the liquidity situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, for your words and also for your clear explanations, Mr Minister. Otherwise your information will certainly not be happy, but this is certainly one school case, as the legislator, this institution, must be careful when adopting legislation. I aim, of course, at the law that we will discuss and vote on Wednesday this week. I am taking advantage of the business opportunity to propose to the National Assembly a procedural decision to hold a debate on the relatively high resources of taxpayers. Let me just mention here what we, Nova Slovenija, were having problems when this law, in the autumn of 2017, was adopted. It was noted that the Minister of Health of that time had exercised extra powers beyond her mandate and that the provisions on human resources criteria, financial consequences and the desired effects of recovery were overly loose. We even dared to predict the future. Sanitation of hospitals is likely to be only financial and not substantive again, and here is our key problem in this subsystem, which we call health care. We highly doubted that the same management teams of hospitals, which by then could not, know or be able to improve their operations, better organize their jobs, optimize their costs, lower the inflated prices of materials and medicines, stop corruption and set and meet their demands, how and how well doctors and other employees must work at work, now doing just fine. This is sand in the eyes of the Slovenian public, we said. What the public wants and expects, if it gives more EUR 100 or 200 million for health care – this is a significant reduction in waiting times and species in health care – will not happen again. In fact, from 2017 to the beginning of 2020 it is now seen that we were right at the time. It is therefore quite appropriate to propose that the National Assembly should hold a debate on this issue, which we have discussed with the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. We will decide on your proposal on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Mr Ivan Hršak is next. He's going to ask the Minister of Infrastructure a question. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister! The undeniable fact is that Slovenia does not meet and will not achieve certain green energy targets, i.e. electricity generation from renewable energy sources. As signatories to the international Kyoto Protocol, we have committed ourselves to have up to 20% of electricity on the balance sheet by 2020 and 25% of gross final energy consumption from the EEE. In addition, until 2035, the closure of the TES is also promising, which means that, in addition to the lack of targets set for the share of renewable energy sources, we will face one third of the less energy produced. This failure in most other countries would be offset by renewable energy sources, and we will be more than likely to fail. In order to replace such a large energy hole and achieve the environmental goals set in our country, we planned to build several hydro power plants on the Central Sava, build wind power plants, build solar power plants, and build a new block of NEK. Let me add here that a new block of nuclear power plant itself could fully compensate for the loss of production from the TEC. However, those who already carry out or still wish to carry out renewable energy projects face obstacles posed by various NGOs and societies, which, by all means, hold back projects to help us achieve our environmental objectives. As an example, I would like to mention the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant, which is the last hydroelectric power plant on the lower Sava, but its completion, although I hope, has temporarily set up a marginal environmental society which receives state resources for its operation, even though its operation is inefficient, to the detriment of the State, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. As competent energy ministers, of course, you are aware of the undeniable fact that we have an extremely large problem in Slovenia, which is caused by various, as I said, NGOs, and we have societies that are opposed to virtually all ways of producing electricity from the OVE, which is a kind of absurdity. They want green energy, but at the same time they're stopping it. Last year, Prime Minister Marjan Sarec said that it would be necessary to review the list of non-governmental organisations operating and to identify which they actually operate in contravention of the interests of the State and citizens and, of course, to act accordingly. I personally agree with that. I want to know: How do you view the issue of non-governmental organisations and societies that do not operate in a country-efficient manner, particularly with regard to electricity generation? How far is the development of a national energy climate plan? In particular, what does it say, so in what way should Slovenia seek to achieve the necessary energy production targets from the OVE? I am particularly interested in wind power plants and the construction of hydro power plants in central Savi. I also want to know: What is the specific timetable for the treatment and adoption of NEPN? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Today I will be in this Chamber for the third time, but I am pleased to say that NEPN, the national energy climate plan, is now publicly open. As of 17 January, this public decomposition is under way, and tomorrow we will have a public presentation with Minister Zajec or we will participate in a public presentation and a meeting of opinions. The aim is to confirm the NEPN in the Government by the end of February. The timeline now shows that it could be. The fact is that energy-related decisions need to be paid attention. The fact is that energy, our Slovenian energy, is in a very good position right now. Probably because of the decisions that were made a long time ago. I always stress that planning – and this is a long-term, medium-term, long-term planning, because we will map the way of Slovenian energy by 2030 or, in some way, even by 2040 – is ambitious, but at the same time realistic. As you have already said, Mr Member, we will not achieve the specific goals that our country has set. This is a fact today, so to speak, and that is why we will be subject to specific financial penalties. And here we are really talking about a specific financial penalty. Not everything is lost, we are still trying, because, after all, we now have calculations by the end of 2017, certain things can change, but when we prepare documents when we write down goals, specific goals, of course, we have to say how. I will now tell you what is said in this document, which has been made public, particularly with regard to OVE or renewable energy sources. NEPN foresees a 27 % overall target for the share of renewable energy sources in Slovenia in 2030, with a 43 % share of EEE in the electricity sector being achieved. For 2030, NEPN plans to operate jointly in Slovenia for a thousand 650 megawatts of solar power plants, 150 megawatts of wind power plants, a thousand 199 megawatts of hydropower plants, 90 megawatts of power plants on wood biomass and 34 megawatts of biogas power plants. I think the fourth version of this document is under consideration. The fact is, there are changes among the individual versions. A lot of experts have participated in the preparation of this document, and an environmental report has also been prepared for this document, which means that we have also checked all the things written in it from the point of view of the environment whether they are acceptable or not. And since the environmental report for hydroelectric power plants in the Central Sava has established a D code, which means that they are not environmentally acceptable in such a form, they are not currently included in the calculations of renewable energy sources by 2030. This does not mean, of course, that we will not continue our activities in this area. Our task is to find out what measures we can take to ensure that the damage in the environment is minimised. This document will be amended and supplemented in any way. It is already envisaged that a supplement will be made in 2023, and I believe that by then we can provide compensatory measures in such a way that the environmental report will also find that hydroelectric plants in the Central Sava are acceptable to our country. As far as society is concerned in the public interest, I can say, honourable Member, that I very much agree with you that it is necessary to define those societies which are indeed working in the public interest. We had the case of the president of the company who once worked on one side, on the other hand. But with this legislation, I'm not happy as Minister of Infrastructure. The Prime Minister of the Government has repeatedly said that we will handle this, but unfortunately we haven't settled these things yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u200	Just one quick question, Minister. Hydro power plants in the middle of Savi. I don't think we can put everything in the same basket there. Hydropower plants Suhadol, Trbovlje, Renke from the point of view of Nature 2000 are not disputed as far as I know. But now, in fact, this is given to everyone. If you can explain this because I was convinced that the first three, and I am still sure, are not controversial from an environmental point of view, but the rest of me and there should be something done. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u202	Thank you for this opportunity. Only these three were envisaged in the national energy and climate plan as they could not be done by 2030. Thus, these three are also at issue from the point of view of the environment or the environmental report. And for these three we will have to find – and I believe that we will find, as we have found in Brežice as we will find in Mokricah – compensatory measures to ensure that these hydropower plants are environmentally acceptable. But this will follow.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Kepa will ask the Minister of Infrastructure a question. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u204	Thank you for your word, chairman. I greet the Minister, the Minister, everyone else! Increasing traffic, both freight and passenger, along highways and other state roads, is observed by all those who drive on them daily. At the end of the morning and then on the return, the situation is unsustainable, while waiting in the columns, we often think of the Minister of Infrastructure and her assistants. Freight traffic is greatly increasing due to increased production in companies, as well as transit transport. Modernisation of railways could reduce freight and, above all, passenger traffic along motorways. In 2000, there were 2,000 heavy vehicles on the most heavily loaded sections, 7 to 8 thousand in 2010, and today they are well above 10,000. The cycle of remodeling was once between 15 and 20 years since the construction of new ones, and now these cycles should be shorter. During the ride, there are more and more bitumen lines on the highways, as well as wheels, especially heavy vehicles, that make them feel the wear of the vehicle. For many years, the builders warned that the rule, the golden rule, should be adopted for six years to spend resources, approximately the same every year in six years in order to plan production and work would be more continuous. According to the request of the construction workers, in 2017 only a six-year rule was adopted for the maintenance of state roads from 280 million to 290 million each year. This rule lasted three years, with last year's budget for this year and the second year it was reduced to about 210 years or more. Experts advise that a circus of 250 kilometers [250 km] of state roads should be restored in whole or in part annually. Of course, climate conditions help to rob and destroy roads, from the high heat of summer, when asphalt is partially softened, to the low winter temperatures of winter. Around the new year, promises were made that this additional money would also be provided for road rehabilitation, but we were almost all disappointed at the budget because of the reduction in funds for new construction and rehabilitation and maintenance of roads. I want to know: What will you do in the area of road renewal and maintenance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u206	Thank you very much, honourable Member. In view of what's happening today, I personally probably find it very difficult to do a lot. I can say that I agree with you that there should be a constant source of funding that would not change from year to year and would not depend on annual policy. This is not because of the wish of the builders – I stress in particular, although you said that a six-year plan had been prepared for the wish of the builders — not at all, but because of the need. Unfortunately, even when the budgets for 2020 and 2021 were adopted, I was not heard. But I say that by what we have, by what the National Assembly has determined, we will do as much as we can. I am ready, and I have already sent it into the government procedure, the law on the so-called infrastructure fund, which would precisely determine the resources and would not be this intentional transfer of money from year to year. What's going on and on now is not going to be tolerated. In short, this would be the first step to ensure a constant source, and it should probably be seen that these resources, which are already earmarked today, are fees for the registration of tolls, charges and so on, perhaps further upgrades with some constant source for this part. I'd like to draw your attention to one more thing. We also talk a lot in this National Assembly about how we should, and I agree, give even more attention to rail infrastructure, because this way we could unload the roads. Railway projects are planned even more in the long run and are even more expensive, which means that the way to these projects is even more complicated, but this cannot stop us. I expect – on Wednesday I have a meeting with the working group, which I appointed as a strategic view of the development of Slovenian railways – that I will get this proposal so that I can present it here in the National Assembly, to see how to proceed with Slovenian infrastructure. I certainly agree with you that a stable source of funding for infrastructure projects is important because these are not projects from today to tomorrow. These are projects that are planned in the long run. The path to the goal is long, the project needs to be prepared, the land needs to be redeemed, calls need to be made for contractors, which is also not an easy way to go in our country to the end. I hope that I will be able to present this law to you in a short time, including your Group of Members, and that we may do something good for the future of our country together.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a supplementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u208	Thanks for the answer. I'm getting better, it's not just for the builders, it's basically a plan for everyone, and the builders and the government plan for continuous reconstruction. Thank you for your answer, but as you yourself mentioned, if the railway were to be modernised across the street or if some bend had been straightened out before, the cargo would have been transferred to the railway and unloaded the roads. But today we're talking about roads and it's also very hot. I want to know what you yourself have mentioned, if you will ever come to us to explain the matter: What is the timetable for achieving higher rail targets as well as renewals? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u209	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u210	As I said, if we are talking about the rail network and this working group that I have appointed, this working group is supposed to present to me on Wednesday, I suppose, some of the results they have come up with, what, until when, how much money would be needed for this. Of course, the National Assembly is the one who ultimately decides because these projects are money-related. And as I said before, rail projects, renewals or new construction of railways are even more expensive than road construction. However, for the future, climate change or the environmental objectives that we set ourselves will be increasingly important projects. I am pleased that this autumn will be the final link between Maribor-Ljubljana. With the new train, the journey from Maribor to Ljubljana is expected to take about an hour and a half, which is already very comparable to the road connection, even if it is a little crowded. So I think things are moving in the right direction. But I can probably agree with you that we would like things to move a little bit faster there. It is true that this year's adopted budget is historically high. I have nothing more than to agree with you that more money could be spent on infrastructure projects in this historic budget, because it would be good for all of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u211	Thank you very much. You have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u212	Thanks for the answer. Nevertheless, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity for the National Assembly to hold a debate on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 29 January in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Jana Ivanuša will ask the Minister for Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ministers and ministers, distinguished present in the Chamber! I will ask the Minister of the Environment. The Director of the Environment Agency claims that Arso would need 15 jobs to work more effectively. Arso is expected to cover 600 regulations, which, with 85 staff members with 6,000 procedures per year, are almost unable to manage. I want to know: Will the Ministry grant Arss a request for new jobs, and when? There are a number of foreign participants in the Environment Agency's procedures, and we have heard about this before. There are three types of foreign participants. One is those who are involved in the payment process, the other are involved in the process of their own promotion, and the third are at least a number of constructive party participants are, therefore, not for money and not for their own promotion. I also want to know: How and when will the Ministry limit the participation of party participants? Would it be possible to exclude from the process by party participants who in past proceedings provided false or misleading data? Why is it simply not a financial penalty for harmful side parties? Why does the state finance NGOs, which then impede the country's implementation of State-important infrastructure projects? Although the Minister of Infrastructure claims that Arso is not exactly responsible for the long-term implementation of infrastructure projects. We have been informed that investors make incomplete applications to often ask investors to extend their deadlines so that investors do not prove that investors are often on leave. I'm asking you: Why does the Ministry not change the law so that it will not be possible to extend the deadlines indefinitely? If the investor does not have all the documentation, his role should simply be discarded as incomplete. I also ask you: Can the Ministry make public the most frequent shortcomings of the applications and requests coming to Arso? If the investor is Dars or the Infrastructure Directorate, the personal names of those who cannot fulfil the applications should also be published. He says it's possible for anyone to write an environmental impact assessment. This type of work is not professional; abuses are possible, so the ministry should arrange it. In this regard, I am interested in: When will the Ministry change the law so that environmental impact reports can only be prepared by qualified experts? I'm asking for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u216	Thank you for your word and thank you for asking. One bigger picture. Any director or body in the structure or inside the house, when talking to me, when we have our annual conversations, everyone tells me the same thing first — that they have too little staff. Every single one of them. In most cases, this is true, or at least to a certain extent, and then there is a reserve for better organization of work, and for a little look at where we have legislation so written that we are really needlessly prolonging procedures. But Arso is one of those bodies in the Ministry of Environment and Space, which is really overloaded, immediately behind him is an inspection, which also lacks a lot of personnel. Inspection is also important in the sense that you can have the best possible legislation, if you don't have the people who control it, it's like you practically wouldn't have it. But if we go back to Arsa. Arso will be my number one priority. The narrowest throat on Ars was identified in previous procedures. These are the procedures where Arso assesses whether or not it is necessary to make an environmental impact assessment for an environmental intervention. And since there were so few people here, these procedures have dragged on six, eight months, one year, even more than one year, to decide whether Arso will need an environmental impact assessment. And if the answer is yes, then it is an environmental impact assessment, which prolongs again, and this is a nightmare for investors and for the country in general. That's why I decided to go ahead with the preliminary procedures first, so I put some people from the Ministry on the previous procedures at Arso, then we got some footage from the Water Institute, I asked the other ministers if they had anything that they wanted to do and they would know how to do it to lend them to us, and I really got, I think, out of three positive responses and these people are doing a good job. Today we are on the point that the Minister who will come after me will no longer have any backlog in previous procedures. These measures, this reinforcement is well-known in that we will be in the middle of February already within a two-month period when we have to close the preliminary procedure, which I think is a very important thing, especially because in about 95% of the cases of previous proceedings, we will eventually find that the PSC is not needed. So it's really important that we get these preliminary procedures done as quickly as possible. The human resources reinforcement itself is not my decision, it is the government's decision when it comes to a human resources plan. You know how it is. Whenever mention is made of the number of employees in the state administration, we are quickly informed that there are too many. I believe that many of them are that many people hide well for another, but, as I have already said, for Arsa according to the number of regulations, given what the investment cycle is now, we really need more people. Every time it's time, and even when it's not, I'm sending out requests and requests for the approval of this increased staff plan for Arsa, an inspection, and then for the Water Directorate, which is also important when it gives its consent to various investments. With regard to the parties themselves in the proceedings, however, as to when we are going to change this, given today's situation, I do not think it matters what I say right now. But I think it's important to know two things. NGOs working in the interest of environmental protection, we need them, we need them. That's a fact. It is also true that abuse occurs and that mechanisms of selection will need to be better incorporated into the legislation. I agree with that. How? We've had to look at foreign arrangements and I think we're going to have to bury a little bit that when such abuses occur, it's either somehow being punished or depriving ourselves of status or not. But once again, we need these organisations, because otherwise they can go in the very wrong direction. I work well with them, I have a council of NGOs in our ministry, and I must say that these are the right ones to work with. In fact, I support such dialogue and I think we need it. For those of the bad ones, it will be necessary to find a way to prevent them from stopping the projects. With regard to errors themselves, there are shortcomings in roles. We're aware of that. This is another part that we are already doing on Ars, which is that we have already published how these roles need to be properly prepared, which are the most frequent mistakes. We sent this to the Chamber of Commerce, which has also published this in its newsletter. At the same time, we are doing education for opinionators, and this is the part where you can organisationally correct the fact that the roles will be complete as soon as possible and that this will not continue indefinitely and that they are so ready to make a quick decision. Because that's the big man you're looking for. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a request to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u218	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for your explanations. I believe that we are all of us today with the same answer, but some strange situation today has happened that perhaps everything will be stopped again somewhere, not only on this part of the government, but on the whole, completely. I find it difficult to accept the fact that last year the state administration increased by 3 000 668 jobs, but this is about 15 people who really need to move this story on Ars a little bit in a positive direction. For example, the Food Security Authority also needs 50 food inspectors arriving in Slovenia, simply because the Government does not provide these experts. On the other hand, we hear how many of them are hired, but I don't know what they're all hired to do, and this state apparatus is spreading like mushrooms in the rain. I don't know. We've heard, bird office, 22 employees. I don't know what they're doing to you, I want to see it, but let's just leave it. Mainly, as you know, Arso is an extremely important body in the execution of all infrastructure projects in the country. Infrastructure, however, is very important for foreign and domestic investors who bring new jobs. This is especially important for us in northeastern Slovenia, where we know that it is a degraded part of Slovenia. That's another thing. At the Environmental Agency they didn't want to tell us anything about the construction of the connection channel C0 in the Municipality of Ljubljana. Minister, I want to know: Why does no one hope to talk publicly about the construction of channel C0 or the environmental problems surrounding the project? And that. Arso made 11 proposals to amend the Environmental Protection Act. I also want to know: Why don't you at the Ministry oppose the inclusion of these changes in the law or prepare a new law on environmental protection? Is it really hard for employees at the Ministry to do something? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u220	Thank you. The Environmental Protection Act is ready. Indeed, that was what I realized as soon as I entered the ministry as Minister, I noticed that in the past there might have been little communication between the authorities in the composition and then between the Directorates in the Ministry. And regulations were adopted, laws were passed that were then difficult to implement in practice. We've found that inspectors can't control it at all or that they're understaffed. And I changed that. Since I've been here, we've also had a special rule in order for these authorities to sit down and coordinate in such cases. They're being hailed by me or my two secretary of state. Because I want to be, when we come to Parliament with the law, all within the Ministry and with the authorities on the same side, that we know what it means when such a law is passed, then in practice that we do not undermine everything that has happened in the past. So since I've been in this ministry, I can say that this practice has improved, that every day we are trying to make this communication as best as possible, and communication has improved, which seems important to me. If I go back to the last questions where I stopped. So, we've found that it's not just enough to increase our staff. I agree, however, that it will be necessary to increase personnel, but you know, when we talk to all the ministers, especially those who have inspections under them – there are inspectors everywhere. There are no inspectors on the job, there are no inspectors on the safe food, there are no inspectors, there will still be people there, I agree, and on Arso. At the same time, let's say there are people missing from the Ministry who issue decisions on water protection areas, and then it's dragged and dragged. These are some areas that have been staffed and will need to be strengthened in the future. With regard to the additions themselves and how the applications should be submitted. That's the other part where Arso's already working hard. We educate employers, we educate investors. However, I agree that in the future it will also be necessary to make a license or something for the trainee to be prepared as necessary. Because these incomplete, poorly prepared roles prolong all these procedures. However, under the Administrative Procedure Act, we need to extend if such a requirement is necessary. But imagine Arso saying that we won't extend it to you anymore, and that it's a big project, that it's a railway, a road. They would have taken me, and probably also Director Arsa, why I'm preventing development. So, depending on how you view a matter when it answers why we allow the extension of time if the role is not perfect. One is that we want projects to come to an end and not to stop them because of such cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u222	Of course I do. But before that, I'd say that's the only thing that bothered me about you, Minister, when you said yes, and that's for the government to decide. You're part of the government, you're the one who has to – or not today – tell the Prime Minister, so, hit the table, and now I need this. Okay, let's let it go. It'll pass. I would simply say that we, the Slovenian National Party's Group, which is really the smallest in Parliament, but still have visited the agency mentioned, Arso. I personally went to see where the environmental assessment of the second part of the fast road Ormož-Ptuj is. Of course, we surprised them with this question, but I hope that we will also get this answer as soon as possible. He hasn't arrived until today. We were there last week, and I tell you, we've heard a lot of interesting things. It's just that the agency works the way it works. We asked the right questions. We got the right answers. But they need to be able to do what they need to do so that these things do not go on indefinitely. But it is an interesting answer that this year we were the only parliamentary group that visited them. That's it. As far as the debate is concerned, in our Rules of Procedure, I would suggest that a broader debate be held on this subject, as there are many problems and dilemmas and so on. And the answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert will raise a question to the Minister of the Interior of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here you go, Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Chairman. Minister, Minister, nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues as well! At first, I must say that I am very disturbed by the questions I am hearing today when we are listening "to the situation today". The situation today is not entirely different, and ministers must do their job to the end. I hope that we will also receive the answers accordingly. That is why I am asking the Minister of the Interior the following question. At the end of the year, news echoed as police officers in their homes visited citizens and citizens just because they liked some alleged controversial publication. You don't even know if it's a pretense. In short, it was an alleged insult to European Ambassador Tanja Fajon. The police visited people in their homes, but they could not tell them what the publication was and when it was to be published. Worse yet, these people have not published these publications, but it is only about liking. On the other hand, we have talked about this today, a well-known statement by Jerne Schromajer, who celebrated Christmas holidays with: “Merry Christmas, in dirty animals”. This was a statement promoting hatred, violence, and intolerance. And when I asked you, Minister, in a written parliamentary question, I received unusual answers. In fact, they indicate that police officers go double-criteria, and this is dangerous terrain. Speaking of which, when I asked how many people came to visit because of the likeness of the party, the answer was no. And people make it clear what the police asked them. On the other hand, in response, you admit that certain people have been visited, but for a different matter. So people didn't even know exactly why they were visited. True, the police were very correct, kind, but in a way it was better to feel as if they didn't know why they were there. I also asked whether the police had already made visits to those who liked the site or the publication of Jerne Stromajer, because among them there were current Members, former Members, and by then the police had not visited anyone. That is why I am really interested in this double criterion — on the one hand, visits to citizens, literally before the holidays, and on the other hand, the public announcement by the Secretary of State, the spread of intolerance, and no visit. Tell me, please, Minister: Is there something going on in this area? What happened to those likes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u226	Madam Member, Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I'm glad you've highlighted the responsibility of us ministers. And of course, the Minister of the Interior is responsible for security in this country and security is our common good from all of us. And of course, for security also all together, you, Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly, also help. That's how it's going to continue, of course. As Minister of the Interior, I must continue to say that I cannot, cannot and must not interfere in specific police procedures. So, what's going on with the questions about Secretary of State of Stromajer of the Ministry of Education, the tasks of police officers, I don't know. In fact, I don't really care, because the police are going to do everything that the law imposes on her and, of course, their profession. In the specific case of Mrs Tanja Fajon, I have already answered your question. It is right here to clarify once again that in this particular case the police have collected notices on the basis of the Criminal Procedure Act, from persons who have previously been identified as users of Facebook or the authors of controversial comments on the conversion of photos of the European Member. Since the exercise of police authority under the police mandate referred to in the second indent of the first paragraph of Article 4 of the Law on the tasks and powers of the police, the said act of the police having the basis of the law does not constitute any intimidation. In a specific case, police reported a crime at the time of arrest 2. Seven. 2018 approach to the investigation of a criminal offence or commenced verification of the particulars. There are nine reports gathered. 8. 2018, in accordance with the 10th paragraph of Article 148 of the Criminal Procedure Act, notified the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana. On the basis of the same prosecution's request, the police collected further notices and re-announced the findings of the communication to the District Attorney's Office, which is 17. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Because the police are 13. 11. 2019 has received a new request from the District Attorney's Office, from which it was based that the offence of official prosecution, whose prosecution is in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 148, has in fact begun to carry out its task in accordance with what, in fact, the Prosecutor's Office has directed it to do. Thus, I do not believe that the police do not act legally, that they do not act in accordance with their powers. I think even in the specific case that you mentioned, the police are doing their job. It is true, however, that it is not on the Minister's part that he interferes with specific procedures. I don't want to, and I never will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Ambassador, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Thanks for the answer, too. As far as intimidation is concerned, you know, it's hard to say that there was no intimidation. You need to know that if some ordinary citizen who lives by all the rules in this country gets into a cop's home somewhere during the holidays, doesn't know what he's come for, even a cop can't tell him exactly what the publication is about, when he liked it, it's unpleasant feelings. These are unpleasant feelings, and they can be perceived as intimidation. I would definitely. I would definitely, and so did those citizens. Once again, the police were right, kind, but still, you know, they're one feeling. You're with cops every day, but some people don't meet them, and they don't want to deal with them in that sense. On the other hand, you have told me in response to the question that there are also notifications and evidence on the record of Jerne Schromajer. That's why I'm asking: Have people who liked this publication been visited? This happened in the former Tanja Fajon. And I wonder if he's here too. I didn't say whether the police are doing their job or not, I'm just saying that until there are any visits to these people, the police have double standards. But that's dangerous and bad, and so I'm just asking you if you might know, given that you gave me some answers, it's just that you're following things around. I want to know: Have they visited these people in their homes? You're saying there's no intimidation here, so there shouldn't be any problem that today we'd already have information about how many people have been visited by the police in this case when it came to the Stromeyer's statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u230	I don't know, honourable Member, what the police are doing in a specific operational matter. In any case, the police have also partly prepared the response to the Ministry and have also stated this, so that this is the information in accordance with the law. They certainly have powers in accordance with their law, the Law on the tasks and powers of the police, which instructs the police to actually carry out their duties. Finally, the police may also collect notices in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act. That's what she's doing. I believe the police are tactful, professional. It is true, however, that I believe that they are doing their job, carrying out their duties in accordance with their respective powers. If you feel otherwise — and of course the citizens themselves — this is why the police appeal procedure is extremely good, including with us at the Ministry of the Interior. All matters are investigated, procedures are transparent, human rights are respected and citizens have this opportunity. This way, I believe that all those who feel hurt have been made by the police in ways that are not close to people or that are not in accordance with the law and powers that the police have, or have been otherwise, disallowed, even prohibited – I believe that all these people will complain. Finally, we have a very large number of these complaints at the Ministry of the Interior, including in the police, and we also deal with them. Many are saved in the reconciliation process itself, because we know that sometimes the heads are a little too hot, but sometimes all you have to do is talk and explain to the citizens what the police are doing. However, I believe that people already know this very well, and if there have been any violations, I believe that people will also use this appeal procedure and, of course, complain about the work and the police procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u232	Thank you so much for saying that. I will now take advantage of what I can use as a Member of Parliament to discuss this and to hold a debate. See, Minister, I, as a believing person, and not least as a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, was in the writing of “the dirty pig” – not only hurt, but I was in the midst of intolerance and hatred. I expect to find out what happened in a specific case. The fact is, procedures are running and it would be nice to know if the police really don't use double criteria. At the same time, on the other hand, there was a visit by police officers in their homes because of a particular appeal. Those are double criteria for me. However, if I were told today that in the case of Stromajer and this record, police officers were already visiting these people in their homes, I would say: “That’s right. The police work on all sides the same." But there are double criteria here, and if we have double standards in the country and it's on the police side, then something's very wrong. Therefore, I really suggest that we hold a debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly on the fact that we are coming to a dangerous field, respected. This is a dangerous field and such things must never be afforded by a repressive authority. Never and never! And we live in a democratic society, at least we say we are a democratic state, then we have to be even more careful about these things. Here people have bad feelings, mixed feelings, and the feeling that they are not the same in this country. That on the one hand, some people can do whatever they want, they can't do anything, and on the other hand, because of the likeness, the conjecture, the alleged resentment, comes home to a policeman who doesn't even know exactly why he's there. Although he's being corrected. Ladies and gentlemen, I really hope that we will hold this debate and that we will not avoid what is the problem at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Mag. Carmen Furman will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Alenka Bratušek and Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Message, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u234	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, Minister! At last June's meeting, I have already pointed out the issue of too long environmental consensus-building procedures, which, of course, has been hampering investment in our country and also the use of European funds. At that time, on your part, the distinguished minister was told that you are aware of this problem on Arso and that you are preparing legislative changes and the reorganisation of personnel in this direction. You said that by the end of last year, you would have made an amendment to the Environmental Protection Act, which you said would have been in public treatment by the end of last year, in order to implement changes to government regulations to speed up procedures and with additional staff in the Environment Agency to ensure a shift towards reducing backlogs. I must say that we have not yet considered changes to the law to date — that is, to speed up these procedures — in the National Assembly. As for staff and government regulations, unfortunately, I do not have specific data or something has already been said to my colleague Ivanus, however. The problem of long-term environmental consent procedures remains and projects are therefore at risk. Here I would particularly highlight those whose implementation or co-financing is also dependent on drawing on the current financial perspective of the European Union, which is slowly ending. One such project is the upgrade of the Prague node. The first application for environmental agreement for this project was submitted to Arso in May 2017 and since then, i.e. two and a half years ago, this project literally stands. The Infrastructure Directorate, as an investor of this project in two and a half years, has failed to obtain your consent, which is the basis for the issue of the building permit, then and on this basis also for the implementation of the project. Dear Minister, I ask you: What about the amendment of legislation to speed up the acquisition of environmental consensus? What are you going to do with the Prague node upgrade project, that it will be fully implemented and that there will be no collapse or reallocation of European funds from the current financial perspective to another project? Will Arso prioritise the process of issuing environmental consent for this project? Ladies and gentlemen, since this is a project of yours that is at risk, I am interested in: Why haven't you been able to obtain environmental consensus in the project of the Prague Highway Upgrade in two and a half years? Are European funds worth €40 million at risk for this project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u235	Thank you very much. I suggest the Minister answers first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u236	Thank you for asking. I'm glad you've been in charge of Ars before, so I won't say it again. ZVO-1, when I announced the end of last year, but then there were quite a few coordinations within the house with regard to Ars and our ministry, so it has been delayed until today when we have a law ready for re-publicisation and inter-departmental coordination. Now we'll see how this goes. Regarding the personnel, I said that what I had at my disposal regarding the personnel within the Ministry, I had already presented them on Ars. We got some from the other ministries, but these people are working on previous procedures, which, of course, is not the same as environmental consent procedures. I would continue to consider Ars all projects owned by Dars or by the DRSI as a priority. Arso is currently in charge of 20 environmental consent procedures, four of which are for transport infrastructure projects. However, it must be said that all infrastructure projects are extremely difficult. For me, for example, it's also accepted by the D.N.N. In addition, in Slovenia we are proud to be a green destination, a green country, that we have almost 40% of our area under the protection of Natura 2000, making it even more difficult or extending all procedures. The ODS procedure itself, if it goes without the slightest obstacles, so that everything is fully invested, as it should be, lasts six months under the legislation, so if everything is okay. But, of course, everything is not always okay, and these procedures also get involved. The most common reasons why these procedures are long-term is that the documentation submitted is formally and substantively incomplete. It is also due to the fact that this type of intervention is being carried out in line with a significant number of land and security regimes that require, each of them, appropriate professional treatment. Then there are many flood-prone areas in Slovenia, where particular documentation needs to be prepared. The granting of the status of a party to persons who apply for entry and show legal interest – in this case, the Authority is obliged to sign the oral hearing, extending the procedure itself for at least three weeks. However, if it does not, it is said that we will reject this status as a party, and this may also result in an appeal to a decision on non-recognition, and then there will be a decision of the second stage to decide on this complaint, and at the time when this decision is taken, the issue of the OCS is not possible. The amendment of the legislation in force during the procedure will also happen to us. The procedure is ongoing, the regulation is amended in the meantime, the law is amended in the meantime and the status is extended again. We have cases, good cases when the environmental consensus process has been concluded in six months, but this is mainly on the account of properly prepared documentation and on the account of the non-participation of party participants in the process and without comments from the public. This was, for example, in the case of the procedure for the extension of the Adria Mobil production hall in Nova Mesto and the environmental agreement procedure for the construction of the logistics centre in the OPPN area in the municipality of Cerklje in Gorenjska. As far as the Prague case is concerned, once again, we are waiting for additions. And while we're waiting for updates, this procedure is underway. When these additions are submitted accordingly, the procedure will be completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Even the minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u238	I'm going to add very briefly. The European funds, until they are exhausted, are in fact at risk, but given that pumping dynamics can be achieved by 2023, I am confident that they will be pumped into this project of 40 million, as envisaged. It might be worth considering when amending legislation to make Arso comment once and for all, but not to make one comment first, but to complete, and then to complete another comment, and that is why it drags on for two or more years. So I believe that in this particular case we will soon be able to make a point. Of course, it is necessary to take a systematic look at how to proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Can we move on? Would you like to complete the question? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u240	Thank you very much for your answers, Your Honourable Minister and Minister. However, I must say that coordination for this project between Ars and the Environmental Consent Directive lasts for two and a half years. My last question was also made clear by the Directorate that, given the time dynamics it is currently, it is slowly under the question of these 40 million European funds to be exhausted. The contract with the contractor was signed six months ago. We have the money provided, and only the environmental consensus is to be given, which therefore lasts unreasonablely for two and a half years. Dear Minister, you have given examples of good practice where, if the country has an interest, you may have issued an environmental agreement within six months. And here's an unreasonable long, two-and-a-half years. I must also tell you that a civil initiative is being established in Prague, which will start to keep abreast of the project. Today you have received letters from the Municipality of Slovenska Bistrica and the National Community of Prague, in which they also require that the project be implemented as soon as possible. So I ask you again: When will environmental consensus be given? What will you do in this case, that this agreement will be issued as soon as possible and that the funds will be used up, this €40 million, and that the project will be implemented in nature? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor. [[advertising from the hall]] Are you going to be a minister first? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u242	I'll be very quick. Believe me, if anyone, I have a first interest in this project being implemented. As I have already said, perhaps the solution is that once an authority requires a complement to everything, not a point at a point, for a point. I am still sure that this money will be pumped until it is pumped, but you can tell me — and you are right — that this can be questioned. In short, our goal is not to draw on European funds, but to implement the project with European funds as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Even the minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u244	That's all I'd like to say is that it wasn't in six months because the country had an interest. The state always has an interest in ending things quickly. In the six months, in these cases, which I mentioned, it was because there were no side participants and because the documentation was well prepared. The roles were quickly perfect. We've been working very well with the secretary since the start. We meet regularly at State Secretary level and meet regularly at Arso with DRSI and Dars. Regular meetings are precisely about helping with these projects, which are important, so that we can get to the fullest possible role as soon as possible. When it is, then such a procedure can be completed. Both the Minister and I are well aware that these are important things, and I also think that there have been such changes, where we have also shown that we know things to the end. However, it is necessary to harmonise everything in accordance with the law or so, so that we can then at some point, where it does not fall in a court of law. We've been through this before, and it's embarrassing. It is therefore important to comply with legislation and to cooperate in an operational manner, not to assume that they are imperfect or that it is possible to know clearly what else is needed in order for such a role to be complete.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u246	Thank you very much. I regret to say that today, with my answers, neither the Minister nor the Minister has convinced me that the project is not seriously threatened. Finally, as can be seen from the government report on the absorption of European cohesion funds from the financial perspective 2014-2020, which states, inter alia, that this investment is included in those operations where more deviations from the planned timetable are detected in the implementation plan and can therefore also lead to the reallocation of European funds from this project for some other purpose at the final stage. I have not heard anything about how you are actually going to activate yourself for this project, for this environmental consensus to be issued as soon as possible. After all, it is an important project, both for the local population and for the economy, to protect the environment; this is a very topical issue. On the other hand, I will say that this 40 million European funds are in the air for its implementation, so I will take advantage of the possibility in the framework of the Rules of Procedure and propose an extended debate at one of the next meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, as part of the vote. Alexander Reberšek will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u248	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. The Minister-General, the latest amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, however, had the right objective, namely to raise the percentage of the dose and consequently the pensions: the elderly, the disabled and the widows. Unfortunately, the law also contains a systemic error: raising pensions only for those who will retire after the law has been enforced. This increase will also take place slowly, gradually, for 6 years. Forgotten and underprivileged pensioners who have retired from the implementation of the ZPIZ-2 until the implementation of this law at a lower rate and therefore have lower pensions than users in comparable jobs with comparable contributions paid. Especially in the last two years, men have been in an uneven position. In addition, men who retire during a six-year transitional period will be disadvantaged and disadvantaged. During the hearing of the Members of New Slovenia, we have tabled amendments twice to allow these users to equalize the amount of pensions with those to be measured by a new, increased dose percentage. Unfortunately, they were closely rejected on the committee responsible. Madam Minister, I ask you: What will you do to eliminate the deprivation and injustice of all of the mentioned beneficiaries of old, disabled and widowed pensions? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u250	Thank you for your word and thank you for asking. In the opening, let me explain that all the solutions in the last novel of the ZPIZ-2G have been prepared in a thoughtful, coordinated manner between the social partners and designed in a way that will not exacerbate the financial sustainability of the pension fund to this extent, in order to ultimately jeopardise the payment of rights from both current and future beneficiaries. With regard to the determination of a higher dose percentage for individuals who have already retired, we also point out that the situation of pensioners cannot be equated with that of insured persons. It should be borne in mind that individuals who have already retired have retired under different conditions than future insurers will. Retirement conditions were milder or the pension base had a shorter period, making pension bases more favourable and consequently higher pensions. I would like to point out that individuals retire in accordance with the rules applicable on the day of retirement, which means that both the conditions for retirement and the amount of the pension are determined in accordance with the rules applicable at the time of the occurrence of the insurance risk. The pension system, however, is a long-term system that has to adapt to socio-economic circumstances. The legislator must not only be able to but must adapt the legislation to these circumstances. In your question, you especially point out men who have retired in the past two years with a 57.25% dose rate. In this regard, I would like to point out that they have been – and will also be – in the future if they have been – extremely coordinated in recent years, although they did not bear the burden of non-coordination of pensions in 2012-2016, so-called austerity measures, and yet they are extremely coordinated. In view of the fact that there are different groups of insured persons who could be affected by the increase in dosing rates and the harmonisation of pensions, an analysis of pensioners and their pensions will be prepared at the Ministry, comparing the impact of legislation in force over a period of time to the amount of pensions assessed. In this analysis, it will be crucial to obtain accurate data on the possible less favourable situation of individual groups of pensioners at the expense of the legal conditions in force at a given time. If it is found that the individual categories of beneficiaries of old-age pensions have been disproportionately reduced, action can be taken on this basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the right to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u252	Thank you very much again. I find that, like many others, our pension system is completely flawed. Our citizens worked hard throughout their lives and worked hard, and in the end, they have a shamefully low pension, which is very wrong. At the same time, the social assistance of someone who has never worked has no one working day, greater than the pension of someone who has worked for 30 years in the production of the tape. However, the reconciliation of pensions only increases these differences. Those who already have higher pensions receive much higher amounts than those who have lower pensions, which is against the wrong. With a record budget of more than €10 million, pensioners are increased by 3 euros. In the last year, however, social assistance has increased by poor 30 euros, which is very wrong. And what's most wrong is the difference between pensioners. Today's pensioner will receive a smaller pension than a future pensioner will receive in six years. If I make this very clear, someone who has received thousands of euros of wages will receive 570 euros of pension before this law comes into effect. Someone who will retire after a six-year transitional period will receive EUR 635. This is unfair to all current pensioners who, under the same conditions, will receive a good €60 less – unacceptable and wrong! The question we should all ask ourselves is: What will happen to today’s youth who do not have a single working day at their thirties? What pensions will these young citizens have?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u254	Thank you so much for the update. At this point, I would first like to point out that many speeches have been made on the grounds that, in accordance with the legislation of certain groups of pensioners due to different conditions of retirement, some have been deprived and again some have been privileged. This is precisely because there is a lot of talk about this, for example, if I specifically say that some groups are considered to have retired at a rate of 83%, but at the same time forget to say that certain correction factors were applied at the time, which were decreasing these percentages. [[…]] In short, there's a lot of speculation about these groups. In order to avoid this, we have ordered an in-depth analysis at the Ministry of Education on all individual groups, converted and reviewed into conditions that have been retired to see whether in fact any groups have been deprived. In the event that it is found, if confirmed, it will also be possible to draw up measures on this basis. In particular, what you point out is that these groups that have retired in the last three years, when the actual percentage has fallen to 57.25%, have received extraordinary coordination despite not receiving the so-called austerity measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u256	Thank you so much for saying that again. As it turns out, we have elections ahead of us, early elections, and I believe that there will be a lot of words about pensioners. However, I would like this subject to be discussed at one of the next meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Mag. Marko Koprivc will ask Health Minister Aleš Šabedra a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u258	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, distinguished Minister! More and more people are having trouble choosing a personal physician. With such a small number of available personal physicians, the situation is further deteriorating for patients when they retire or leave family doctors to other jobs. The representative of the patient's rights in Ljubljana, Mrs Duza Hlade Zora, who called for immediate action, has recently raised this issue. It warns that people who lose a personal doctor do not get their travels, do not get sick leave or prescriptions for medicines. Let me illustrate the problem in the case of Ljubljana, where since 2014, the number of people who have a selected personal doctor in the Ljubljana health care facility has increased by more than 15 000. In addition to the increasing number of people in Ljubljana, about 150 000 people are employed in Ljubljana. All of this means that people who are in Ljubljana can only choose a new one without their chosen personal doctor. While I provide data for Ljubljana, I am sure that the situation is similar elsewhere, especially where the population is increasing, and in places that are the goal of day-to-day labour migration. An additional restriction on the admission of new patients is also a reduction in the burden norm or headcount ratio. Let me stress that health care in Ljubljana is combined under the auspices of the Ljubljana Health Home with a network of health homes. The quality of health care is guaranteed to citizens primarily by providing a wide range of health services in one place, which independent concessionaires cannot offer. According to the Director of the Medical Home Ljubljana Rudi Dolšak, the demand for doctors will increase by 30% over the next few years, mainly due to changes in standards. This is particularly obvious in Ljubljana, which provides health services for the wider region, and also suffers from the quality and accessibility of health services especially for Ljubljana and Ljubljana. For them, among other things, secondary health care is not properly regulated and waiting types are the longest. I would like to ask that this be taken into account in further action. In the light of the problems described, I would like to ask you first: Are you familiar with this issue? Then I wonder: What measures is the Ministry preparing to regulate the situation and ensure adequate access to health care? How will the Ministry address the health care situation in Ljubljana and elsewhere, where access to health services for the wider region is affected by the delivery of health services?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u260	Thank you for your word, chairman. Thank you for asking. Your Honor! Initially, I would like to explain that in the Republic of Slovenia, we have a well-functioning system of primary level of health care compared to other countries of the European Union. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 5, the public health service network at the primary level shall determine and provide for the municipality. The primary level of health activity in Slovenia has maintained a central role in the health system. Other countries of the European Union where a general or family medicine doctor, a specialist in paediatric medicine and a specialist in gynaecology are active at the primary level. Most also do not know the Institute of Personally Selected Doctors, which represents the so-called goalkeeper or Gatekeeper in the healthcare system. The primary level is the basis of a successful healthcare system and offers the most comprehensive response to requirements for equal accessibility, price efficiency, integrity of treatment and user involvement. At the Ministry of Family Medicine, which you yourself mentioned in your address, we are familiar, not only in Ljubljana, but also elsewhere in Slovenia, and we have been dealing with the issue since the beginning of this mandate. At the Ministry, we are preparing a series of measures to ensure primary health care, which cannot be resolved for a short period of time, but we have already taken quite a few measures at the primary level. Thus, in Annex 2 to the General Agreement for the contract year 2019, on the basis of the provisions of Annex 1 to the General Agreement for the contract year 2019, we have defined a new accounting model for family medicine and pediatricians at the primary level. This was based on the 2016 Agreement on the temporary cessation of strike activity, i.e. 22. 11. 2016, which predicted a reduction of the headquarters after years, by 5 percentage points per year to the final thousand 500 headquarters. Thus, we have a basis in this signed agreement between the previous government and the FIDES. The accounting model provides for a new award mechanism for teams exceeding the threshold for the possibility of rejecting new insured persons in 2019, i.e. a thousand 895 headquarters, and at the same time the use of an allowance for an increased amount of work for those exceeding the previously mentioned republican average. The new accounting model entered into force 1. 8. 2019 and also in force in 2020. The financial effects of the new accounting model amount to €11.7 million per year. The Ministry also submitted a request to both medical universities to increase enrolment in the medical and mental medicine curriculum. Together with the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, with universities and universities, I hope that we have found this solution to increase the number of places for students at the Faculty of Medicine for the school year 2020/2021, namely, the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor increased the enrolment for 20 medical students and the Faculty of Medicine in Ljubljana by 10. So in the next school year, we have 30 more places in both medical schools together. With the Order on the Upper Limits for Employment in the Republic of Slovenia for 2020, there are also open employment opportunities for foreign doctors. We have also taken measures to encourage the employment of new doctors of general medicine and pediatricians at primary level, allowing more time for a new doctor to obtain a minimum number of patients, four years from the beginning of work, before it was two years from the beginning of work. As early as 2018, we allowed a family medicine specialist to identify insured persons and work as a personal physician under the supervision of a mentor. We have also focused more financial resources on the primary level of health care. In 2019, by adopting the General Agreement for the 2019 contract year, we defined an extension for family doctors for 32 additional teams, of which for Ljubljana and the wider region 11 teams, and pediatricians at the primary level for 21 teams at the national level. Of this for Ljubljana and the wider region of 9 teams. For 2020, we identified extensions for family doctors for 32 teams and pediatricians at primary level for 17 teams. We have also earmarked additional funds for both pediatricians and family doctors in 2019 and 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Can we move on? Bojan Podkoršek will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u262	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. A respected minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! My question concerns the Minister for the Environment and the premises of Mr Simon Zajc. There are not many nations around the world that can be proud of good, this is healthy drinking water, especially drinking water that we pour out of taps. In particular, my question today concerns the waters running through our rivers. Of course, in the past we have all made some mistakes so that the waters are not even in a much better condition. I live in a congregation in which we built a cleaning plant in the past, and built a secondary sewer in crafts zones, but unfortunately for many years, individuals have been in violation of these principles, and they are still pouring dirty water into our river Dravin. This is probably the individual who does this, I suppose, when the amount of rain is higher, when the river is dirty, and when the rain is gone, it happens when the river is smaller and the river is clean. The municipality, a municipal company, and many residents on this river constantly warn the police, inspection services, to find out what is going on in this area and, above all, to prevent it. This, however, belongs to the Celje District Unit. I know that there are many inspection services in Slovenia, which work very positively, I must commend them. In that case, I am interested in: What is happening in this area that people, citizens living on this river, despite the fact that the municipality, the country and the European funds have allowed us to build a cleaning plant, built a secondary sewer, and still live along a filthy river? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u264	Thank you for your word, too, for the question. Before we go to Dravinjo. The monitoring of the environmental burden on waste water shall be carried out in the framework of regular monitoring on the basis of the environmental inspection work programme, then on the basis of the information provided by the Arsa on cross-border burdens with waste water and other infringements and on the basis of pollution reporting. So that's how the system runs. But this case of yours has been a problem for a long time, and pollution comes not only in the rain, but in the weekends when inspectors don't work. Since we were warned about this, we approved work over the weekend and 18. 1. The inspector found out where the pollution was coming from, and the process is running, and I cannot say any more about this procedure. But for Dravinja, for this case that you're talking about, it turns out who's polluting, when, how, why. When the process is over, we can talk more about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u265	Thank you very much. You have a follow-up to the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u266	Thank you, Your Honor. On the one hand, I am sad when I have to ask this in the National Assembly, but on the other hand, I am happy with the first part of your answer. If so, then it is an incentive that the people or all of us living on this river Dravinja will soon be able to live by a river that is clean. It must have been one of the inspectors or inspectors who saved a number of years. I'm glad that this happened on this date that you mentioned, and I don't want to tell you now about this case before it's finished. However, I would like, as a member of the National Assembly, to know how the inspection of the service works in such cases. But above all, I'm interested in this case, because people, you know, live right next to this river. They're farmers, too. The last time this filthy liquid was released, they even took me to the river and showed me that they had cleaned the agricultural land, demolished some trees, and must now be planted back. That, I'll say, somehow I understand, but of course they don't understand us as a country, so someone can flush into the river this dirty water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u268	I'm joining this concern of yours to make sure our rivers are clean. We, within our ministry, are preparing and caring for legislation, and then it is always what I have said today: how this legislation is then implemented, what control we have, that is, how human resources and how flexible we are with regard to work. In this case, some greater flexibility should be imposed on the inspection to work when it comes to it — if it is known that pollution occurs when the weekend, when the inspectors are away from work — to adjust to it and then catch up with the offender. And once again, with regard to the procedure itself, because it is still running, I really can't say any more. But in accordance with the legislation, he will be punished and I expect that then you will no longer be affected by this pollution. Everywhere else where these cases will occur, however, this way of organising the work of the Inspectorate will have to be copied – and I also expect that from the inspection – if it finds that infringements occur outside the working time, to respond to them, and to free themselves somehow in their working hours, but that they follow up on this and with the aim of finding the offender, and above all that the consequence of this discovery is that such pollution as has occurred in this case will no longer occur in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister of Culture mag. Zoran Poznań. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u270	Thank you for your word, chairman. Minister, we have recently seen an alarming trend in political recruitment in national cultural institutions. As President of the Committee on Culture, I receive many warnings and calls from employees and professionals in national institutions, as political recruitment in the general public raises concerns and builds confidence in the functioning of public institutions, as well as doubts about public procurement. Museums and galleries and other public institutions in culture carry out public service, act in the public interest, in the public interest, and are also financed by public money and therefore must not be fevd of the current coalition or worse, one party which is your party to the Social Democrats in this case. We therefore expect more responsibility in the future, because each time a minister for culture or a political party belonging to it cannot use the ministry as his own private pool for the disposal of personnel. What am I talking about? For example, you have appointed Mrs Barbara Juršič as Director of the Technical Museum in Bistra, and according to her public biography, she has no qualifications. Nor does it formally meet certain tendering conditions, such as the relevant university education of one of the professions represented in the activities of the museum, but at the same time the Minister did not take into account the opinion of the Board of the Institute. At least in two other cases, there are clear patterns of political recruitment. For example, Slovenian Philharmonic Director Marjetica Mahne described to Dnevnik the political pressures and staffing that the Party of Social Democrats is carrying out in the interest of changing the Director and putting former Minister of Culture Dejan Prašič in her place. In a resounding interview, she described the political games of employees at the Ministry of Culture who lobby for its abolition. There is also a procedure for the appointment of the director of the Modern Gallery and one of the candidates is Jadranka Plut, who is regularly employed in the cabinet of the Minister of Culture. However, the Minister is the one who autonomously decides on the appointment and is not bound by the opinion of the Commission, nor by the Council of the Institute, nor by the professional council of the institution. In addition, there is a risk of access to information during the appointment process, since Pluto has a privileged position as a cabinet employee. However, according to our information, she has joined the Social Democrats Party for the purpose of this recruitment. That's why I want to know: How do you respond to the evidence of political recruitment, clienteleism, conflicts of interest and abuse of the official position that should be at the back of these appointments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u272	Madam Member, thank you for the question. Of course, I reject these insinuations of not knowing what kind of political personnel. We can just go in the order these things go. Of course, I have to point out here that I'm about this place right now. Ten months. In those ten months, I haven't really replaced anyone, I haven't abandoned anyone – yet! That's why much of this question of yours is really, as far as I'm concerned, an empty shot. As for regular exchanges of leaders, the directors of various public institutions in the field of culture, however, all procedures are carried out in accordance with the applicable legislation, so that the Minister now suspends someone to set up and use someone here and wrap names with such important institutions as the Modern Gallery or the Slovenian Philharmonic, at least in my opinion, does not look like one. As for the new director, the selected director of the Technical Museum in Bistra, I must point out that the Technical Museum in Bistra has so far been extremely fed up with thinking, thinking, managing the institution in the sense of anti-implementation of all concepts of cultural tourism, which also brings to mind the fact that the Technical Museum in Bistra is not only a museum in fact our technical fundamental heritage, but must prepare and collect collections in the field of information technology, in the field of printing, in the field of written technology and so on. So there is also this evidence of incompetence, of non-compliance with some of the required conditions, of course, does not hold water. But I am not the minister who would afford himself to have employees in the ministry or in the cabinet determine who will be the leader, who will be the director of a particular public institution such as the Slovenian Philharmonic. Of course, we cannot afford that now all things that some in their defense would now be republished in some of them by favored media, through some of them favored by journalists — not abstaining, drinking water. Of course, I have my hands tied here because these things are now until the process is completed – and the procedures are not yet completed in any of the cases that you are mentioning – I cannot really comment. But I assure you, this is no party recruitment whatsoever. You did not, for example, mention Slovenian operas and ballet, where there is also a new leadership, which also came from the Ministry. But after more than half a year's science in general, the collective's satisfaction! Thus, to me and the profession and all other circumstances, it was suggested that I retain a man, an expert in this field, who has drawn in one way all this huge complex public institution out of the abyss in which the tree is, and in general, we have also done so. Above all, once again: it is in our interest to act; these are national institutions of such importance that such political games as some of them go out there in public are simply not allowed and cannot be afforded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Do you have the floor to complete the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u274	Mr. Secretary, you said that the pleasure of the collective was essential to you, but you are ignoring all the letters sent to you by your employees. An interest is a function. But doesn't the Modern Gallery seem satisfactory? Does the Slovenian Philharmonic, which came out of the red numbers, not seem satisfactory to you? So tell me: How can a translator who has no experience of managing and knows no technical heritage become a national director for the protection of this cultural heritage? Tell me: How do you say that the profession is the criteria you follow if these are really strange decisions? You're telling me to put names on it! These people are public servants, they are committed to the public, because they manage public money, with public institutions that are ours, not yours and not the parties to the Social Democrats. And you know, they're not their favorite media. I relied on the staff's letters because I am the president of the Committee on Culture, and some of the media. These are not favored journalists, but are people who want to warn the public about how to deal with public money, because there is a conflict of interest here if you hire employees at the Ministry and hire them as directors of some public institutions, but who act well, but your employees write that they are satisfied with leadership. People who have absolutely no experience will be placed in very responsible places, but you will tell me that this does not drink water. You know, we're going to take a hard look at all these personnel, no matter what the government has given you, and we're not going to allow political clienteleism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u276	Politically, what you are now saying again. And if you think that these public institutions are completely arranged, that everything is fine, that the program is great, that the employees are satisfied, then you obviously only read part of everything they write in public – say, about the Slovenian Philharmonic. Far from being all right! I hope you don't mean that. Again, I repeat: I will not talk about names, I will not talk about things, about procedures that are not really finished, some are only in the middle. I can't comment on the letters now – I don't know how many of them there are, very few of them come to me. But this is according to the analogy of what the media says that employees at the Ministry are preventing me from accessing this information – or what? But it's not that simple. Be assured that the current Minister of Culture still has a hell of adhering to all the procedures and regulations that are necessary for any new accommodation, a new choice based on expert committees and so on. Once again, the procedures have not been completed, the Minister of Culture has not yet suspended anyone, no one has been politically employed anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u277	Thank you very much. You have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u278	Thank you for your word, chairman. Of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I request a discussion at the next meeting on this subject. Indeed, the procedures are not completed, but we can clearly see the direction in which the personnel are going and how this is happening. Culture already suffers from malnutrition, and now leadership is to be chosen by client rather than by professional criteria. We really can't let that happen. Political recruitment in culture also means untransparent and reckless spending of public money. It also weakens some confidence in the legal system, damages the reputation of cultural institutions and so on. Moreover, political recruitment contains corrupt elements and raises suspicion of abuse of the official position. I therefore reiterate that public institutions must not, and cannot, be, the target of each coalition and those parties with the current portfolio under them. This is a matter of public interest and it is therefore unacceptable for the criteria of expertise to be replaced by the criteria of SD membership. I expect you to support me and we will discuss these unacceptable practices at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, as part of the vote. Vojko Starović will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u280	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister Kseniya Klampfer! At the end of December, pensioners received about one and a half percent of pensions at the expense of extraordinary coordination. That's 8 euros, extra. This has also raised the guaranteed pension that someone receives for full-time work — I stress full-time — which is EUR 538. Notwithstanding the fact that this pension will continue to rise by regular coordination with the following month, with February, under the system law, this remains below the minimum cost of living. The Institute for Economic Research estimated minimum cost of living in 2016 at EUR 613. So the minimum pension today is 538 and the minimum cost of living is 613 euros. The current pension reform, which we have adopted in November, still, despite the rise in the rate of the percentage – which is now coming and other things that we have achieved – still do not provide these minimum living resources for pensioners, who have reached 40 years of full-time employment and old age. I ask you, Minister: Are you planning further measures (thinkings, plans, visions, or visions) to reach this threshold — those with the lowest pensions and full retirement? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go. Please turn off [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u282	Thank you so much for saying that, and thank you for asking. Initially, I would like to explain that, as the competent minister, I would like to stress or agree with you that pensions in Slovenia are too low. I am also aware of the social distress experienced by some pensioners. However, it should also be borne in mind that the pension and disability insurance scheme is an insurance system where rights are recognised on the basis of an updated pension period supplemented by an individual, and in particular from the level of salary or base from which an individual has paid contributions. I would like to point out that in recent years, the Government has provided more resources for pensioners within the limits allowed. The rescue measures, which were of a temporary nature, were repealed in 2016. Since then, pensions have been coordinated even more favourably than they would have been coordinated in accordance with system law. In addition to regular harmonisation in recent years, pensions have also been highly coordinated, namely 0.6 in 2016, for 1.1 in 2018 and 1.5 in 2019. The same as pensions is also coordinated with the minimum amount of the pension guaranteed and will also rise to around €555 in February 2020 on the basis of regular reconciliation of pensions. Let me say that the pension granted from 2017 onwards, when this institution was also introduced, increased by 11.3%. I would like to point out that one of the primary objectives of the recent changes in pension legislation brought by the novel STIZ-2G was to ensure a more appropriate income for safe age by raising the percentages. This calls for attention also to beneficiaries of the lowest age, disability, family pension and disability benefits. With regard to your specific question, I should say that, in order to raise the minimum guaranteed pensions to the minimum cost of living, i.e. to 613,41 euros, we should provide over an additional EUR 60 million at the annual level in the pension allowance. In doing so, I should point out that there would also be disproportionate differences between insured persons who have reached the age of 40 and those who have reached the age of full retirement. Someone who had 39 years of unreachable retirement would have a EUR 614 pension in the amount of 541, someone who had 40 years of retirement. Therefore, I would like to point out that all changes in the pension system need to be done in a sound manner, in line with the objective of not making inappropriate differences between beneficiaries. The long-term financial sustainability of the pension system should also be taken into account when adopting measures in the area of the pension system. In the near future, there will be a need for a broader social consensus on measures that will, on the one hand, ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system, while at the same time ensuring an adequate level of income in age. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u283	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Ambassador Franz Breznik will ask the Minister of Public Administration Rudy Medved. Member, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u284	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. My question extends to the circle that I have made in this mandate; that is, the circle that links high technological changes in the world, the circle that we call the Fourth Industrial Revolution and for which there is a large part a word link of digitalisation. I myself have announced that this new technological revolution gives Slovenia a new great opportunity to put itself within the framework of the most developed countries, so that it can become even a European Singapore if we do some of the domestic tasks that are urgently needed. So, even more than the infrastructure we're talking about, such as the road, the railway, we need information infrastructure and super-fast networks, which we call common 5G. This is essential infrastructure for us to place Slovenia among the digital countries, to build an environment with them, which will be the basis for Slovenia to develop smart villages, smart cities, so that it can develop the 4.0 industry, so that it can develop self-propelled vehicles, so that it can develop smart logistics or we can also call logistics just and time to others or even third generations. That is why 5G is urgently needed. In these 5G stories we have a story of 20 village specialists who are afraid that this technology is causing some health problems. In this area I can only say something: 5G technology can also work on 700 megahertz, i.e. at approximately the same frequencies as 4G or 3G today – as you know, we have 4G technology at three different frequencies, 800 megahertz, 900 megahertz and a thousand 800 megahertz. It can also work on 3.5 gigahertz, a relatively frequency spectrum in which many studies have been performed. If that is not the case, Slovenia will fall completely behind. The 5G network was first introduced by Swiss Swisscom, presented by Telekom, even by Britain. The installations run in Spain, Italy and Germany, i.e. in large countries. As a small country, however, Slovenia should be the first to enter this market. Let me just say that only your induction plate at home is sown about 50 times stronger than any 5G transmitter at a distance of one meter. But we can go back to history, and I don't have time to talk about it, but I'm going to tell you what kind of people there were when Nikola Tesla was talking about the alternating flow, and what were the concerns about the introduction of the alternating flow about 130 years ago. So much for me. So, Minister: What will you do to ensure that Slovenia gets a 5G network among the first and that we can start a number of pilot projects in this area? O d depends on you, there is also a Minister for Economy, and a large part of Slovenia, the Slovenian economy [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u286	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Your Honor! The Ministry of Public Administration does not introduce technologies in practice, including 5G technologies, of course, does not only introduce the Ministry of Public Administration. The basis for auctioning radio spectrum is, as you know, the Radio Frequency Management Strategy. The strategy must be drawn up by the Agency for Communications Networks and Services. It took years for this to end, I will say, to try to bring the strategy into line with the Ministry of Public Administration, but we have held it responsible that such a strategy as it was prepared does not meet the criteria on which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would give its consent to this strategy. We were informed when this strategy was being prepared to hold a public debate in a wide variety of areas, so that the agency to prepare this strategy would also lead it. That is why it was so much more surprising that when we came across a proposal for a strategy to go to the Government or that the Government would agree to do so, we had a tremendous economic resistance, that we had a whole set of critics from the Chamber of Commerce and Operators – regardless of the fact that they were the ones that the very broad public debate was taking place with them and that the Agency for Communications Networks was fully coordinated with them. I guess that's not what happened. However, on page 7, where it is written down, “the current regulation on electromagnetic radiation in Slovenia does not allow the establishment of 5G technology” – although this regulation is from 1996 – we were surprised, to say the least, that the agency was obliged to align these issues with the Ministry of Environment and Space, which is somehow the custodian of this regulation. So, the question was, what does that mean? Is it necessary to amend or amend the standards that Slovenia has for about 10 times more stringent than international recommendations, or is it a proposal to relax these standards or what should happen to these standards? This was two questions that led us to believe that the Government could not take responsibility for such a strategy and give its consent. That is why we are now in the stage of preparing additional strategic orientations for the Agency. These additional strategic orientations will be prepared within approximately 14 days, and on this basis we expect the Agency to correct only the text of the strategy – even through a public debate again, of course also with the economy that has the greatest comments – and we expect that then, after this 30-day debate, this strategy, however, is substantively appropriate for the Government to agree with it. I must say that we are not late in this regard, as well as the European Directive, and that this action plan adopted last year by the Government will be partially modified so that the conditions for auctioning the radio spectrum will be created this year, as planned. Maybe a month or two later, as originally envisaged, but this year it will happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the question? Mr. Breznik, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u288	Mr. Secretary, here we go. The regulation is, of course, a government document. We can't accept it here in the National Assembly, it's a submarital act. Usually it is accepted by the Government, you can accept it – not least at the government meeting with the minister of the environment, you find some inconsistencies and you try to adjust it. I believe that operators or potential operators have been concerned because they are unlikely to be able to place these base stations in places where they would be commercially interesting under this Regulation. Well, it's been half a year, and now we're gonna start talking. I can tell you that by 2017, at the time Cerar's government had concluded a large digital coalition, I can tell you that, even when I supported it myself, nothing has happened in the field of digitisation since then. The Ministry, which you support, which has a view of the full public and state administration, has, in the last four years, employed 120 000 people in the public sector. We all say: digitisation, the whole of Europe digitises, reduces public sector employees, works more effectively in the public sector. Look, we're doing the opposite with us, like we're in a stone age. Look what's happening to us. We will, even if you do, but if we introduce a 5G network between the last countries, especially among the smaller ones, we will not be able to participate in any serious European project in the meantime. We have extraordinary options, as I told you, for self-propelled vehicles. We think of emedicine, where operations are done in just-in-time, so in some real time, that someone participates, works, say, some kind of surgery and helps a fellow from America, so that it runs for dozens of seconds. So all of these projects that would go in the direction of digitisation, where Slovenian experts, Slovenian research issues could get a lot of money, all of this will be delayed and all of this will go through. That's why he's such an important moment for me to be introduced as soon as possible. Look, Mrs. Fly. Then I'll tell you this in this future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Of course, I cannot agree that nothing has happened in the field of digitisation in Slovenia in the last period. It's not just the introduction of 5G digitisation technology. And I'm not going to list all the cases that have been digitized in the last year. And if I mention now maybe just an e-medical sheet, which was the last thing, and a whole bunch of others are, we talk about it all the time. As I told you, it is true that some European countries are ahead of us in introducing 5G technology. But they also have a lot of problems with that – when we talk about something, as you say, village specials. Throughout Europe, people are having major problems; in England, people are clinging to base stations, among other things. However, it was not an obstacle that this might have prevented the adoption of this strategy. If some people have concerns about health and other matters, experts can explain this very well. True, there may also be a lot of needless intimidation about what this new technology will bring. It is therefore important that experts clarify as closely as possible what is involved in these radiation values. That way we won't miss anything essential, I assure you. As I said, it is a time frame for adopting this strategy, which is necessary, but which is the basis for auctioning the radio spectrum so that this will be confirmed in a relatively short period of time. With regard to the management of the Agency for Communications Networks and Services itself, and also here, I would rather refrain from commenting because whenever I have said anything at the expense of the Agency's management, we were immediately warned from Brussels that we are interfering with independence, expertise and who knows what else this independent regulator is. That's how he has his hands tied here, believe me, including the Ministry of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u291	Thank you very much. We can proceed. Jernej Vortovec will then raise your hand. [[…]] Mr. Breznik, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u292	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. All I'm gonna say is that I once had contact with Mrs. Tanya Mucha in one session. Look, she couldn't even translate the AKOS agency what that means. She was talking about some electronic communications. She didn't even know how to explain it. She didn't even know it. Even then, after the Government — or the President of the Government — was normal, through its organs, I could replace Mrs. Muche immediately through the Council of the Agency because she is completely incompetent. Even though it was that affair with that award, and the affair with Koprivnikar, with the allocation of 5G pilot frequencies. Even then, Mrs Fly should no longer have a normal country in this function. In these stories of those who doubt — I have not seen any engineers in these stories. No serious high-frequency engineers, i.e. specialised engineers associated with high frequencies. All I see is some quasi-civil society, where some people who don't have connections to electronics know the devices that are radiating today. Look, the first industrial revolution, that I don't explain what our ancestors are, say those of Ptuj who spoke in 1840, the dangers of the railroad. Where did Ptuj stay after the southern railway passed Ptuj, so she went through Maribor? The bird's completely stopped. There was another industrial revolution, I mentioned. If you could see what was going on in New York, what was going on between Edison and Tesla, what was the danger of alternating flow and everything else that would make the alternating flow. Look, where would you be today if there was no alternating flow of Nikola Tesla? Not to explain all his inventions, as far as transmission across high-frequency electricity spectrum was concerned, where there were tens of thousands of radiations, but some things were already working today or are not fully developed. I don't want to explain any more of these sequels. Of course she's always a skeptic. But if we look on the other hand that this nation will be able to live more, that this nation may have in the next 10 years a gross social product, the next target, 100 billion gross social product, so that high-tech companies can come and more and more of these companies will have basic infrastructure here, so that we can put more money into social, health and everything else. [[…]] Then, if we weigh this by someone doubting certain radiations – they are always radiations, but, excuse me, the pretzel lived for an average of 28 years, about 40 years of age have been the most awaited. At the time of Prešern was about 50 years old, less than 50 years old, the average age, they had only biofood, they had only biomass, they had no refrigerators, and it was everything, and people lived 40 to 50 years. There wasn't any radiation, was there? Today, however, we have no idea what the number of centenarians is, but everything seems to shorten our life expectancy. Well, I completely disagree with that. So we always have to look at the benefit and the benefit is at this point, see, on your side. I want us to make one quality debate about this at this time of the government crisis. And to give a good signal to politicians, especially to those who are executives, to obtain concessions [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Jernej Vrtovec will ask the finance minister Dr. Andre Bertonclj. The minister's gone. A messenger, too. Let's move on. Ambassador Branko Simonović will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u294	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everyone. Madam Minister, by monitoring the statistical reports of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia, we can find that the ratio between the average age pension and the net salary is decreasing. The percentage of average age pensions per percentage of the average wage in the years mentioned above was between 1990 and 89.2%, in 2000 and 75.3%, in 2010 and 74.7% and in 2019 and 59%. The ratio was reduced due to the dose percentage, covering the different number of years to be taken into account in the calculation of pensions and non-coordination of pensions. By adopting the amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which entered into force with 1. On 1 January 2020, the percentage for men over the next five years gradually rises to 63.5% and for women does not decrease. Of course, this is true of all who have or will retire after 1. 1. 2020. I'm sure you agree with me that pensioners who retired until 31st 12. 2019, due to a lower percentage of lower pensions than those currently retired. I want to know: How much lower are pensions due to the dose rate? How many pensioners have been deprived of it? What are the measures to be taken to eliminate the anomalies caused by the lower dose percentage to all pensioners who have retired up to 31? 12. 2019? What is the timetable for these measures? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u296	Thank you so much for saying that, and thank you for asking. Initially, I would like to point out that, on the basis of the latest statistics of the Institute of Pensions and Disability Insurance, the ratio between the average age pension and the average wage is even increasing from 65.4 in 2017 to 65.7 in 2018. Similar growth is expected for 2019. It follows from the above data that pensions have increased faster than wages since 2017, mainly due to extraordinary harmonisation. I also cannot fully agree with your conclusion on the amount of old pensioners who retired before 31. 12. 2019, and those who will retire after that date. At this point, I would like to draw attention to the amount of old-age pensions for women who had an even higher rate of 40 years of retirement during the transitional period. By 2016, it was 64.25% and 63.5% since 2017. Thus, women cannot be told that they have been damaged in the past according to the current dose percentages. In the case of dosing percentages in men, which increase by about one percentage point per year since 2025 in line with the latest adopted novelty, I would like to clarify that the very height of the old pension in addition to the dose percentage is more affected by the way in which the pension base is calculated. I must point out that it is the Pension and Disability Insurance Act which entered into force 1. 1. 2013, set a five-year transitional period after which the number of years to calculate the pension base increased. Thus, the old pension was awarded in 2013 on the basis of the 19-year average, 2017, the last year of the transitional period and on the basis of the 23-year average, the 24-year average is now set. For all pensioners who have retired during these years, it cannot be argued that because of a lower percentage, they also have lower pensions than pensioners who will retire after 2020, as their pension was recognised under different conditions. Given that there are different groups of insurers who could be negatively affected by the increase in the percentages and the harmonisation of pensions, we are preparing an analysis at the Ministry of Pensioners and the level of their pensions, and we will have to compare the impact of legislation in force over a certain period of time to the amount of pensions applied. In this analysis, it will be crucial to obtain accurate data on the possible less favourable situation of individual groups of pensioners at the expense of the legal conditions in force at a given time. If it is found that the individual categories of beneficiaries of old-age pensions have been disproportionately reduced, appropriate measures may be proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, I'm talking about average old-age pensions. I collected data from the annual report of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance for 2018 and I believe this official data. I'd like you to check this data, and you'll find out how the ratio of average old-age pensions, I'm talking about averages, relative to the average net salary decreases as I read it. Really, please look at this information and answer me in writing, because obviously there's some noise in this data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u300	Thank you so much for the update. I also read you official information from the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. If we just look at the growth of the average pension, the minimum guaranteed pension from 2017 to 2019, this only increased by about 11.3%, which is faster than wages. However, as you yourself have suggested, we will also give you this information in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Ambassador Marijan Pojbič will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u302	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I know you're leaving us, which is of course nothing wrong, but next time you'll answer me in writing, so there's no problem. Madam Vice-President, of course, I will ask the question. Good luck. As of January 2020, some nursing homes have raised supply prices mainly as a result of charging and raising minimum wages. The Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia has already announced in December that the supply prices will rise by 2 to 3%, the Ministry of Defence and estimates that the increase will be up to 1.5%. Nevertheless, one fact remains — the prices at home for the elderly, who are already unavailable to many, are either rising or rising. It may not seem much to anyone to raise a monthly rate of €5 or €10, but for our elderly and their families, it is a huge additional burden. The average pension in Slovenia is 740 euros and is usually not enough to cover the monthly payment at home for the elderly. It is even more worrying that almost half of pensioners receive less than €600 a month and do not even exceed the poverty threshold with a pension. How can such an elderly person survive a dignified age? Should he burden his children financially, who often barely support their families, or should he simply whimper? It's not life, it's not human and it's not right. For more than 10 years, we have been wondering when the state will regulate the long-term care system, especially given that the government in the budget has not foreseen funds for this. In the last audit report on the accessibility of social protection services, the Court of Auditors found that the Government in the homes for the elderly did not ensure equal treatment and it was also inappropriate to plan a new long-term care system. In summary, there is no long-term care system. The institutional protection of the elderly is accessible only to part of the population. Financial pressure on the guards and their families is increasing and Slovenian society is ageing rapidly. Dear Minister: When are we gonna get the Long-Term Care Act on the table? How will he improve the situation described? How will the Ministry take care to reduce the financial burden on the citizens and their families for the protection of the elderly? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Since the minister is a percentage, do you want an oral response? I'm sorry. Okay. Thank you very much. Next is Boris Doblekar, who will question Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u304	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Minister of Economy, Mr. Rest! Today, in the oral question of Parliament, I will highlight one topic that is very pressing especially for small entrepreneurs, craftsmen, micro-enterprises and so on. The issue concerns the issue of absurdly high and disproportionate fines, which are subject to entrepreneurs, which I am referring to you as Minister for Economic Development and Technology. Intervention with these fines and penalties is, in essence, permissible where the penalties are proportionate. There are a lot of cases, and I've actually gotten a lot of them when penalties are not proportionate to the offence. Practice shows that very many fines are determined absurdly high and disproportionately committed. Businesses are particularly exposed to such fines from many areas. For a large number of entrepreneurs, the fine of bankruptcy and the end of the business path means the fine of bankruptcy. I would like to ask, Minister, whether you intend to do something in interdepartmental coordination with other ministries to ease the absurdly high and the disproportionate fines committed by entrepreneurs. In fact, I hope that such fines will no longer be adopted in advance by law, but of course they are still written back and are also consistently respected and respected. I have quite a few cases for which I do not have time to explain in this minute, which I still have, but nevertheless: a craftsman, for example, who entered his company in the transfer of ownership to a business register, and later, due to failure, may not have entered the company into the register of actual owners, even though it was all regulated at the entry point I know, all in one place, so to assure that everything will be arranged, that everything will count and so on. The entrepreneur then continues to work, works in good faith that everything is arranged. Workers are employed, they pay contributions, they pay taxes on the state and local budgets, and eventually they get fined because they didn't make the entry in time, i.e. 400 euros for the natural person, and 6,000 euros for the company. I'm asking you: How long will that be? Will you do anything to reduce those fines, which are actually disproportionate? Especially for such minor offenses or indecisive offenses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u306	Honorable assembly, presidents! Dear Mr Boris Doblekar, thank you for the question. The system of offences and the height of fines is based on the Offences Act as a statutory law. In the area laws, fines are regulated taking into account the statutory law and each time in consultation with the Ministry of Justice. The fine may generally be prescribed in a fixed amount or range, except as a percentage, and both fixed heights and range limits shall be determined depending on the subject of the offence. The Act on Offences provides that, in the event that a fine is prescribed within the range, a minimum prescribed fine shall be imposed on the offender for the offence committed, unless otherwise provided for in the law. Instead of a fine, a warning or warning may be given if the condition is met. The reasons for creating different frameworks for the regulation of fines are based on the principle of proportionality, according to which perpetrators of similar infringements should be equally affected by the fine. If I can explain the case of the Company Act. Seven offences have been determined, the amount of the fine is different for the offence, depending on the size of the entrepreneur. The fines are set for micro-entrepreneurs with turnover of up to EUR 700 000 between 200 and 800 euros, for small entrepreneurs with turnover of up to EUR 8 million between EUR 600 and EUR 2000, for medium-sized entrepreneurs with turnover of up to EUR 40 million between EUR 300 and EUR 3 000 500 and the largest entrepreneurs with annual turnover of more than EUR 40 million between EUR 2 000 and EUR 5 000. The purpose and objective pursued in the course of the reviews is market regulation and not fines. Only certain laws under the Ministry’s control provide that a higher fine may also be imposed for the offence committed than the minimum laid down, such as the Consumer Protection Act, the Technical Affairs Act for Products and Conformity Assessment, the Consumer Credit Act, the Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment. As regards the prescribed fines in a particular material procedure, the regulation, the inspector as an authorised official in a criminal procedure, cannot impose a fine lower than that prescribed. The less prescribed fines may be imposed only if the court so decides in the case of an application for judicial protection. The inspector may give a warning or warning instead of a fine if the legal conditions are met. The conditions shall be met when the debtor removes the infringements found and during the inspection or prior to the issuance of the decision. Statistics show that far more warnings and reminders have been issued than fines. If I provide statistics for 2019, in 32% of the reviews, a criminal action was taken. Of these 32 percent, only 9 percent of offenders received a fine, 18 percent received a warning, and 74 percent received a warning. In addition, I should like to say that the percentage of fines imposed on all offences found in the last four years has fallen. As I have already pointed out, the basic objective is to regulate the market. When you heard from those percentages, it is also clear that proportionate penalties are being imposed, as well as that proportionality is already taken into account when determining the range of the fine itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u308	Dear Minister, thank you very much for your answer. Even me and the entrepreneurs, especially those who do not reach such numbers of business as you have just mentioned in these scales, would certainly be thrilled if they were for such offences that are not presumptive, if there is some minor error, error or forgetfulness, and that this company has never been in any kind of offence, normal business, good work, employment, paying taxes to such an undertaking to give a warning. And I have some of these cases with me that speak the other way around, or very high fines have been imposed for the offence, as I have already mentioned, entering the register of actual owners. At the point I know everything was essentially done; in the hope that the matter would go through, of course, they continued to work, after it was found that the company should not have been entered into the entry of actual owners, because they considered that it was a single company with limited liability, which was also supposed to be, but still they received such a high fine that could essentially bankrupt this company or that it would no longer be able to operate, employ people and pay taxes. Still, I'm curious: Will you advocate giving as many reminders as possible and help those who do not constantly violate them, warn them, advise them to meet these complex bureaucratic documents correctly? That's what I'm asking, please again, if you can answer me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u310	Your Honor! This is a practice that is being followed. Again, I would like to point out that the percentage of fines in the last two or more years have faded, and the percentage of warnings given has, on the other hand, increased over the last four years. One more for comparison. In 2016, 44% of all inspections were completed with the offence, while in 2019 only 32% were completed. When drafting new regulations or amending existing ones, we are working to ensure that the fines laid down in these rules are still proportionate to the gravity of the infringement and at the same time dissuasive. In some cases, however, there is also a situation where an entrepreneur is in real trouble because of the fine, as is likely in the case mentioned above, which I cannot comment on at this point, but, as I have already said, such an entrepreneur still has the opportunity to remedy the infringement in a timely manner and thus fulfil the legal provision that only a warning or warning can be given to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u312	Dear Minister, once again, thank you for your answer, for further clarifications. Of course, I am very pleased that it is actually moving on to the fact that, after the warning of the completion of applications or anything else, only a reminder is given after this has been removed. I hope and I wish that was actually true. But as this case proves to me, as some others did, because entrepreneurs turned to me, I don't see it coming out like you said. Everything else then says how it will have to be recovered, how a prison sentence, work for the public benefit, and so on. You know, such craftsmen, private individuals, economists must work, because you are well aware of this, and they must work well every day and work economically, and they do not have time to go to jail to do public work if they have made a small mistake in bureaucratic procedures. That is why I think it is good that this topic is actually so wide – I will quickly try to list a few more examples that are also from this quota – that we will also have a broader debate in the National Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and perhaps even further in the preparation of new rules, we may already have some basis so that there will be no such high fines or penalties as disproportionate. For example, I already mentioned the entry into the business register, then the tax confirmation of micro-enterprise accounts; the total turnover of not even EUR 50,000, some error, some inconvenient – high fines. We have tax receipts, we make simplifications, and we make entry and exit bills. Penalty for faults of drivers, for example in the tolling process. Inadvertent error of the driver in the tolling process. It could also be an example of just applying — this is not the case with us — until the time limit for remedying the error is incomparably higher than in Austria and Germany. More life surveillance in innkeepers, for example, where there is no objective control, is the Inspector's subjective assessment. For example, one inspector goes out to the field and suddenly goes into ten inn shops and some inspectors go around for a long time. In short, there are many of these fines that could be touched in this general debate. In Slovenia, we have been monitoring millions of debt write-offs, billions of money laundering, dozens of billions went from Slovenia, places of social property, payment non-discipline that these small craftsmen must then finance, these companies, especially state-owned companies, which build projects with public money and so on. There's a lot of stuff and trouble here. For example, in these high offenses, those I have just talked about, which are also crimes, are fines or penalties are literally the same as for those small ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u313	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. I didn't hear your motion. [[advertising from the hall]] Ah, I'm sorry. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 29 January in the framework of the votes. Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister for Environment and Space, Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u314	Your Honor, thank you for saying so! During the last ten years, the Drava River has repeatedly crossed its coasts and flooded the Lower Podravja area and the Ptuj area. These floods result in lasting consequences, damage to housing, business facilities, and, above all, the destruction of processed fertile agricultural areas. Since there are many farmers who depend on it, they are said to lose their income, as well as poorer food supply. In fact, the people in this area have turned to me and are very, very desperate because they do not know what awaits them. I, too, must admit, woke up last November this morning last year, and there was an alarm for a natural disaster. And when that mermaid choked, the man really shivered and shuddered, but I was on my way to the National Assembly for the meeting. You're really going home with a bad feeling because you don't know what's gonna happen or what's waiting for you when you get back. Because I know that Slovenia is a member of, or participates in, these FRISCO-1 and FRISCO-2 projects, which are interstate projects between Croatia and Slovenia, where it explores how best to rehabilitate or protect and build protection in these flood zones. I'm interested in the following. Because I am the kind of person who is more doer, it is said to go to the field and look at things a little bit familiar, I was on the ground and I took a very interesting photograph – I can show the minister again. I have to admit that I was very glad that something is really happening to make the embankment and this stuff, but the bad news is that this embankment is working or being regulated on the Croatian side, not in Slovenia, and this is for the FRISCO-2 project. That's why I'm interested in FRISCO-2 data. What is its timetable, common financial framework and planned objectives, even for the Slovenian part? Within this project, I am also specifically interested in: How much money does it waste on the Drava flood protection system in general? I would also like to draw attention to the fact that FRISCO-1 was more dedicated to bureaucratic matters, and FRISCO-2 is dedicated to more projects that will actually protect people physically from floods. Then I'm also curious: What projects are still under way at the Ministry for the purpose of flood protection on the Drava River, in particular for the area of Ptuj and Ormož? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u316	Thank you. Maybe for start-up, flood risk is very present in Slovenia, in fact, and this will not be improved over time, or the problem posed by climate change is that otherwise the amount of precipitation will remain the same in Slovenia as the models and forecasts of the Slovenian Environment Agency, but the number of days in which these precipitation will fall will be reduced. Which means that when it rains, that amount will be so large that rivers flow and floods will become more and more frequent. That is why these measures we are implementing are so important. And not just flood measures, but also those where we're often told that we're doing flood maps where we shouldn't be, and why we're doing this, people want to build, they want to spread against the rivers. But it is important to realize that flood threats exist, and it is also likely that they will be increasing and that they need to stick to them. FRISCO 1 was closed last August. FRISCO 1 was non-construction projects and were essentially preparations for FRISCO 2, which is already under way. FRISCO 2 is divided into several stages. The first, it says 2.1 on the Vonars, is already over, I think we opened that barrier with the Croatian side in November. Phase 2.2 on Mura and 2.3 on Drava are already underway. Building works if we go to what you asked me — 2.3. On the Croatian side, they are already under way, namely the reconstruction or elevation of the existing anti-floating wall of the Island of Virje-Bresje. The Croatian side will also carry out compensatory measures on the scale of the project under the title LIFE. And we are waiting, because Natura 2000 is on our side and we will start in August because then the impact on habitats on that part will be the smallest and then we can start our work. This is how we predict the timeline now that between August 15th and November 30th we will also perform these interventions on our side. This is because there is a coastal forest in the area and it is close to the intervention and the river Drava, which transfers the habitat within a number of qualifying species and habitat types. So before August 15th, our site can't start there with construction works. However, the measures are intended to increase the flow of Drava stream by regulating the handle of Mala Vas on the right bank of Drava. The purpose of the investment is to relieve the erosion of the right concave river Drava by regulating the hand of the Drava River on the existing infested gravel, through which part of the flow will flow in the high waters of Drava. As a result of the diversion of the matrix of the current, the right concave coastline is expected to be less burdensome and the further development of river morphology will take place in the formation of a stream with a greater distance from the regional road Ptuj-Zavrč. This means that the measure in question will have a positive impact on the wider area and the near existing road infrastructure. In accordance with the Flood Directive, protection against flood and optimum measures can only be achieved by taking into account the entire river, which, in the case at hand, extends across Slovenia and across Croatia. Maybe it's about the flooding of agricultural areas. The country takes care of integrated water management. So we also listened to the calls made by farmers near Drava, who established the Flood Task Force along the Drava River. This deals with the problem of flooding agricultural land, by seeking solutions to reduce damage to agricultural land in the event of floods. As an active member of this group, our ministry has committed itself to drawing up a more detailed management plan for Drava. This plan will be prepared by our Water Directorate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u318	Your Honor, once again, thank you for your word. I would like to refer to what Mr Minister has said about this initiative, which has been organised and is working precisely on how to solve these troubled flooded areas. Because it actually brings mud to these flooded areas, which is very toxic because it contains heavy metals. In fact, then, you cannot really produce anything that is wise or that should not be cultivated in those areas. But I would like to draw attention to one thing that people have asked me when I was talking to them when I was among them, and I asked them what their problems were. Everyone's afraid of one very important thing. The Austrians have already taken care of these flood protections, more or less ending these things on the Drava River. Also now, given that the Croats are just ahead of us, they are called Croatia, and have warned that they are afraid that it will occur right in this area of Lower Podravja, Ptuj and Ormož a kind of even stronger flood pocket and that even greater damage will then occur. It is said that there will be more damage on business facilities, on housing facilities and on production surfaces. I'm also interested in the following. I also know that a huge amount of money for the rehabilitation of the Drava river is also provided by the Drava power plant Maribor. I want to know: How much money does DEM spend on the rehabilitation of the Drava River and flood areas along the Drava River? In view of the fact that the rehabilitation in the middle of the Ormo Lake is in charge of Croatia Elektroprivreda, I am interested in: How much money do they invest in the rehabilitation of the lake and to reduce the flood threat of this area? I also want to know: What in particular has been done to solve the problem of the flooded Drava stream in the last five years on its entire flow, throughout the work that runs across Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u320	As far as the numbers of financial resources themselves are concerned, I do not have that in my head, nor am I prepared. But I'd like to point out some important things. When we talk about flood protection and river management and care about reducing the harmful effects of water, it is very important to look not only at the river, but at the entire river basin. You mentioned cooperation with other countries, both Austria and Croatia. I told Croatia that they can already work, but we are waiting because of the habitats on August 15th. But after the floods of 2012, if you remember them, there were those massive floods, as a result also due to Austrian power plants. Since then, however, this system of cooperation with the Austrian side has improved significantly, and now that similar weather extremities have occurred, we no longer have these problems, as we have had in 2012. And this is already due to this better inter-state cooperation, also on the basis of these unpleasant experiences from 2012. But with respect to the finances themselves, it would be best if you send me or set me up in writing, and we'll give it to you. Because these numbers, how much they cost, I don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u322	Here I must commend the Minister, because indeed all the questions I have asked orally have been answered in writing and in detail. Then they also wrote me, and with the numbers presented the results. Thank you so much for your ministry. I know that you, as Minister, are the least personally responsible for this, but you are responsible for these things improving and I am not here to bring you to despair with my question, but in fact to try to help you. I think that everyone in the National Assembly, at all, should also be meant to help each other, to be constructive, not destructive, or not just looking for points, for some ignorance. I will also say, given that Slovenia has a lot of problems with these flood areas. I would ask that we hold a debate in the National Assembly on this subject and also help both the Minister and the Ministry, as well as our own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 29 January 2020 in the framework of the votes. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, who will question the Minister of Finance, Dr. Andre Bertonclj, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u324	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister! Since the Minister is not present today, I would like his written answer. Much has been said about lending. I also closely monitored all the answers. I also understand the aspect of the competent minister for macroprudential supervision of the financial system, but the first data in the last quarter of the past year show reasonable concern about where the Bank of Slovenia's lending measure is taking. The latest data show that consumer credits have decreased by more than a third from October 2019 to December 2019, as well as a decline in housing loans by a poor half. I understand – and this is also necessary – that excessive growth in credit and public debt must be avoided, but it is not possible to overlook the fact that the weakest consumers are affected today, who are left to themselves and who are dealing with such a situation in particular with an individual significantly less favourable situation than the banks offer. In the last few months, I have met with such people in the field who have warned that they cannot rent a consumer credit for the purchase of oil, emergency repairs in the apartment, trees, even tooth repairs, they cannot rent a loan. We are not talking about large amounts, I am talking about thousands, not more than 2,000 euros that they have been able to rent in the past, paid off monthly and paid back in the heat by the new autumn. It's not possible today. So they faced the fact that rich individuals began to offer extremely unfavourable loans or speculative loans with tax returns that had to be used by the weakest individuals so that they could be warm today. This is absolutely unacceptable that in Slovenia we have banks that are already collecting extremely high fees for keeping accounts and also interest on loans are not small. But today, when an individual needs money, he can't get it. Indeed, credits are now directed only to the population of people who do not need credit at all or may even happen to be richer because they will hire credit and offer it to the weakest consumers under significantly less favourable, more stringent conditions. In spite of all this, I am interested in: How does such a measure by Banka Slovenije affect the revenue of the State budget in view of the lower consumption of goods and services by the population? As Minister of Finance, are you concerned that people, because of unapproved loans on our banks, will turn to individual speculatives with tax returns? Will this measure also affect the sale of dwellings on the market or in the final stage prior to sale?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Jerne Pikalu and Minister of Infrastructure mag. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u326	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! My question concerns the conditions for transporting groups of children. Vehicles and drivers for the transport of a group of children to school must meet several specific conditions. However, I would like to inform you that these strict conditions do not apply only to the transport of children to and from school, but they must be met by both vehicles and drivers who drive children to and from training, competition or their leisurely activities. The group of children is a group of at least five preschool children or children who attend primary school and represent the majority of passengers in a motor vehicle under the Road Traffic Regulations Act. The motor vehicle carried by a group of children in road traffic must also have recording equipment or so-called tachograph, among other conditions. Recently, we have received quite a few calls from members of various sports and fire companies concerning the provisions of the Road Safety Act and the Regulation on Special Conditions for Vehicles Transporting Groups of Children. In the light of the provisions of the law and regulation mentioned above, the transports carried out for their own purposes by companies are equivalent to professional transport activities. Or as the competent minister of sport and road transport, they really believe that such strict rules are also necessary for children's leisurely activities, as the motor vehicle must have a tachograph and thus a driver's card and a basic professional qualification, while the driver must not carry out any other work on a working day, such as driving or participating in sports, fire drills or training. Those provisions are very rigorous for societies and the carrying out of the carriage of children, although for their own needs, is very difficult for them. They must rely on the assistance of parents who carry out transporting both their own and foreign children in addition to them, or on their own vans to hire the transport of other professional carriers. It is particularly incomprehensible that in their vehicles they can transport a larger group of children if some of them are over 15 years of age. The latter difference is incomprehensible, for they are still children. Moreover, abroad, such rigorous rules are neither known nor required by EU legislation. In view of the above, I ask you: Will you examine these provisions of the law and regulation and propose appropriate amendments to allow sports, firefighting and other companies to carry out the transport of children under more acceptable conditions, for example without tachographs and special skills required for transport to school in line transport, i.e. for commercial road transport activities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Thank you also for the question, honourable Member. Traffic security is one of the key points of my ministry. When it comes to children and child safety, I am even more unforgivable, and this provision in the law you are talking about came just after one serious accident, where unfortunately too many died — everyone is too much, but here was the group. And any deviation from what is now in force would exacerbate traffic safety. It's the other way around. There are no exceptions to the fact that, for example, only fire vehicles or only certain other vehicles are not subject to these things. I got this initiative myself on the table, I've been doing a lot of work on it, it can be popular, it can be populist, but once again, I always have security, traffic safety, if it comes to children, and I don't have a derogation. Thus, I do not think that this provision should be amended in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u330	Thank you very much. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has a similar opinion as the Ministry of Infrastructure. We all know why these provisions came into this law. So because of the very bad accident of the children who returned from the ski — I think it was jumping — the competition. Look, these are things that we have to do everything we can to make sure we don't get into an accident or something. And here, the Minister and I have the same opinion. In short, the safety of children in such or other transports should not be reduced and this must be clear. What it says, what you also mention in your question, in fact, every modern vehicle already has what it says in the law itself, so the more this car technology goes on, the safer it is, of course. And it's right to move on, and it's right that they're safe for children. If I came – and now after the Minister's reply, I see that such an initiative will not come to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport – we could think. But I really don't think we should compromise on child safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Here you are, Madam Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u332	Nevertheless, even though you said that you also got the case on the table, you would present a few more arguments, namely an additional explanation for the tachographs on the case of these fire companies. We all know that the basic purpose of tachographs is essentially to monitor and limit the driving time of drivers and to monitor their mandatory rest periods. All these companies do carry out short transports within municipalities and regions, but they point out that these 8+1 tachographs do not actually have built-in tachographs, and fire companies point out that they have a thousand 300 fire companies and a thousand 500 such vehicles. Will these vehicles now carry fire young people? Will they have to install tachographs in these thousands of vehicles? Key, I think the problem is mainly tachographs, for everything else they agree that all the other strict conditions should remain, but the problem is with these tachographs, because a thousand 500 tachographs need to be inserted. If you've got your tachographs on, then he needs a driver's card so he can drive. On the basis of a card, he may obtain a code or a basic professional qualification. These transports are usually carried out by trainers or firefighters, officers who train this youth. They argue that they do not need driving restrictions because these are really short municipal, regional transports. It's not a long haul anywhere. And as it is said, they also say, for example, in border areas, that when a youth comes from neighbouring countries, vehicles should have an integrated tachograph, but they do not have one, because other countries and the European Union do not require it. Of course, firefighters, other sports companies and ourselves are aware that the standard of transport safety should not be reduced, but I do not know what the tachograph itself could then change. And there's another dilemma. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u333	I'm sorry. Technology's working. Madam Minister, will you answer? Yeah. You have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u334	Thank you very much. One more time. For me, when it comes to safety, especially when it comes to children, there is no derogation. And, honourable Member, believe that with all thousands of 500 vehicles owned by firefighters, children are not transported. That's the first thing. When I received the initiative at the table, I looked into the cost of this tachograph – a few ten euros. There's no derogation for me here. In 2007, after that terrible accident that happened, things were changed in the light of the best possible traffic safety for children. I tell you, I didn't trust my child to anyone else in the car, and I believe most parents think that. The tachograph is not only a recording function of the driver’s activity, but also a monitoring of the driving method. For example, recording speed at a given time. This certainly allows for a more detailed study of the causes of a possible traffic accident in view of the two important elements of road safety, namely the fatigue of the driver and the speed of the vehicle at the time of the accident and the accident, if unfortunately the accident occurs. As I have said, in the area of security, especially in the area of child safety, I do not deviate from what is now in force.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Lidija Ivanuša will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Magi. Kseniya Klampfer, which is a percentage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u336	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to ask the honourable Minister a few questions regarding the very low wage gap with financial social assistance, which, with other social transfers, may even exceed the minimum wage. Although the government claims to reduce the burden of work, there is still a lot of dissatisfaction with low wages among people. More and more people are being tarnished by stress, burnout, workplace relations are tense, they work hours and after productivity we are lagging behind other OECD countries. Slovenians are considered a good and working nation, and in principle we are ashamed to ask for social assistance. That is why I do not understand why we have such high budget spending on social transfers or why we are so generous with the distribution of those who could and should be living with work. The Employment Service should provide people with a job. When a person registers with a job seeker, the institution should seek out a suitable employer. The institution should be a bridge between the employer and the worker until the job. It's not enough to just send someone out for an interview. The purpose of the institution should be to hire an unemployed person. The Ministry has repeatedly acknowledged in its replies that it is experiencing irregularities in the enforcement of social transfers, but it seems disputed that foreigners – foreigners who do not live in Slovenia at all and are not subject to sanctions – are entitled to social transfers. Children's allowances are intended for children living in Slovenia. In view of the above, I ask you: What measures can the Ministry take this year to prevent the exploitation of social transfers? Why is work in Slovenia so low? Why is the difference between minimum wage and monetary social assistance with the addition to employment so low? I'd like an oral response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Željko Cigler will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u338	Madam Minister, I am asking you a question about the abnormally low use of track on Slovenian railways, i.e. the source from which maintenance and investment in railways should be provided. This matter in Slovenia is regulated by Article 15d of the Rail Transport Act, various European directives and European law. The fact is that this article imposes measures on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to determine the level of use. And now we come up with a problem. In Slovenia, the country or in its name, the railway infrastructure manager is charging a fee of around EUR 9 million per year, perhaps about 100,000 more, while the state budget is investing in maintenance investments and investment in expanding rail infrastructure, so far 200 million and a few million more, these investments have increased to over 400 million in recent years and will continue to grow. From investments in railway infrastructure, most are intended to improve transit from Luka Koper to the icy countries, in short, Austria, Hungary, Slovakia. Transit to the icy countries represents 70 % of all rail transport in the country. It follows from the above that, by not charging the economic benefits of Slovenia from public finances, from which it should finance supplementary health insurance, pension homes and so on, it subsidises the transit on an ad hoc basis in favour of the economies of the countries concerned and thus the entry costs of their economies, Hungary and Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you: What are the reasons why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports subsidisation of the economies of the hinterland by not charging the appropriate use of the routes for investment and maintenance of railway infrastructure carriers? In this way, virtually fewer available resources from the state budget, in short public finances, for the purposes of which we are talking repeatedly here, and we also agree together that this resource requires resources to build homes for pensioners, long-term care and many other resources. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u340	Thank you very much. Dear Member, we rarely agree. Today, too, because my modest opinion is that we should try and get as much cargo on the railways as possible. If that means abolishing the use, I'm willing to suggest that too. In short, not to tease and thereby further reduce the competitiveness of our railways, but to ensure that railways are as good as possible, so that as many railways as possible, this will have fewer pluses – fewer traffic, fewer discharges, a cleaner environment, less stressful driving for people, less accidents, more road safety. So I'm not here to share your opinion that this should be encouraged, but I'm sure we have to do everything we can to get as much cargo as possible on the railways.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u342	No, that's extra. The additional question is before that. Look, Madam Minister, I like that we agree, especially after this salary, that you yourself have admitted to me that when, from the state budget where there is no money for the homes of the pensioner, for investing in education, Škoda's knowledge that Mr Pikalo, who was unable to obtain – aha, I apologize – in the state budget for the co-financing of schools and kindergartens by Slovenian municipalities, went out. [[…]] However, the country, by not charging the use of rails for foreign economies, is funding these economies. It takes money from the basic purposes for which the budget is intended, in order to practically establish imprecise columns of freight transport. Traffic, which pays secondly and we have not talked about it, makes almost passenger traffic on Slovenian railways impossible. Since we have freight traffic, there is less scope and space to carry out passenger transport. This is especially true of Ljubljana and it is difficult for us to establish urban or regional transport with such intensive freight traffic, including around my Celje. The question was why we, as a country, finance foreign corporations and foreign economies, are even more competitive for us, and why we are taking money from the purposes for which we should give it: investing in knowledge, education, and social and, above all, older generations. And when it is said that there is no money for the abolition of supplementary health insurance – excuse me, it is not because we finance foreign countries through a low track, which is practically worthless. Madam Minister, in 2018, the engineering relationship with a bunch of experts, in cooperation with the Council of State, made this matter clear. Why doesn't that sound? Why Is It Unattended? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u343	I'm sorry. Technology also works for Levica. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u344	Mr Member, if you look at the budget, I think [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, I turned it on. That's it. If you look at the budget, I think the Ministry of Education has about 100 million euros more than it had last year, so it's hard to say that this government doesn't give for education, for knowledge and I don't know what else. Of course, we can ask ourselves whether this money is also allocated to the budget for all that we think is right or whether something is missing. I'll tell you again why my opinion on this utility is different from yours. Because I want more cargo to be transported on the railways than it's being transported today. That is why we are building the two-tier line of Divac-Koper, so this September the line will be renewed and a full line will be established from Maribor to Ljubljana. In half an hour you will be able to take a new train from Maribor to Ljubljana. And a whole bunch of other projects on the rail network could list you. In short, our goal is to load as many trains as possible. Our goal is not to get the trucks back on the roads from the railroad. What affects the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and we will probably find it very difficult to agree or find a common language. Once again, we're doing a lot of work. Infrastructure projects, two major infrastructure projects we managed to move from a dead point. We're renewing, speeding up the infrastructure. I wish there was more money, but there isn't. A budget like this has been adopted here in the National Assembly. With this, we will make as many projects as possible, rationally, and I very much want to make sure that for once in the future – not to say everything that is impossible, but – huge amounts of cargo from our roads get on the railways. In the end, believe that you will be pleased.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the agreement at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u346	Mr Vice-President, I agree with your suggestion that the National Assembly – this is also mine – will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the subject under consideration. However, I certainly do not understand what Mrs Bratuškova, the distinguished Minister, replied to me – that foreign countries should, at the lowest possible cost, almost free of charge through Slovenia, carry out freight transport, rail transport – because I do not know what Slovenia has of this. We are practically becoming a transit country with all the negative consequences, which ecological disasters also confirm for us. I'm asking for a hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 29 January 2020 in the framework of the votes. The word is given by Jan Mahnic, who will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc and the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikalu. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u348	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, respectable minister! About a year ago, the municipalities of Gorenje vas - Poljane, Železniki and Cerkno have been facing problems of wolf attacks. Currently, according to the data collected on the ground, there are about three tropics, and people are also at risk. Children no longer hope in school, nor do parents leave them. As a result, on 17 August last year, the Minister for Environment and Space, Simon Zajc, promised to co-finance additional school transport routes. On this basis, on 28 August, the Municipality of Gorenje vas - Poljane sent an application to the competent Ministry for the subsidy of extended school transport routes, and on 11 September it was also an e-application. On 24 September, the Institute of Forests found that wolves appear more frequently in at least two tracks and that the behaviour of wolves differs from that of wolves in the southern part of Slovenia, where they are constantly present, and that they have no evidence that the presence of wolves in such situations could not endanger a human being. On 7 October was the call of Gorenja Vas Primary School, 23 October of the Primary School of Poljana. What happens then? We have a meeting of the municipal council, a budget, an increase in the number of transports of school children. And I ask the mayor, "Didn't the minister guarantee that this will be co-financed?" He said, "Yes, he assured, but there is no money, there is no decision." Then, on December 20th, the opinion, one day earlier, of the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology, comes up: "The probability that a wolf attack on a child would occur in Slovenia is therefore extremely small, practically close to nothing. Therefore, the implementation and financing of the proposed protective measures in the form of regulated transport of children to and from schools, at least for protection against wolf attacks, is not necessary and is not justified by our assessment.” The Faculty of Biotechnical Technology, headed by Mih Krofl, had a project called SloWolf. They made a lot of money there to study wolves. They're anti-wolves. They don't think they're threatening anyone. We've seen the law, we've seen the statutes of the Faculty of Biotech, it doesn't say anywhere that the Faculty of Biotech is responsible for giving expert opinions. Then I asked the Minister himself to settle the matter, explain it, and said that, on the basis of Article 81 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, funds should be provided. To date, the municipality of Cerkno, Železniki and Gorenje vas - Poljane do not have the necessary decision to subsidize these extended transports. Dear Minister, for the environment and space and for education, I am interested in: When will the decision to subsidise extended transport be made? When are the funds for this?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u349	Thank you very much. Which one's first? Minister, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u350	Thank you very much. The first thing I want to clear up is that I didn't promise it, but I did. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, that's exactly why I looked at that record. There I said that one of the measures was the financing of school routes in cases where the threat was caused by big beasts, and the mayor was interested, and I said we would send the material. That was it. But then, when the Ministry of Education came to us to define ourselves, I wrote in a letter that although wolves do not attack people and even though such cases are very few, and because of the very intertwining of pastures and roads, because of such population and because the wolves have been observed so many times in the vicinity of the village, we recommend that, despite the opinion of the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology, they finance this path. From here on out, the minister will give an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u352	Thank you very much. That we're not around and long and so on, very simple. As far as we are concerned, we will finance, that is, Cerkno, Gorenje vas - Poljane, Railways, we only need the proper base. As the Minister has already said, and as has been the 8th. 1. He wrote, the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education is the one that gives us this basis. If I understand correctly, we need strategies and action plans to manage the wolf population in Slovenia, as the latest plans, if I know, were from 2009. But as far as we are concerned, we will finance these congregations, just as we finance 21 others, where the threat to the brown bear is chiefly ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u353	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u354	Thank you for your answer for your funding. Now I'm asking you for an answer when you're gonna start working. The opinion of the Biotechnical Faculty, Mr. Minister, is not an expert opinion. For professional opinions, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia established the Institute for the Forestes of the Republic of Slovenia. And I'll read it again. The Institute for Forests of the Republic of Slovenia issued an opinion that reads: “Volks are in these parts”, says Poljanska and Selska Dolina, also a church part, “appearing in at least two tracks, the behaviour of wolves here differs from that of wolves in the southern part of Slovenia, where they are constantly present, and we have no evidence that the presence of wolves in such situations could not endanger a man.” So we've heard you need some ground. This may or may not be Article 81, as the Minister of Education said, you mentioned the opinion of the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology, in short, those who are unfortunately also in the hunting line, but who care little about it, it is important for them to serve well with the project SloWolf. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: Where is the basis for taking into account the opinion of the Biotechnical Faculty? On the basis of our legislation, it is solely the Institute for the Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, but not some earners at the Institute for Forests. And more than that, on January 21st, last week, the meeting with the EU Commission, where Mrs Tanja Bolte, director of the Directorate – who is doing extremely much damage here, is extremely damaging for this area – has interrupted our mayor, Mr Čadež, and said that you already have these routes funded. No, you don't. I'm asking for an answer: When will you start financing additional routes for the transport of primary children?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u355	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u356	Maybe I wasn't clear enough. I didn't say they had to rely on the opinion of the Biotech Faculty. In my letter, I even wrote that, despite the opinion of our ministry, we suggest that these routes be financed.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u357	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u358	I mean, as far as we're concerned, it's obviously just tech. We, as we say, are already co-financed by the congregations for a brown bear. Just that we have the right grounds, and we're gonna get this thing done.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u359	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u360	I mean, this is really crazy. Look, we have two ministers who can't deal with each other and can't answer a simple question when. One says, we had an opinion from the Biotechnical Faculty, which is not binding, not necessary. Okay. That's okay. He's at the Ministry of Education to finance it. The minister says we have this 81st article, but we need some more techniques. What kind of techniques? How can two ministers not discuss one simple matter?Oh, my God! This is how it will be subsidised – I don't know how much – about 2,000 euros is more, as far as school transport is concerned on the way or for some period. Today, the president of the government resigned. I mean, because I believe no one wants to be the Prime Minister of the Government, where two ministers can't agree on how to finance the matter. Where is the basis, what is the problem? A year and a half ago, these experts from the Biotechnical Faculty claimed that two wolves or three wolves were present in the Gorenje region. On January 31st, we have a decision to fire five wolves. We were gathered yesterday by about 140 fighters. We had a drive. Three wolves were on the move. Unfortunately, they've had more luck than hunters, but that proves what our expertise is. Some claim that there are two wolves in a certain area, three wolves, in the end it turns out that the three tropics that walk in the yard are attacking domestic dogs that walk near children. And the only question is when will something happen? That's why it was said, and this is what the record says, Mr Minister, that at the time you said in the Tax that there was also an opportunity and that transport would be co-financed. I really don't understand that you both agree with this and that this is going to happen, but you can't answer me when. This is just an additional proof that bureaucracy is the one that is stifling our country, that the ministers obviously do not have control over those low-level third-class bureaucrats who live there — probably living somewhere in Ljubljana — decide how people will live, how people will live in the countryside. So please, let's discuss this. Above all, I ask that the decision to co-finance additional transport of school children to school be issued as soon as possible. Because once a wolf has been attacked by a child — the expert opinion of the Institute for Forests allows — it will be too late.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u361	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 29 January 2020 in the framework of the votes. Gregor Židan will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jerne Pical. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u362	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister of Education and Science! Slovenians and Slovenians like to look forward to the success of our athletes. Every so long, in which we take care of the euphoria of the sports industry, which we like to join in with the politicians. The fact is, such events connect Slovenians. These are the moments when we forget who is who we come from, and these are the moments when we realize how beautiful it would be if we were so unitedly performing everywhere and always. I am aware that this is an illusion that is probably never going to be achieved, but Slovenian athletes are constantly drawing another side in us. And this side, let's face it, is much more human, at the end stage, even closer to our electorate and voters than to the side of politicians in ties. That's why, respected and respected, I'm wearing a cheer scarf today instead of a tie. Also because I would like to remind you that Slovenian sport is not only when success is achieved, but also when sports, sports facilities and athletes need our help in terms of funding. As an example, I would like to mention the renovation of the Western Tribune of the Human Garden in Maribor and the entire reconstruction and renovation of the stadium behind Bežigrad. The problem is that such buildings are built for long periods of public use, and should not be defined in the interests of a sports sector alone. As a former professional footballer, of course, I am very pleased that money is devoted to the renovation and construction of football facilities. However, there are other sports and other sports facilities. Why do we always forget about other sports and also the society that would surely find its space in such facilities with a few more cartridges? Why aren't there athletic tracks built at football stadiums? Why are they not also designed so that athletics can be fully implemented? Are we really so rich that we build our own building for every industry? I don't think so. Of course, the state of such facilities is largely unfunded, but with various financial incentives it could attract investors in such a form to think more broadly and to think about other sports sectors. My question is: Does the State already allocate any financial means to promote the expansion of the object's purpose upon construction and renovation of sports facilities? If not, it is appropriate to consider this. I also want to know: What measures do you plan to take in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u363	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u364	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, for that question. You're right, yes. Of course, it is not only sports success, but it is also an infrastructure that leads to these sports successes being achieved. As far as the expansion of destination is concerned, it also depends on architecture, and on how such things go about sports objects. But we, I think, did very well when we stopped at sports gyms in the 1990s, with covered areas serving this multi-purpose sports hall. As far as money is concerned, as is the case with us elsewhere at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, as regards investment. By 2010, about EUR 4 million per year was used to maintain or upgrade sports facilities. Between 2004 and 2006, sports facilities amounted to slightly less than 12 million, including the European Regional Development Fund. However, in the period 2007-2013 this was, I think, around 86 million. Between 2013 and 2016, due to lack of resources, the country did not co-finance sports facilities. When I talk about co-financing, I am talking about because sports facilities are largely owned by municipalities other than the Nordic centre of Planica, i.e. local communities, and the state is just co-financing them. After 2016 this matter changed and a public invitation to tender was drawn up, so already in 2016 we had an invitation to tender to co-finance investments in the modernisation of sports facilities and in the construction of sports equipment. Similarly, with slightly amended proposals, it happened in 2017 and in 2018. In 2018, there is one importance that you may have highlighted. At the time, the tender specifically exposed the track with tartan. So as a very special part of it, and it was also a special part of it. In 2019 we stressed the illumination of the surfaces of uncovered sports facilities, and this was done according to the classification of OKS, and everything related to this. These calls are usually attended by municipalities owned or owned by land or already existing sports infrastructure, and the purpose of these calls is to get – exactly what you said – to a better, more functional, if you want upgraded, technologically updated sports infrastructure. It's important to follow logic. Not only logic, but also the priorities of the National Sport Programme in the Republic of Slovenia 2014-2023. There may be another important thing here: all such sports facilities are, of course, intended for top sports, but on the other hand, as we call it, recreation or, if you like, sports for all. And that's how it has to be. They must be widely accessible so that everyone else can use such facilities — outside the time it is intended for top athletes — if they are safe to use them. Because, of course, it is hard to imagine for a plane in Planica to be safe for non-competitioners — and of course they must be accessible to everyone because it is the idea of this mass sport. We also encourage, that is what I must say, investors, in order to approach the construction of a sport infrastructure that is intended for more industries. So not to the one-branches, but more to the industries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u365	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u366	I think that today is also an opportunity for our handball team to congratulate us on our fourth place in the European Championship. Too bad we weren't third. I think then everyone at the lower level would show up, but all honor to them. We agree that that project for the construction of school gyms for external use is a very good thing. With this we got some modern facilities where they could train and children in school, or teach, and clubs. What big events this isn't for. I hope we're so ambitious, we'll also have a big competition. I'm telling you, we can't do this at the school gym, unfortunately. I may be a bit premature and I'm going to say, at first, I don't know if you've noticed that I haven't even named you Minister of Sports. I'm sorry about that, that was a little provocative. My aim is that perhaps once in the near future, as we have the Ministry of Culture, which deserves it, sport also has its own special ministry. I'm telling you, these big events may already be in the near future. We know that the European Youth Football Championship will soon be held in Maribor. Maybe we're helping out a little bit by then, you're helping, not just with the money, you're cheering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u367	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u368	Thank you very much. The last renewal, we know, of these really big halls, was for the European basketball championship. At that time, what was restored was restored, and in fact, Maribor’s fell off. I am aware of this problem about the Tabor Hall, that it is not, and as far as I know it — I am speaking — it is not even finished as planned. But that's not how many decades ago. As for our participation in the European Youth Festival or the Olympic Youth Festival, also forecasting in 2023 in Maribor, we held our first talks. There are three-partite talks with the municipality, OKS and so on, so that we can see where with the infrastructure, which is sports and accommodation infrastructure on the one hand – I am talking about student homes, student homes and so on – we can come along so that such a project, which I think requires about 7,000 accommodations, can be successfully implemented. So we have to work together here. As for the European Championship. Right now, I don't have any information on what's going on. But we know this, and we are aware that the Tabor Hall needs to be restored in the near future. Because Maribor deserves such a great modern sports hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u369	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the next one. Janja Sluga will ask the Minister of Health Aleš Šabedra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u370	Thank you very much. I know, Minister, that you know that at Celje General Hospital, Celje is already building a replacement new building at the General Hospital. This is something that we have worked very hard for in the previous term, something that patients and hospital staff have been expecting for many years because they work under impossible conditions. However, the construction site finally began this month and the work began, and something happened that completely threw me off track. What happened? The Ministry unexpectedly, unannounced unilaterally, cancelled the contract for the supervisor's participation in this new building. By letter dated 16 January, he sent it to an existing supervisor. The withdrawal from the contract and the withdrawal shall be effected on the date of the service of the withdrawal. The supervisor received this derogation on 22 January and, as of 22 January, the multimillion-dollar hospital new building project does not have a supervisor. You all know what that means. If there is no supervisor, the work cannot be done, the site must be closed. If the construction site is closed, the works are standing, the damage is caused, there are also potential costs for additional works, there is a deterioration in quality, there is also the possibility that the supervisor will sue for damages due to this illegal unilateral intervention, and this is very irresponsible behaviour. Since this letter is signed by your Secretary of State and not by you, I ask you first: Did the Secretary of State have authority from you to act unilaterally, unilaterally cancel the contract for the participation of the supervisor in the replacement new building at Celje General Hospital? Something has to be said – this is the supervisor who is the only person involved in this project who has been involved in preparatory work since 2011, at the zero stage, even in the construction of the emergency centre, and is the only person who knows the project until the end of 2011. Nobody else in this project has been around since the beginning. I also want to know: Why did you unilaterally cancel the contract for the supervisor to participate in the new construction at Celje General Hospital because there is no argument? Why didn't you inform the hospital management? How do you plan to proceed with the project now?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u371	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u372	Thank you for your word, chairman. Thank you for the question, Madam Member. Indeed, investing in the Celje hospital is a very important investment, because we know that we have both spatial distress and hardship in the facilities themselves and that the investment was absolutely necessary. So that we don't talk so much about investment, I'm going to try to give you a very concrete answer to the things you're talking about. First of all, I'd just fix you up, so no construction site is standing there, and it won't cost. Since 2015, the Ministry of Health has concluded a contract with DRI Investment Management, the Infrastructure Development Company, d.o.o., which is exclusively owned by the Republic of Slovenia for the provision of advisory and engineering services for investments in health infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia. It is so-called horizontal in-house cooperation, public-public cooperation, when public authorities can join forces to ensure the delivery of public services without being committed in this regard to establishing a specific legal form for the joint implementation of public service tasks. An important part of such cooperation is the fact that there are no private ownership interests in the participating entities. Such cooperation is explicitly provided for in Directive 2014/24/EU and in the current Public Procurement Act, ZJN-3. The sixth paragraph of Article 28 of UNJN-3 defines the conditions which must be cumulatively met in order to allow an exemption to be applied to the so-called horizontal in-house. In particular, the contract for the execution of a contract provides for or establishes cooperation between the contracting authorities in order to ensure that the public services they are required to perform are carried out in pursuit of the objectives they share. This cooperation shall take into account only aspects of public interest, less than 20% of the activities covered by cooperation by the participating contracting authorities on the market. The value of the order item shall be equal to or lower than the price for that item on the market. All the above conditions are met in a specific case. In this regard, the Ministry of Health has already received an offer from the DRI for the provision of engineering control services in the framework of the project for the implementation of the first stage of replacement new construction at the General Hospital Celje in November 2019. It follows from that offer that the cost of implementation is significantly lower than that of an operator who has already exercised design control in the past stages. The Ministry of Health therefore did not accede to the signing of Annex 4 to design supervision for the purpose of carrying out engineering supervision, but engaged the State company DRI at a substantially lower price for engineering supervision. The signing of the contract with the DRI also follows the strategy of the Ministry of Health following the consolidation of investments and their supervision in one place. As you are aware and have also been mentioned several times by the Ministry of Health, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for investments in health care, equipment and construction, is devoted to a strong lack of resources. Aware of this, we must pay particular attention to rationalisation and proper control over the use of those resources at our disposal. The involvement of the State company DRI also follows this objective. The Ministry of Health will thus, and with the involvement of a state-owned company, which, as the Ministry of Health, cares for the public interest, will monitor more easily and more effectively the use of funds for investment in health, or by means of such funds, will achieve the greatest possible effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u373	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u374	Dear Minister, you haven't answered my question. You haven't answered my question about whether the Secretary of State was authorized to take this step. You haven't answered my question about whether you have a new supervisor, who's in charge at this point. I have here a legal opinion that says, Turk's law firm has issued it that the investor must immediately arrange for the appointment of a new supervisor or stop construction. No one's been informed about the new superintendent. According to the contract, the ministry should appoint a new supervisor within 42 days, not tomorrow. Perhaps, yes, the construction site is still operational, but it's operational, but it shouldn't. On 22 January, the overseer was relieved and the old supervisor could not come to the construction site if there was no new supervisor. You haven't informed anyone that you've appointed a new supervisor. No one, not before, not now. No information is available to the hospital’s management regarding the appointment of a new supervisor, so there is no supervisor. If there's an inspection, the construction site will be closed. I've read your legal opinion now. This is contrary to what the contract says: 42 days is the time to replace. But you have sent a letter: the derogation shall apply from the date of the service of the resignation. I want to know: Who will bear the costs for what has happened and what will happen in this building if you do not immediately appoint a new overseer?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u375	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u376	Thank you so much for saying that. The Secretary of State shall sign the documents in accordance with his or her powers. That's what happened in this document. As for the legal opinion that you spoke about or have just read it partially, I would ask you to have it. I don't have this legal opinion of the law firm you mentioned, I didn't remember the name, I'm sorry. So please, if you can provide us with this legal opinion. And in my opinion, the hospital's management has been informed of this. I can give it to you in writing, too, if that's not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u377	Thank you very much. You have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u378	Although I will not propose a procedural proposal, I will tell the Minister that he does not hold, the leadership has not been informed. It wasn't. And if you and your leadership were to communicate, you would have that legal opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u379	Then you can't discuss it. I'm sorry, Madam Ambassador, you can't discuss this. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Jean Mahnic will ask the Minister of the Interior of Bosnia and Herzegovina to ask him a question. The MP's not in the hall, so let's move on. Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister for Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u380	Your Honor, thank you for your word. I will start my question with a concrete example when I looked through my window on 7 July last year when there was a very serious natural disaster on Ptuj. It happened literally naturally. He came in a kind of, yeah, almost already a tornado and he took the whole roof off the next block and then literally threw it against our block or then the roof went on down the street. There's been a lot of damage. The price of this damage, according to the roof itself, cost about 35,000 euros. Some owners of these 25-story units had individual insurance policies, which also covered common parts. Others did not have such insurance. The building's total security has not been adjusted. So the average cost of the apartment was about a thousand 400 euros. In order to be able to approach recovery at all, owners had to collect half of the estimated value, which in any case was not a small supply. The problem of high-level owners in both buildings was similar – due to the uncultivated common insurance, the rehabilitation of this multi-family building took place only after a long period of time, since individual owners had to provide the reconstruction funds themselves. The existing Housing Act prescribes the insurance of shared premises as compulsory only for non-profit dwellings, and this is only an option for all other multi-residential buildings. Some administrators themselves have taken the initiative to protect the common areas of buildings, and others unfortunately do not. That's why I want to know: Do you have any data on the damage caused by natural disasters in multi-housing buildings in recent years? Do you have information on the number of multi-housing buildings as a whole in the Republic of Slovenia and the share of these insurance in the fund of all multi-housing buildings in the Republic of Slovenia? In view of the draft new housing law, whose public treatment was concluded at the end of November, I am interested in: Do you intend to intervene in the area of multi-housing buildings as a whole before the proposal for a new law? If you intend, I wonder which direction are you looking for new solutions, and would you, for example, reduce the level of the owner's necessary consent from 75% to 50%? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u381	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u382	The housing law has already ended with a public hearing. We are now finishing meetings this week with the various groups that have made their comments. Our plan was that one. 2. 2020 puts the law into a shorter public hearing, while at the same time putting it into intersectoral coordination. In my opinion, the law we have drawn up is very good. I'm going to regret this marriage the most about what happened now. But well, the future minister who will come will have the law ready for the interdisciplinary and can only carry it forward. The law will lead to a good basis for finally increasing the public housing fund, which has so far been the main problem of our housing policy. It is true, however, that we have not touched on this work in our proposal, that is to say a 75 per cent agreement on insurance, but we have received many initiatives in the course of the public debate in order to make this more meaningful, and we have already decided to do so. Thus, this law, which will now wait for the next one, will have a reduced rate of 75 % to 50% to cover joint buildings or multi-owner buildings. And this rate will apply in case of policy change. We don't have accurate data on how many secure buildings there are. According to some estimates, around 10% of them are not insured, but take this with a few reserves because we don't collect this data. These are some of the data we received during the public debate, but I don't know how accurate they really are. But once again, on the basis of the comments we received during the public hearing, even in other areas, we will be the law – which I believe was already very well prepared in the original, but during the public hearing we have been alerted to some things that we agree should be changed. One of these is to reduce it from 75 to 50%. What we're still thinking is whether this insurance would be paid from the reserve fund or not. We need to align this with both internal and stakeholders, which is more appropriate and more meaningful. However, it is important for us to prepare the law in this part by making as many buildings as possible — even in the case of such cases as you have had — unfortunately, such cases will be more frequent — secure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u383	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u384	Thank you for your word. As you have already mentioned, when the level-level owners do not reach a consensus of 75 % for the conclusion of the joint insurance of a multi-entity building as a whole, in the event of damage, they bear the weight of the rehabilitation, as you have mentioned in fact. Here I see the biggest problem – in fact, each level owner decides individually whether and how he will and in which insurance company will insure his share in the joint parts of a multi-family building. This is where I want to know: Would you agree with my initiative, which I have presented a little earlier, to introduce mandatory multi-entity building insurance as a whole? It is said that this would be a mandatory and possibly part of the contract between the manager and the owners of the multi-entity buildings in order to allow operators to take on part of the responsibility and should arrange for this multi-entity building insurance. Given that, as you mentioned earlier, climate change is always worse, storms are always worse, accidents are always worse, it seems appropriate – in fact, accidents are also dictated – that insurance companies change some of their insurance policies and add more detail to their insurance policies of natural disasters, which are unfortunately, even in my places, as well as in Slovenia in general, and also around the world, are always more frequent. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u385	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u386	To go in this direction to introduce compulsory building insurance is from my point of view – I am still a liberal, I think it is more right that we trust so much, these are owners who are full-year-olds, their opinions that they decide for themselves. But I agree with these proposals that have come, including yours, that this limit should be reduced to 50%, because then it is much easier to obtain enough consent for such insurance to be concluded. But I think we really have to let people have this opportunity to trust them so much that they know themselves as full-year-olds when it comes to their own property, they make the right decision. But it is up to us as a country to make this process as easy as possible for them. However, if it turns out that this 50 per cent rate is not enough enough to have serious problems with the occurrence of mass cases, that buildings are not insured or poorly insured, then it will probably be necessary to consider such a step as compulsory insurance. But at this point in the public debate, we have not seen this need from the proposals and I think that this limit, which will be lowered to 50, if adopted in such a form, will be sufficient for the number of buildings covered to be as close as possible to 100 %. However, there will be a general awareness that, given the ever more unpredictable weather and the increasing frequency of extreme weather events, it is wise to protect its assets for such cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u387	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u388	Mr. Secretary, I'm afraid we disagree here. We know, I'm an sworn socialist, but I think that common good or common property is very important, but I respect your opinion and these matters. However, I would like to mention in the light of these climate changes, as well as the European Green Agreement, which is now on the table or will go directly to the discourse and then to the realization. I propose that a debate be held in the National Assembly, however, on the subject of the insurance of multi-housing buildings as well as common insurance assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u389	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 29. In January 2020, in the framework of the vote. Mag. Bojana Muršič will ask Health Minister Aleš Šabedra a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u390	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers! The dental activity in Slovenia, despite the fact that dental services are a compulsory health insurance right, is poorly regulated. I especially detect these problems in Maribor and its surroundings, where access to specialist services is extremely limited. Oral disorders are very important and are a major public health problem. Poor oral health also has an important impact on the general health of the population. Some oral diseases are also associated with chronic diseases, and the consequences of poor oral health also affect the quality of life and the productivity of the population. Therefore, it is so important that patients are given rapid, quality and effective treatment for oral diseases. The needs of the population are extremely high. Access to the most basic specialist interventions, prosthetic substitutes should be improved, and patients with reduced opportunities and special needs should be given equal treatment. The waiting time for endodontic examination at Dr. Adolf Drolc's Health Center for regular examination is 22nd. 1. 800 days, for a “fast” diagnosis of 707 days, for the first paradoxological examination following a regular procedure of 633 days and 269 days for rapid treatment. At the same time, I would point out that individual patients have been warned that, due to the departure of a specialist in the public health system, they no longer accept new travel instructions for endodontic examination. I'm wondering where it's going, where it's equal treatment, where patients are going to look for these services. At such waiting times, many people are born to have no need for this service at all at the time of the deadline. Paradoxically, they can only carry a single specialist when they turn, prosthesis. Not to mention the traumas such a patient may experience. Do we want to, do we deserve this kind of dental care? I absolutely don't think so. That's why I'm interested in: Is the Ministry of Health, along with the professional health field in the field of dental and dental care, looking for solutions? What measures in this area can the Ministry of Health expect patients to reduce waiting periods in dental care and be accessible to all under the same conditions? Thank you for the first part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u391	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u392	Thank you for your word, chairman. Thank you for the question, Madam Member. At the end of 2018, the Ministry of Health appointed a working group to prepare an oral health strategy for the period 2020-2029. The working group consists of representatives of the Ministry of Health, Medical Chambers of Slovenia, National Institute for Public Health, Medical Faculty, Dental Clinic UKC Ljubljana and representatives of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. As part of the preparation of the strategy, a working group was also appointed by the Slovenian Medical Chamber, where additional meetings were held to prepare harmonised opinions and materials. The task of the working group was to develop a dental strategy, which included a knowledge of the existing documentation and the identification of the main domains for determining the health system indicator in the field of dental care, an analysis of the state of health indicators in the field of dental health in the country, and a strategy for the development of the area or indicators, including the identification of areas to be developed or to be developed. The working group carried out its activities and the result of the work is a proposal for an oral health strategy for the period 2020-2029. The aim of the oral health strategy in Slovenia is to preserve and strengthen oral health for all population groups throughout life. The objectives of the oral health strategy are focused on three key segments: the first is legislative, other material and human resources, and the third is oral health monitoring. The oral health strategy for the period 2020-2029 has also been endorsed by an already extended dental professional college. It must now be dealt with only by the Health Council, which is expected to meet in February. Following the adoption of the strategy, it will immediately join the Action Plan for implementation only and the implementation of the strategy. In addition to the insufficient number of specialists for the said specialisation, the problem you are referring to the waiting hours for the endodont review and the paradoxological examination is that it is a more recent specialisation since 2010. The specialisations of doctors and dentists may also be carried out only in the case of operators fulfilling organisational, human, material and other conditions and authorised to carry out specialisations. If there are no vacancies for the training of specialists in these operators, no invitation to tender for specialisations shall be possible. Therefore, in 2019 only two specialisations for paradontology were awarded and there were no vacancies for dental and endondontic specialisations in 2019. The Ministry of Health has already taken a number of initiatives at the Slovenian Medical Chamber to increase the number of authorized institutions where specializations from endodontia, dental diseases can be carried out. The Slovenian Medical Chamber is preparing changes in this area. This will also enable a call for more specialisations. The Ministry of Health has also set a quota for the first time since 2019 in a decree on the upper limit on the number of offers for work for 2020, also for specialists in dental medicine doctors despite opposition from the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. At the Ministry of Health, we are aware of this problem and of the problems of too long and too long waiting periods, so we are implementing measures that I have also mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u393	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u394	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister for your explanation or this strategy. It's nice that the strategy is written that the RSK has already confirmed it. According to the 2019 programme, there were no specialisations for endodonts, it is also quite clear. It is also true that there are currently more dentists in Slovenia and they are above average, but in a very short time many will also retire, so in a very short time there will be a shortage of dentists. I want to know: Do you support a dental medicine program at the University of Maribor that has had all the conditions for developing this programme for more than two years? However, I must certainly express my regret that, with the resignation of the government, this means that this year's university is unlikely to be able to present new programmes, as the new 126 000 euros need to be provided. It's probably a year lost, a year lost of opportunity, and that makes me extremely sad, which is what all patients will feel in the long run. The dental medicine program could train 30 new dentists and thus improve the dental condition of residents and residents. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u395	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u396	Perhaps I can briefly explain, Madam Member, that the Ministry of Health is supporting a new dental medicine programme at the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor. In fact, we're in a lot of contact with the head of the university, listening to their wishes and needs. We are working well together, and we are also working with the Ministry of Education to find solutions for both new programmes and to finance these new programmes. So the answer is yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u397	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomic will ask Justice Minister Andreja Katič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u398	Thank you for your word. Today, we are celebrating the worldwide Holocaust Memorial Day because 75 years ago, the Allies liberated Auschwitz - Birkenau camp. In these very days Slovenia is strongly shaken by the fact that the Supreme Court has annulled the sentence against the war criminal, the anti-Semite, the occupying associate and the commander of Slovenian patriots General Leon Rupnik. This shameful decision is outraged and protested by various organizations such as the Association of Fighters for the Values of NOB Slovenia, the Ljubljana Jewish Cultural Center, the Simon Wiesenthal Center, also in Levica, because Leon Rupnik was a symbol of the cooperation in Slovenia during World War II, undoubtedly responsible for numerous crimes against the civilian population and the legitimate partisan army recognized by the Allied Forces during the war at the 1943 Tehran Conference. He was responsible for the deportation of many Slovenian Jews who ended up in German concentration camps of death, not to mention crimes against supporters of liberation movement. Finally, he was also responsible for the post-war tragedy of domestic soldiers, which would never have happened if the government had been instructed in exile and many of the allies' calls had ceased to serve the German occupation. In addition, in the 1946 trial, in contrast to the other accused, he confessed his guilt and accepted the judgment. The annulment of the Rupnik trial raises a number of painful questions. Not only is dignity conceived for the numerous victims of the occupying violence, also committed by his slave collaborators domestics and white guards, but they are, by repealing the wide-ranging door to historical revisionism, rehabilitation of cooperation and fascism in Slovenia, condemning the entire civilized world. Your party of the Social Democrats also strongly condemned this annulment of the judgment, so I ask you: Why, as SD Justice Minister, did you do nothing to change legislation in time that allows for the annulment of judgments against war criminals? How do you comment on the fact that Rupnik admitted the guilt in court, so in 1946 he did not have to explain all the points of the accusation, which led to the annulment of this judgment on the basis of the so-called procedural errors? I'm asking for your answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u399	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u400	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Minister, honourable Member. It was the Supreme Court's judgment, not the Supreme Court. And yes, I was shocked myself when I saw this judgment. However, it was issued on the basis of amendments or Article of the Criminal Procedure Act, which was adopted and on the basis of which it is no longer possible to submit such requests today, since the Social Democrats, when the previous Criminal Procedure Act attempted to introduce this provision again, even because of our decision, the law was not adopted, despite making a number of other good provisions for victims. Even in this mandate, when we were preparing and adopting the law on criminal proceedings in novel N, this same amendment was again tabled, which we rejected at the time. So that's not possible today. But back, unfortunately, it's impossible to interfere. But no matter what happened, this annulment does not deny the historical truth that Rupnik carried out an unacceptable and all-condemning collaboration with fascist, Nazi invaders. And this is part of a historical truth that no one can change. This is recognised by the profession, historical profession both in Slovenia and outside. That it was an unacceptable collaboration to the very great detriment of the Slovenian people and other victims of World War II in Slovenia, it also stems from the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Just as our party responded immediately and messages, as others say, this clearly comes from the views of everyone, that we appreciate the gains of national liberation and that without this Slovenia today as a single country, there would probably be no us as individuals or as a nation. Like I said, the judgment itself surprised me. Judgments concerning the period of half-lived history always stir the public up. As you may recall, in 2017, in the event of a request relating to so-called 1943 nomadic trials, the court rejected the claim as unfounded and took the view that the then extraordinary military court was, by way of formation, the composition of the Senate, the type of cases under consideration and the rules of action, comparable to the regulation of other courts during the war. As Justice Minister, I must not reject the Supreme Court's judgment. The judgment has been delivered and is in effect. And also the fact that we now have an independent judiciary is the acquisition that we have won after the war at the expense of the values that we have also set by national liberation. The principles of the rule of law, the division of power require that, at times, we also face judicial decisions that we did not expect, new requirements, as I said, for the protection of legality against such a historical judgment under the Criminal Procedure Act, cannot be applied any longer, as the legal time limit has expired and we have prevented it from being extended again. Finally, let me say that I am a long-standing member of the Association of National Liberation Fighters of Slovenia, and that I will never agree to this, irrespective of any judgment, irrespective of the content of the decision, that this would be the basis for any relativisation of clear historical facts, that the collaboration with the occupier of all condemnation was worthy and repudiation, and that this was certainly one of the most repudiatory acts in Slovenia's history. And I believe that's what the broader profession has said, as historic as it comes from the judgment itself, that one procedural error of this fact will never be able to erase.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u401	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u402	Your Honor, I know very well that this annulment has been ordered by the Supreme Court. I also know that today it is no longer possible to submit these requests for certain changes, but obviously for many too late. I regret that. You also cite the case, and I will state that in fact the annulment of this judgment is even unconstitutional. If I remind you that the Constitutional Court in the 1990s, on a similar basis, has already replied that the provisions of the Law on Offences against the People and the State were not in line with the general legal principles recognised by civilized nations at the time of their entry into force, I think you spoke about this in your reply. In view of the fact that one of Rupnik's grandkids has demanded judicial protection, I am interested in: How do you plan to prevent Rupnik's descendants from receiving war compensation? How do you plan to prevent other criminals and invaders from being asked by their own associates or even by their own invaders to pay them damages in the war? How could this annulment of the judgment take place in view of the fact that war crimes do not get old? We know that after the war the courts worked their best to prevent personal revenge because there were many different emotions. The camp leader Auschwitz - Birkenau was hanged when he appeared when he was found with a view to the crematorium. It is good that it is not part of the Slovenian justice system, because I do not know what we would do with such a man today. I think, Minister, that we must urgently prevent these things from happening in the future. The pain of the victims is so severe, and by tolerating and abolishing the judgment of the greatest war criminals, we are opening the door to something that can only lead to repeating the darkest parts of history.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u403	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u404	Definitely. In view of the fact that the Supreme Court has now annulled the judgment and returned it to the Court of First Instance, some proceedings will be carried out here, and it is possible that the Constitutional Court may be judged. What would have been my initiative and I wanted the Social Democrats to trigger it today was that the National Assembly, as such, would have adopted a resolution, that the partisan national liberation struggle was one of the foundations for our independent Slovenia, for our country, to be preserved as a nation. Regardless of what has happened also on the basis that we are here in the National Assembly or that we have adopted such legislation here in the National Assembly, which has allowed for all these processes, there is no doubt that the National Assembly, as the highest institution, exists a collaboration and the historical memory is that the partisan national liberation struggle is the basis for our statehood and that cooperation with the occupying party is the betrayal that families, Slovenia as such, have suffered, that the invader would want to wipe us out of the face of the earth, so all condemnation is a worthwhile act. I think that this would be the big step, unfortunately today's events have brought a different divide, but I believe that in the future this will also be what the National Assembly might consider and adopt such a resolution as such. We have a number of other initiatives to issue resolutions. I certainly think that this would be necessary, even in the light of all anniversary, even in the light of the fact that today, unfortunately, forms of fascism, Nazism appear again, and that younger generations need somehow to be remembered and reminded that these stories never happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u405	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u406	Thank you very much. In view of this initiative, Minister, I have the opportunity to make a procedural proposal for us to hold a debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly on my proposal or your proposal to finally define what fascism and Nazism is, and that national liberation is the one that helped Slovenia to stand alone and to have our own language and country at all. We know that the invader wanted to wipe us off the face of the earth, and all those who helped him do so are worth all the accusations and convictions. That's why I think, in fact, that a lot of the invaders' employees lived far away, across Argentina and everywhere else, even the Wolf, the son of Leon Rupnik, was killed by one battalion of guerrillas when they were talking about the post-war killings in Koroška. Because these people are famous and because young people in Slovenia today do not know who the attacker was and who defended even partisans as bandits, as our attackers and conquerors have called them, it is a very difficult matter. How will young people decide in the future if they do not know the past and do not know how to evaluate it? I think it's about time we finally said what's right, what's wrong, who was on the right side, who was wrong, because reconciliation was achieved in 1945. What we've been doing since 1990 is not good for Slovenia, it's destroying it in its essence, and it condemns the whole of Europe. We know that Europe was created on the basis of anti-fascism, so on 9 May it is the holiday of Europe, but as they say today, it is not the Christian values, because it is the holiday of Europe itself. Therefore, if we are to maintain the values we have, if we are to maintain the peace we have, the democratic order and the future for future generations, it is necessary to discuss the proposal you have encouraged, and I can give it by way of order, to finally condemn the collaboration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u407	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 29 January 2020 in the framework of the votes. Mag. Andrej Reich will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jerne Pikal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u408	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister! A lively debate is taking place in the region of northeastern Slovenia these days, in which the Centre for Hearing and Speech in Maribor is suppressed. It is a central institution in the area of northeastern Slovenia that deals with deaf and deaf children and adults, children and adults with speech-language disorders and children with autistic disorders. The Institute has been housed since 2002 at a location on Vetrinska Street. At the time, he had 44 students. Today it implements the programme in two locations and implements the kindergarten, primary school, health care and mobile unit programme. About 270 children attend kindergarten and primary school, and about 300 children are provided by mobile services and over 5,000 different children and adults are treated by a healthcare provider. The proportion of deaf children is relatively low, while the proportion of children and adolescents and adults with speech-language disorders and autism is increasing. Thus, it is not unusual for individuals to be treated at the same time from 3 to 6 disorders. As I said before, the sealing facility operates at two locations. The first facility is a former children’s hospital, while the second facility is shared with students in a student’s home. In 2010, project documentation was prepared at the level of the idea design. Since then, the number of guards and employees has more than doubled — from 100 to 200. This project is therefore no longer appropriate. I am also well aware of the situation in the institution, since I have seen the situation on the ground. Small casinos of 20 square meters, with 6 children with special needs, are not suitable for their development and work. It is also not appropriate that external patients – more than 5,000 per year coming to health care, speech therapy, and special pedagogical treatment – are not physically separated from the spaces used by kindergarten and school. Dear Minister! In the past, exactly in 2009 your ministry addressed the same issue. Since then, there has been no major shift in the area of disaster relief. So I ask you again: Is the Ministry aware of the situation in the institution? Is he preparing a timer to resolve these matters? No matter what you say, I would like you to start working with the Ministry in interresor cooperation with the Municipality of Maribor looking for a location [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u409	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u410	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, the Ministry is aware. I have to say, he's also monitoring the situation. Unfortunately, we can no longer boast about it. Visits in the field, meetings, as you yourself described, in the past days and weeks are a little more intense due to the events around the Maribor House. The Maribor Hearing and Speech Center in the Diaška House is already hosting. It needs a centre of 52 classrooms, it needs a gym for 61 hours of sports, 8 hours of compulsory and optional selection content and so on and so on. If I were to, I'm talking about not making a decision, but if we were to step up our efforts in the direction of remodeling and all that's in the student home now that there's more to the hearing and speech center, then we could at least partially ease this situation. We're not going to save her. This is going to be very hard to save. You are right, however, that not only the Ministry of Education here, but also the Municipality of Maribor and probably the Ministry of Health, so we have to participate in this triangle. At the same time, I would like to point out here that we are promised European funding for so-called reference centres for children with special needs. The hearing and speech centre Maribor could become one of these or already this reference centre. Then this money could be meant to solve this problem. But if you ask me, I think the closest solution around the Maribor House is to come together the Maribor City Hall, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u411	Thank you very much. Don't you want to add? Good. Then we move on to the next question. Ambassador Branko Simonovic will ask the oral question to the Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bertonclj, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u412	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary! Since last year, taxation has been strained on the labour force. For those who have been active in employment and have retired in accordance with the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, this annual allowance is not subject to tax relief. Much of the pension and pensioners’ annual allowance is intended primarily for the payment of regular monthly liabilities, as pensions, in particular in relation to the income of the active population, are much lower compared to salaries. I also see no reason for the different taxation of the active and retired population in relation to these two incomes. The tax relief may be carried out in a package of tax changes, and in this regard I ask you: When will you make this tax change and relieve the annual pensioner allowance, which would be very welcome for pensioners and low-retirement pensioners? Thanks for the answer. On the basis of Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I request an oral reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-01-27-SDZ8-Redna-15.ana.u413	Thank you very much. You will receive an oral response at the next meeting. Mr Simonovic was the last to ask the question. This concludes or closes the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue on Wednesday, 29 January 2020, when the National Assembly decides on the proposed decisions in the context of the votes. I am also adjourning the 15th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night!
