ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I begin the 18th meeting of the National Assembly, which was convened on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Yuri Lepi by 2 p.m., Marko Bandelli, mag. Bojana Mursic by 6 p.m., Dr. Franc Trček, Brane Golubović, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko and Robert Pavšič from 16:00 on. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the State Council to the 6th and 7th items of the agenda, mag. Mr Gregor Kos and Mr Juret Pogačnik, representatives of the 5 thousand elections and voters, on the 8th item of the agenda, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, on the 14th and 15th items of the agenda and representatives of the Government on all agenda items. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 18th regular meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 5 June 2020, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 18th regular meeting of the assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received, within the deadline of business, written applications for 39 questions from the Member States. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, as well as by the member of the ruling coalition. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The Prime Minister, ministers, ministers, respond to questions within five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answers may request an additional reply but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who has asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the reply of the President of the Government, Minister or Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and without explanation of vote. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that such a proposal needs to be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, but not on the procedural proposal to be used for the substantive debate on the question raised. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, Dr. Ange Logar, Minister for Foreign Affairs, apologized today, from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. and Tomaž Gantar, Minister of Health, from 17 p.m. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. The question will be asked by Predrag Baković from SD, Nataša Sukič, Maša Kociper and Janja Slug. First of all, colleague Predrag Baković has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! At the 13th regular meeting of the National Assembly, I addressed an oral question to the then President of the Government, Mr Marjan Šarc, on the issue of the issue and the activities of the guard. In response, the President of the Government then explained that the National Security Council of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior had instructed them to prepare legislative changes as soon as possible, so that competent authorities could act on the activities of self-declared village guards and groups such as the Stair Guard. Amendments to the Law on the Control of State Borders and the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace were then prepared at the MNZ, where both novels were confirmed as suitable for further consideration at the 15th meeting of the National Assembly. We then also discussed these novelties in the Committee on Home Affairs, where they were not adopted after the debate and the procedure on the Home Committee was thus concluded. This has given additional wind to the sails of the guards, who are becoming more and more impertinent. If in the beginning they performed only the troops in Styria, then they began their activities at the southern border. They started with trainings that strongly resemble training of military units, were equipped and also equipped with weapons or replicas of weapons that make it look like the law, camped at the state border, carried out troops, and excited the general public at home. That wasn't enough. The unit was also performed in uniforms and with weapons in the Kočevska River, and in the place where it was first breathed after the Slovenian Army, some of them had their face covered. The formation then walked through you in a full formation of weapons, actually having a mini-military parade. This continued to alarm the inhabitants there and they wonder whether we do not have sufficient resources to protect the border as well as the rest of the country's territory. Then, at the cultural festival, he followed the front of the Presidential Palace, where they saluted and then entered the uniforms into the palace itself. He followed a problematic event in Slovenska Bistrica, which is known to everyone. They also enjoyed harassing the camp owner at the state border, who was told that he was suspected of smuggling migrants across the state border and even being observed. They have thus taken a right which should not, in any case, be allowed and should be duly sanctioned but not. The chronology of events shows that the guards are increasingly taking over activities that should only be carried out by the police, and the question is what will be their next step if, of course, the state does not prevent them from doing so. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. President of the Government: What position do you have regarding the operation of the guards? Do you believe that applicable legislation already allows competent authorities to be properly sanctioned? What measures will you take to sanction and prohibit the operation of guards and similar self-proclaimed village guards? However, if you feel that the competent authorities cannot implement measures against members of the guards, I ask you: Do you support in the legislative procedure the proposed amendment of both laws? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u3	Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u4	Thank you for your question. I personally believe that the competent authorities have all the powers to act in such and similar cases. As far as I know, some procedures are ongoing. I don't mind that the legislation is being adequately supplemented, but you need to know that the Constitution and the law are here in order that they apply equally to everyone. Thus it is already coming in relation to the problem you have been talking about, to various interpretations and various calls to the competent authorities to act. The authorities responsible for maintaining public order and peace and protecting the state border must respect the Constitution and the law, regardless of whether it is an infantry guard or a bicycle guard, whether it is a guard in masked clothes or in black clothes and a mask. I think that if everyone is able to respect the law and carry out their duties, then things like those mentioned by you, including the humiliation of the police and certain other events listed above, do not have a place in normal democratic society.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u5	Mr. Baković, you have an additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your answer. See, Madam President, at the event in Slovenia Bistrica, the response of the competent authorities was quite silent and also late. Finally, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Kangler, explained to the press that the UN does not prepare any specific legislation that would restrict the activities of the guard. Therefore, we have prepared these two novels, which somehow define such behaviours and do not define here that the law does not apply to all or only to one group, but, as it is written, applies to all. That's why it's right for us to focus on these things. I am pleased that, in fact, the President of the State, Mr Borut Pahor, has already identified himself on several occasions, and in his latest writing he has brought down some problematic events and also the infirmity of the security authorities. I am also pleased to note that the proposed novels would regulate both the State Border Control Act and the Law on Public Order and Peace to the activities of such voluntary and self-organised groups. It is therefore right for all of us to focus together on regulating these situations and to prepare somehow effective solutions. So once again, I ask you: What concrete measures will you take to sanction and prohibit the operation of guards and similar self-proclaimed village guards? As the police have repeatedly assured in the past, they do not have adequate solutions in existing legislation to prosecute such behaviour. Therefore, things are also expanding and such groups are becoming more and more bold. I myself believe that the solution is to change and to supplement the relevant legislation. I want to know: Will you support these changes or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u7	Prime Minister, complement the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u8	Look, I have quoted some of the articles of the Penal Code that apply here at one of the previous meetings, in my opinion, these provisions are unequivocal. But it is true that some authorities do not interpret them as such. Also in this case in Slovenska Bistrica, where I believe it was an unacceptable humiliation of the police, the District Attorney's Office in Maribor said it was nothing criminal. Just as the Ljubljana D.A. said, death threats are not something that is pursued by official duty. We will examine whether it is really necessary for prosecutors to write exactly what sentences must be pronounced in order to pursue this under official responsibility. I hope you will then support such changes in the law. However, I hope you will also give a clear message publicly. Look, there's a picture of your former president on the network, handling a general of the so-called Styrian Guards, where they were together for some celebration. It may have been some provocation, a purely random matter, but look if you're going to the same celebration together, then it's hard to ask for a ban on these activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u9	My friend Baković, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u10	I will say so, the actions carried out by the so-called guard, regardless of whether you have shown a photograph, where we know, in fact, how this event occurred, probably you, but we must know that such events and those acts that they carry out are becoming truly condemned and increasingly arrogant. And, of course, problematic. This should be borne in mind by all, particularly those responsible, such as the Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice. Dear President, I do not understand from your answer that the Government intends to deal effectively with this issue. I therefore propose a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u11	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal tomorrow, 16 June 2020, in the framework of the votes. The word is from colleague Natasha Sukić, Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Chairman. Your Honor! Dear Mr. Janša! Ever since you took power, you've been at war with everyone, with the media, with the judiciary, with the intellectuals, with NGOs, with the opposition. In short, with everyone who doesn't think the way you think. In this war, one of your main weapons is the social network, especially your private one, and unfortunately also the official government Twitter profile, which you abuse to discredit and promote SDS. Since the first day of government, you have been stepping up or leading an offensive against Slovenian and foreign media, such as Deutsche Welle or The Economist, when they dare you to criticize you or when they project an opposition agenda or when you do not like the image you see there. Your media records, Your Honored Prime Minister, are graciously said to be unworthy of the Prime Minister. You insult journalists with prostitutes, you publicly call for non-payment of RTV posts and you use your position at every step to humiliate or intimidate journalists. It is no coincidence that, according to the Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe, Dunje Mijatovic, Slovenia has found itself on an unenviable list of countries where pressure on journalists and unacceptable interventions on the right to information. We found ourselves in a society of half dictatorships, such as Turkey, Russia, Hungary. Mr Janša, you have always considered yourself a great European and a great Democrat. Just your attitude towards the media shows you're not one or the other. You think the press is taking a bad picture of you, but it's the other way around. You, Mr. Janša, with your attacks on the media, with your anger on Twitter, with your low-level account, are the ones who paint to the public the image of an immature, uncontrollable, ambitious and bitter man who is unable to bear the mildest criticism and who is therefore manically smashing every mirror you do not like, every mirror that shows an ugly picture of him. You know, Mr. Janša, it's a vicious circle. The more you smash your eyes, the more you look at them, the more you want or you don't want to, the more you live in a democracy where you can't ban criticism, the more you shut up. That's why I'm interested, Sir Janša: First time. Are you able to finally give up the attacks on the media, the judiciary, the opposition, on all your criticisms? When will you stop using the government's official Twitter account for personal accounting and the propaganda of your client and are you prepared to delete your Twitter profile? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u13	Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u14	Look, I know it's a few minutes too little time to explain to you that an individual can't be at war with the media, just like an individual can't be at war with a country, and it's some sort of snot that's stupid on its own, but I wrote one text on this subject and I advise you to read it. As far as social networks are concerned, the fact that two equalizers have appeared in history, making individuals more free, one is education and education, and the other is the Internet. It is said that the social network, as a result of this last phenomenon, allows an individual to defend himself, but does not allow him to wage a war against the media. So you need to take a look at things. As far as government Twitter is concerned. I have nothing to do with it. It's done by the same institutions as it used to. I manage my own, I defend myself, I also tolerate criticism. I don't think there's anyone in this room who's blocked on my Twitter account, but I do know that the Prime Minister you supported in the previous term has blocked me from my first review and I'm still blocked there. If I write something, you can write it back to me, there's a debate going on, otherwise in a limited circle, because these profiles don't reach reading or audiences or audiences like the classic media. So here there's still a power ratio far in favor of classical media, it's said to those you're here saying are not monopolies. So anyone who advocates censorship or calls on others to cut off some channels through which a person communicates in a free society is essentially against media freedom. I think it's very shocking that this comes from a party that declares itself left.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u15	Colleague Sukić, do you have a request for a supplement?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u16	Thank you, Chairman. I have to say what's expected. Mr. Janša, look, there's one thing I have to admit. And I really appreciate one of your qualities, and that's your predictability. You think you're driven away, bent on surpriseing your opponents day in and day out with your answers or your moves, but in fact it's the other way around. Your whole operation goes according to the same pattern, every time we know exactly how you're going to react, and I knew exactly how you're going to react to the diversion, which is the principle of defense is the best attack or attack itself you said you should defend yourself. [[…]] Please, you are the Prime Minister of this country, and you have somehow different communication from ordinary citizens and citizens. Of course, the questions I asked you, I didn't get an answer. But I am not the only one asking these questions; these questions are raised by the entire Slovenian public; yet you are the prime minister of this country and with your inability to engage in dialogue, with your inability to accept criticism you have shown once again your inadequacy to the role you represent, is the role of Prime Minister of the Government. So the questions that I asked you earlier, which of course you haven't really answered, I'm not going to repeat, because it actually doesn't make any sense. [[sign for the end of the debate]] You've confirmed that the matter is insurmountable, so I'm only asking you one question. Since you're an underage president of the government, think about it and tell us: When are you finally going to step down? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u17	Are you going to supplement the government's response?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u18	Perhaps when you are able to ask a question you will read about. I'll think about it at that point. But as for all these advices that are coming and that are being put to the ground, that someone knows that they can teach others and that only what they say in the media that he supports or on the profiles that he owns, see, that we have been doing this for 30 years, we have survived and we will survive in the future. This does not mean that at any time we will stop advocating freedom of expression, fundamental constitutional rights and freedom, but we will continue to defend and implement it. As far as media freedom is concerned, honourable Member, under all international criteria, on a key international scale measuring media freedom in Slovenia, this was the highest in our first term, when the party you say I am leading or I, which I am leading, is the exclusive of all that you have listed, consists of a mixed coalition, as we now have. You have never participated in any great or mixed coalition, so you are preaching theoretically to some culture of dialogue. During that term of office, Slovenia was on the ninth-place press freedom scale. We never got close to that time later. In the previous term, where you were part of the government coalition or made it possible, Slovenia held a great 32nd place. It's three times worse than it was during our term of office. Wait until the end of the term of office and then judge how the international public assesses media freedom in the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u19	Colleague Sukić, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u20	Of course I have a procedure, thank you very much. Apparently, Prime Minister Janša thinks he will return us to the most venerable ninth place on the international scale on media freedom. With our Twitter way of communicating with all those who disagree with his thinking, we know how he communicates. In response to my questions, Prime Minister Janez Janša has once again shown that he has not reached the position of Prime Minister, is simply unable to bear criticism, he is not prepared to answer the thorny questions that every politician has to ask, and he does not tolerate the mirrors in which he sees the ugly image of himself, when it is not my fault, it is my fault. So then he has a theory of how to defend himself and how the best defense is actually an attack. Unfortunately, these are not just your personal problems or his personal problems. All of us, two million citizens and citizens, unfortunately, have to live with such a Prime Minister, and the whole country is the hostage of some of his frustrations or the idea of how to defend itself from who I don't know. Attacks on the media, on the judiciary, intellectuals, in general, on anyone who thinks otherwise or with their head, are symptoms of the personal actions of Prime Minister Janez Janša. I began my question essentially benevolently – I warned him to put us in a society of half-dictator regimes, such as Hungarian, Russian, Turkish, and asked him three simple questions: For the first time, whether he will finally renounce attacks on institutions and journalists, but he is the prime minister. But he's also doing it as prime minister. Secondly, will he stop abuse of the government Twitter profile for his personal accounts and for the propaganda of his client. On the government profile, I'm sorry, this can't be happening. And the third time he's ready to sign off on Twitter. Of course he won't do that! But this would, however, begin to approach minimum democratic standards – what, respected Prime Minister, the vast majority of the Slovenian public thinks you are missing. At the very least, what we expect citizens and citizens from you as Prime Minister is to protect institutions and not account with ordinary citizens through social networks. Is it that hard? Two very simple matters, but once again it turned out — the thing is irreparable. Janez Janša is and will act to the detriment of the State, its democratic arrangements, its international reputation and, not least, to the detriment of all of us, so, of course, I am procedurally proposing that we discuss his resignation at a future meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Next question comes from colleague Masha Kociper, SAB.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u22	Dear Members and Members of the Council of Ministers, Honourable President of the Government! In the Sab party, we have repeatedly said that we are not and do not just want to be a pensioner, and the fact is, among pensioners, there are a large number of people who live very hard, some in poverty or even under the edge of poverty. The numbers on how individual pensioners spend their last days of their lives and the data on what is happening to them are truly tragic. I think we need to do everything as a society to help them. In fact, because many of them have spent their working hours, completely and in the same way that the law required. Therefore, the task of all of us is to help, in this area, this social group, where so many are affected, as much as we can – the best with systemic changes, but also with practical concrete measures. One such measure was the action of our President, Alenka Bratušek, at the time when she was Minister of Infrastructure and prepared a law on road transport, which, from 1 July, provides for free inter-national public passenger transport for pensioners and, in addition, pensioners for all over 65 years of age, disabled students and registered athletes, students and students. This free ticket will enable all these groups to become more mobile, to travel freely and safely between our countries, to maintain social contacts and to improve the quality of their lives. We have been very pleased and very much to say about us all sitting here, that this bill was supported by a large majority in this National Assembly, also supported by your party, the President of the Government. We hope that this measure will also be implemented with 1 July, so that all of us together, and in particular in the SAB party, we hope that this measure will actually be implemented as of 1 July. My question in this first part is therefore, above all: As President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, can you assure me that this action will be with 1. Did you actually enforce this year's 7th year as stipulated by the law? Second, in the light of the written question addressed to the Minister: Can you ensure that pensioners and others who are entitled to this measure also receive cards at some perfectly normal price, so that this card will not then constitute a cost which will mean that this transport is no longer free? So much for the first part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u23	The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u24	Thank you very much. As you said, the law enters into force on 1 July and currently all necessary sub-legislative acts are in interdepartmental coordination to enable the law to be implemented. The competent ministry shall ensure that everything is ready in time. As regards costs, it is a free ticket for these categories, so the cost of purchasing a card or this annual ticket will be only the cost of producing these documents, and this will be minimal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I have asked this question, inter alia, because we have heard from the answer given by the Minister of Infrastructure to the written question of our Member that the preparation for the implementation of this law due to the epidemic has been slowed to extend the deadlines for the production of cards. From informal sources, however, we have learned that a single card for this free transport should also cost up to €20. If I understand you correctly, I have just received assurances from you that this law will be enforced and that these cards will also be received by people for free or for the price of a card that we believe is about 2 euros per card. Please confirm that. If that is true, then I will not request any further discussion. Otherwise, I have another proposal for a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u26	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u27	Thank you very much. It is true that the coronary crisis or epidemic has halted the preparation of many, including these sub-legislative acts for the implementation of this law, and that these acts will be prepared in a timely manner in the last weeks and in accordance with the assurances of the competent ministry. As far as I am aware, the cost of this card is also expected to be around the price you mentioned, saying, about 2 euros, not 20 euros.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u28	Colleague Masha Kociper, procedurally? No, no, no. My colleague Janja Sluga, SMC, will ask the following question.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Slovenia is a wonderful country known in global markets as a green, active and healthy tourist destination whose visit brings an unforgettable experience. This is why tourism in our country represents an important and very successful economic sector with a high potential for growth and development. The total contribution of tourism in the Slovenian economy was €5.7 billion last year and almost 13% of gross domestic product. Jobs in tourism account for 12.8% of all jobs in the country, totalling more than 110 000 jobs. At the time of the epidemic and when the global market was completely halted, the tourism industry was certainly and is one of the most affected industries not only in Slovenia but also in the world. These days, however, Slovenian tourism is slowly getting back on its feet also due to the measures taken by the Government during the fight against the coronavirus, when anti-korona legislation was adopted. It is important to be aware that the recovery of the Slovenian economy will to a large extent also depend on the recovery of tourism activities and therefore our aim should be to further strengthen Slovenia's position as a safe, sustainable and responsible tourist destination today after the epidemic. The most important and most important measure is certainly the famous tourist vouchers that come into force in the coming days and will be received and benefited by all residents of the Republic of Slovenia. The measure is estimated to have a significant financial impact on the introduction of the tourist voucher and its multiplier effect is expected to contribute to the start-up of all tourism-related activities such as catering, trade, cultural and recreational activities, agriculture and the like. Given the importance of this measure and given the importance of tourism as an economic sector, which urgently needs to be helped so that our country will continue to be recognized as a green, active and healthy tourist destination, we ask you: How do you assess the effects of this measure on the tourism sector and the entire Slovenian economy? What is its added value? What are the expected multiplier effects of this measure? What can Slovenian tourism and employees hope from this measure? How will our government continue to respond to the needs for assistance to Slovenian tourism and related economic sectors?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u30	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u31	Thank you so much for asking. The effects of this, I will say, little special assistance to Slovenian tourism are actually multiple as you said. In particular, it is about maintaining capacity and partially filling those capacities at the time of transition. So at a time when we're trying to get back as fast as you can from some lock down. Slovenia had only partially stopped public life, but in tourism it was practically perfect. And this transition is demanding. In fact, directly from tourism in Slovenia, there are 58 000, almost 60 000 jobs, indirectly some 10 000 more. This is an extremely important industry that has contributed to our gross domestic product over the last few years on average more than 10%. In fact, the government had two strategic aid options. One is to extend directly for tourism only the waiting period, the reduced working time and some other measures from the first two coronapackets only for this sector, I do not know, by the end of the year or by the end of the recovery or in some way the same amount of money to be allocated to the population in the form of tourist vouchers. These vouchers are then used for some basic activity that generates additional value. We have decided on this form, and I must say that many of my colleagues from other European countries have called and were interested in this way and in congratulating innovation, where there are multiple effects. We are also counting on this way to preserve significantly more tourist capacity of the living than simply by subsidising waiting for work, because then nothing happens and things wrap up at home. At least in the second part of the summer tourist season, however, we expect a significantly larger visit from foreign guests, since Slovenia was essentially the first European country to announce the end of the epidemic. On the weekend of 14 and 15 May, there were about 24 thousand positive entries about Slovenia in the world media. A few days ago, the leading British newspaper published a series of demand for tourist destinations in Europe and Slovenia was in the first place, especially because we were considered a safe destination where we kept our tourist facilities. It must be said, however, that the accommodation capacity in Slovenia is significantly greater than what these vouchers provide. Only through this measure will we not save tourism, but we will allow these capacities, which exist or exist in last year and many have already wondered whether they would reduce or even close their activities, maintain and thus enable the flow of new resources through foreign tourists who will come if we keep Slovenia safe if we are able to contain these individual infections that are coming. At present, we have two such mini-lights in Jesenica and Nova Gorica, which are controlled by competent authorities, which means that this is a key issue. So if we hit this point, the vouchers won't help us much either, it's a secondary thing, a good positive reaction with long-term effects. The key is to keep Slovenia safe, healthy, without outbreaks that we will not be able to control. And in this case, we expect that the tourism industry will also be fully picked up much earlier than the forecasts were a month ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Comrade Servant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Maybe there's only one comment or question below. Do we share the view that, in fact, the time may have come when citizens and citizens will also explore their homeland to the extent that we can promise that in the coming years more Slovenians will also be allowed home?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u35	I'd just comment on that, in fact, by confirmation or by consent. I was in Bovec one day last weekend and met quite a few Slovenian families there. Most admitted that they had already been across the oceans on leave, but not in Bovec. I think that this measure will also help us to become better acquainted with the beauty of our country and that our tourist agencies will also find that it is as profitable, as profitable to market domestic destinations as any overseas destination.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u36	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 17th meeting of the National Assembly. Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Restoršek will first answer the question of the acquisition of protective equipment during the covid-19 epidemic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u37	Dear Member, Mr Jože Lenart, Honourable National Assembly, Honourable President of the National Assembly! The acquisitions, procedures and quality of protective equipment have recently been much said, written, published and also researched. Although I think I have already answered all the questions, I see that we are still going around and repeating the same content. The difference is between the situation and the pressures at the time of the outbreak, when the situation was truly extraordinary, and today, when we successfully controlled this epidemic. We instilled an epidemic and made sure that the protective equipment was sufficient and we never had a situation where we didn't have a place to take it from. Of course, the view in the middle of the storm and from a distance on the safe side is very different. All the work so far has been comprehensively covered in a comprehensive report. This is a joint government report and not just a report from our ministry, which has already been discussed and adopted in the National Assembly. I cannot say that there has been a high degree of non-transparency when compared with prices, as the institution has also published all contracts on our request, including prices, and the list of contracts and data has been updated weekly. And it's from this published data that you can draw information about the prices you're talking about. The price comparison was made according to the quantities ordered at the cut-off date of the Government's report, i.e. on the basis of data on the purchase of protective equipment from 14 March to 25 April 2020. It is understandable that these data are changing due to the dynamics of contract conclusion and implementation. It is true, however, that there has been a VAT error in comparison, as we have already explained in the National Assembly in its consideration of the report. In the table, there was an unintended error due to the failure to comply with VAT payments in the procurement of the current government. If the current government's price of protective equipment is added to the VAT price of FFP masks and fans purchased by the current government, they still deviate from the previous government's prices. For the FFP masks of the previous government, 4.64 euros per piece, published in report 3.40, for the current government, 4,14 euros was correct. At the time of the previous government, however, €49 000 154 per piece, with the current government 33 000 880 or VAT 41,333 euros per piece. However, I can provide more recent information on the average price of FFP-2 masks delivered on 28 May. On this day, 2.5 million pieces of FFP-2 mask were delivered at an average price of 3.61 euros without VAT or 4,40 euros, which is still less than in the previous government. All goods are delivered and taken over in Slovenia. In this regard, I would also like to add that, due to the circumstances of the worst epidemic, the Department of Freight Reserves has been placed in a position to buy everything that was available on the market or that could be obtained or actually delivered. This was also due to insufficiently ordered protective equipment before 14 March when it was not yet competent for the central procurement of the protective equipment of the Department of Freight Reserves. Let me add that the procurement and supply procedures are already under review by the Court of Auditors and the KPK. I would like all the procedures to be carried out as soon as possible, so that we can continue to work towards improving and stabilising the business environment for all business entities taken over in the epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u38	Comrade Lenart, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Zdravko Restoršek, this scheme, infographic, which is still on the portal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is probably familiar to you. You yourself said that you admitted a VAT error and also an average price that you partially fixed for fans. I'm asking: Why is this infographic still on the portal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and is still deceiving if it has already been recognised? And secondly, I would like your answer as a credible entrepreneur. Look, you compared 100,000 masks in three orders, which means only 0.6% to the total amount of fifteen million 200 thousand masks you used in the report. I'm asking you: What do margins mean for you as a credible entrepreneur, for you to use at such different quantities, and for the price of transport and other fixed costs if they were converted into a unit? These are terrible differences. We both come from entrepreneurship, and we know. As evidence, however, I would like to present to you on page 41 of your report, you have published a medical report of 49 000, which is at least approximately comparable to the quantities of the government of Marjan Šarc. Here you specify the price of 6.28 or $7.47. Please, as a credible entrepreneur, we are now being accompanied by our colleagues from the economy to tell you what you think about this. That would be a fair comparison if we took that into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u40	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u41	Mr Member, thank you for the additional question. We'll make sure the infographics don't go away like you said. We do not answer to our ministry directly for it, and we will make sure that the matter is consistent with what we have stated in the correction. When we're talking about quantity comparisons, of course, in normal situations it's necessary to give exactly what you're saying. If you buy one unit or one million units, this is definitely a huge difference in the national area, but it has to be corrected and it has to be said that we are not talking here just about quantities in this case, but we are also talking about the time in which we purchased this matter. If we want to do this comparison, we get in trouble in a way that comes from what I said we were at that time, this is the 13 March-10 period. April, bought everything that could be obtained and could be delivered to Slovenia, regardless of the price. This was also the topic of my interpretation, where we handled this matter more precisely. Once again, if you want an answer from me, you're right under normal circumstances. In the circumstances in which we did this, this is definitely not true, because we were under pressure that for the needs of the health system we had to buy everything that someone was able to bring and deliver to us at the prices set by suppliers, not like we who were buyers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u42	Comrade Lenart, you have the floor for procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u43	Thank you very much for complementing the answer. The point is, we can't work in public because we deceive and are incomparable. Nevertheless, I propose a general debate in view of the additional appearance of non-transparent supplies at this time, and this matter is still up to date, so I propose a general debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Restovalšek will also answer the question of colleague Lidija Dijak Mirnik regarding the opening of fitness centres and the performance of various exercises.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u45	Your Honor, Mr President, I am giving up this answer because the matter is already over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u46	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the question of Members and Members. The word is given by colleague Robert Pavšič, who will raise the question to Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar and Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u47	Thank you very much, and thank you very much. Otherwise, I'll probably hear that we're back in a circle, but there's always new information coming out. Let's say that in mid-April, 200 million masks were stuck at customs due to market inspections and Fursa. But we're only going to focus on one of those jobs that's been a little bit more reflective in the last few days. At the end of May, the Department of Stocks purchased 200 million hygiene fats, which are not suitable for the protection of health or other infections of exposed workers. According to publicly available information, the State has actually helped Hmezad – Tmt, who signed the contract in early April, at the peak of the epidemic, at prices that are significantly higher than today. These hygienic masks, which are not suitable for protection but only for general use, have stuck to customs between these 200 million masks because of a misdeclaration. So, not because of the agency's activity, but because of the importer's error. Minister Gantar, I ask you: What are the current stocks of hygiene masks in Slovenia, hygiene questions, not protective? Do we even need that amount, say 200 million masks? Who are these hygiene masks intended for, or who can use, and what is their level of protection? And I'm asking you, Minister Restoring. How could the State acquire so much of these masks at extremely high prices? I am particularly interested in the dynamics of doing business with Hmezad – Tmt at EUR 11 million. This is a far-reaching supply of masks since the outbreak. The quantity exceeds the number of masks that came into the country by the beginning of May. In addition, you carried out the transaction at a time when other verified tenderers were refused to supply masks at the institution. The transaction was carried out between 27th and 29. May, then, only a few days before the institution lost jurisdiction to purchase state security equipment on the basis of the Government's decision. I am particularly interested in the explanation: Why did you make purchases with a company with which the institution had a negative experience a few weeks ago? Unofficially, it is those masks that have been unsuccessfully tried before this country to sell GenEplanet. I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u48	Mr. Minister Restoration, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u49	Dear Member, Mr Robert Pavšić, honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members! Thank you for asking. Despite the fact that on Thursday at the marathon session here in this assembly we have thoroughly shaken all the acquisitions of protective equipment, including this subject, I will try to respond briefly and clearly. All the equipment we have supplied in Slovenia is useful and professionally inspected. This is also confirmed by all the records of the inspection committee of the House of Bureau Veritas, which carried out control of the quality and quantity of protective equipment delivered at the time of takeover. This house also has all the powers to refuse all inadequate equipment. In some cases – Acron, SLA marketing – the roof house also found that the protective equipment was supplied without a certificate, but the goods received were marked as compatible on the basis of a visual inspection. It is important to know, however, that different criteria apply to different types of masks. One is the hygiene masks used for the general population and the other is the masks used by healthcare professionals – FFP-2, FFP-3. No certificates are required for hygiene masks, but in our case, a technical fitness check was carried out for all masks. Otherwise, it is with FFP-2 and FFP-3 masks and fans because it is products used for health purposes and it is necessary and required to demonstrate their technical suitability with certificates. So all the equipment we supplied went through a fitness test and all the equipment that has to have the appropriate certificates also has them. This can be checked at any time and anyone else's, if the official documents don't mean enough to you. Everything we bought was in line with professional standards. The equipment that is in storage today will be used as soon as possible. It is important that we provided the necessary equipment in time for the epidemic, and it is also important that we are better prepared today for the second wave of the epidemic than we were at the end of February. If we were to ask the exact question of how many of these equipment we have, I could answer that question today. So I will provide you with this information, even though I have not heard the exact number you mentioned that we have stock. If there were more equipment waiting for us in the warehouses, even though this professional quality would be worse, we would be spared a lot of disappointment. And now, briefly, the contract for the supply of 22 million protective masks for general use, so not for the medicine you talked about, at least that's what I think. The contract with Hmezad was concluded at the peak of the March epidemic. Once again, the contract was concluded in March, not on the date you just mentioned. At the time, the need for large quantities of common protection masks for the population was extremely high, and the decision of the State to purchase more masks was still well founded. We bought masks at a price that was then acceptable on the market. The contract was concluded by the previous management of the Department of Freight Reserves. And if you want to suggest that I have worked for it myself, I need to correct you once again — with this contract, including all others, I have not dealt with it myself, but it is true that Hmezad is a long-standing supplier of the Department of Commerce Reserves. The contract was dealt with by those who are now trying to attribute this treaty to me and my influence for an unknown reason. This contract made a mistake as the contract provided that the mask should also have a special certificate for general use. Since this is not the case, and this has also confirmed an appropriate legal opinion, the current management of the supplier institution has negotiated, achieved a reduction in the price for a single mask. The final cost of this deal has therefore been reduced by the current leadership and saved the country a good EUR 800,000, prior to 22.3 million, now 11.5 million for these masks. The fact that the State could withdraw from this contract due to a contract error is not true. This has been established by an appropriate legal service, and since we live in a legal state, it must mean something. The masks we bought under this contract, therefore, represent today’s precious supply of ordinary protective masks. We haven't bought anything we don't need, but something that will potentially change our chances of preventing the spread of infections in a possible second wave of epidemics. And if that's a problem for anyone, then that's the wrong world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u50	Comrade Pavšič, you have the floor to request.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u51	Besides, I asked Minister Gantar a few questions. I've never talked about whether that's enough or not. That's what I was trying to ask your colleague, and he didn't come up with a word. And I didn't talk about the FFP-2 masks, FFP-3 masks, or pre-nuptials, and I didn't say a word about it. All I'm asking today is about hygiene masks, because I think we all know what protective masks are and what hygiene masks are. It is obvious that, no matter how you try to wash yourself, there are still questionable purchases, since Hmezad-TMT with a protective retraining, i.e. medical equipment in hygiene, has undergone inspection pharmaceutical control. This is why the product was reviewed by the market inspection, not by an inspection which identifies health adequacy. That is why we cannot, because it was a requalification, no one can determine whether these masks are actually effective. So, Minister Restoring, how do you justify another in a series of questionable purchases, again at a high price? That's not the case. In general, given that the company has supplied inadequate masks on its own account. The contract is signed by two of them and if both of them have signed the wrong contract, both of them will have consequences. Why didn't you break the contract? You're the only one who knows that. You paid these masks 52 cents, which is five times the price on the market today. It's a legal opinion. The legal opinion is that a hundred lawyers, one hundred legal opinions, but we know who can only give a final judgment in this country, what is right and what is wrong with law. And not to twist my words, I'm only interested in these masks, just this business and again a huge price difference, five times.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u52	Comrade Pashov, would you like me to give the floor to Minister Gantar?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Yeah, you'll tell.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u54	Your Honor, I have answered your question. The transaction was concluded earlier with this company, under the previous management of the supplies reserves. And if anyone is deceiving, you're the only one who's fooling around in this area, you've got bad intelligence on this business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u55	Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u56	Thank you very much, President. Mr Member, thank you for the question. Messengers and Members! Of course, there are, as you can see, two types of masks for medical use that are thoroughly certified, and we know what certificates are needed and why they are used, and another species that is widely used in everyday life. Surely, if in the beginning they had the option of purchasing only a mask for medical purposes, this would be justified in view of the risk of infection. On the other hand, we know that the possibility of procurement has been severely limited and that the hygiene mask can also reduce the effectiveness of the protection against transmission, especially diseases with drop-in infection, even one quarter, and even if one half, it is better to use this than nothing. As I understood at the outset, and even when we faced problems, it was then foreseen, and doctors also advocated that anything was better than nothing. Of course, I hope – I do not know the supply of hygiene masks, as it is now, that even if the stock is, it is not material that falls or falls, even if it is in reserves. Above all, I wish we didn't need it in the future the way it was this time. However, the fact is that in various shops, public transport and similar, where we did not have adequate protective equipment at our disposal, these masks are useful. They have been reviewed, at least by the medical staff of the UKC involved in these acquisitions, those who have been procured, including hygiene. They were marked as suitable for use or better than if they did not have anything at a given time.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u57	Comrade Pavšič, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Well, it's very interesting how everything ends up in the phrase “something better than nothing”. When situations are as they were, this is allowed for a while, and today we could take a breath and think a little bit more about what to get rid of, but obviously we will be deceiving ourselves. Of course, Minister, the leadership has changed, but the minister remains the same, and the office has been under the influence of your ministry not only for the last two months, but for quite some time now. And that doesn't wash anyone's responsibility again. No one claims in advance that anything went wrong, but let me make it clear, let me explain, but not by one legal opinion, that we are living in a state of law. The rule of law provides more powers than the legal opinion of your legal service. The stoves have decentralized their purchases. The original method of purchasing protective and medical equipment with effect from 1 June was again established. If this was so bad earlier, I don't know why you didn't then draw up a decision and take over such purchases in the future to be really centralised, transparent. What the Court of Auditors expects from this country. No, you went back the way you did, and that also says something — that you are not consistent in your decisions. Always new data, always new so-called "affairs" so you won't say we're condemning you again. This means that we will be discussing these matters for a long time and more, so I propose that a public debate be held on this. However, because I know that in this coalition there is a possibility that we should discuss this matter as we do, I expect that we will meet with any other committee and examine this matter a little bit more precisely, because it is indeed the greatest purchase of hygiene masks. This isn't about medical equipment. This is about hygiene.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 June, in the framework of the votes. The next question is the question put by my fellow Member, Samo Bevk, who will put it to the Minister for Environment and Space Mags. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Due to long-standing mining, the area directly above the mercury mine in Idrija must be protected and the city of Idrija must be protected from the consequences of the sitting and other consequences arising from long-standing mining and reflected in the mining damage and the degraded environment in the affected mine area. In view of the past exploitation of mines in closed mines, an adequate urban environment must be maintained before the other consequences of past mining, which are reflected, as it is said, in the mining damage, the degraded environment and also in the health condition of former miners. When I asked Minister Zdravko Počvalska about the rehabilitation of mining damage last year, the Minister replied to me that MGRT no longer directly financed the mining damage because the entity that would cause the damage to the mine as a company had ceased to do so directly. The last mining damage was paid in 2014 at EUR 245,000, and in 2015 the country did not contribute a single cent to the maintenance of the unconsolidated part of the mine, except for other tasks arising from the law on the prevention of the consequences of mining in the Idrija mine. On 17 May 2017, the destruction of the mercury mine as a company was carried out. Minister for Environment and Space Mag. So I'm asking Andre Visiak: What can the government and the ministry do to repair the mining damage and degraded environment in Idrija? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u61	Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u62	Thank you very much, honourable Member for your question. After all, we have sat in the parliamentary rations many times, and unfortunately it is true that you are asking Members of Parliament questions I think for decades in the same tone. And I'm afraid I won't be able to give you a different answer than all the governments have so far submitted to your questions. I am aware, however, that in the future, this issue, which is not only characteristic of Idria, will have to be addressed more appropriately for a number of other places, which are linked not only to mining, but also to these negative burdens of industry, when we are talking about ending these burdens and then, as a result, we are looking at environmental damage. In the area of mercury mines in Idrija, the Ministry of the Environment shall, within its competences, carry out environmental monitoring every three years under the Directive on the management of waste from mining and other extractive activities. This enables monitoring in sediments, soils, air, water and biospheres. I must say that monitoring still shows significant consequences of mining and there are still old burdens on the environment. As a special source of mercury for the environment, the impoverished ores that are still present there remain. We have been monitoring this for years and the values of mercury in the Idrian sediments fluctuate strongly and depend not only on the distance from the main source, but also on other hydrological phenomena. The data show that the content has not decreased over the past 25 years, but that it fluctuates by more than twice in terms of critical value. It is encouraging, however, that the mercury content in the water samples in the affected mine area does not exceed the lower limit of determination for mercury using the analysis used and therefore we find that the values of mercury in the water are not significantly increased. As I say, the ILO monitors the environment – soil, water, sediments in accordance with the Directive for all degraded areas in the Republic of Slovenia. It is true, however, that for the other measures that you have mentioned, in particular those consequences of mining, in terms of possession, in the sense of other active policies, this does not fall within our competence and we do not. That's why the Minister of Economy, who's in charge of mining, told you that they don't do that either. I believe that even under the Coalition Treaty it will be necessary to determine how, in the future, in this case and in other cases, the result of mining in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Comrade Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u64	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Despite the fact that the mine is no longer an economic operator, the mine with its infrastructure is still an integral part of the Idrija area and has a negative impact on the environment. The centre for the management of the heritage of mercury is monitoring and, at the time of re-engineering 2018, shows new phenomena of crawling, slips, warming, hydrological problems and other phenomena, some of which are mentioned by you, which endanger people and infrastructure. In Idrija, about 6% of all the world's mercury stocks are still in existence. About 37 tons of mercury was released into the environment during the operation of the mine and is also burdensome. There is also a problem with the living silver of burdened land, construction waste in actions in the degraded area, as we do not have an official landfill in Slovenia for waste loaded with mercury. It is 490 thousand cubic metres of combustible remains and heifers loaded with mercury, which is about 300 thousand square metres or 15% of the walled surfaces in some parts of Idria and Lower Idria. Dear Minister, after a few years, I think it is time for the Government, the competent Ministry of Environment and Space and the Municipality of Idrija to find a common solution to this burning environmental problem. That's why I'm interested in your opinion, Mr. Minister: Are you prepared to listen to the local community and find a suitable solution? I think you went in a positive direction in the first part of the answer, so thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u65	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The honourable Member, as former mayor, and also several times elected councilor of the municipal council, I am still examining the opinion of local communities, and I am certainly ready to talk to representatives of local communities and seek solutions. The beginning of this supplementary question is whether the Government and the competent ministry, together with the local communities of the Ministry of Environment and Space, are not the competent ministries for these matters mentioned for the rehabilitation of degraded areas, but we are willing to cooperate and seek an appropriate solution with the other departments and with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. [[…]] Similarly, it appears in the Celje Cauldron, which is a result of industrial exploitation, similar to where, Ravne in Koroškem, Montenegro in Koroškem and so on. We are aware of these problems, and we have committed ourselves in the coalition treaty to actively solving them. My answer is yes, yes, yes, yes. This is where we need to look and find solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u67	The following is a question for the Member's question, Comrade Josef Lenart, who will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Nice greetings to all present guests, ministers! Dear Mr. Minister of Infrastructure, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec! National road R1-229, section 1286 Rogoznica–Ptuj–Senarska is one of the most dangerous roads in Styria. It is especially transport and dangerous in part from the beginning or from the house number Slovenskogorška cesta 18, it is somewhere from kilometre 0 to kilometre 1 + 999 or at the house number Nova va 117 Ptuj. The section I mentioned is mostly completely unsecured for pedestrians, so there are no crossings, there are not enough bus stops for children, and there are also dangerous for bikers. But it is also, as it is said, the school path of the students of the Primary School of the Human Garden of Ptuj. I believe that you are aware of the problem both in the ministry and in the DRSI, because it has already been in the budget and in the construction programmes several times. On the other hand, it is incomprehensible for us citizens, and especially for the inhabitants of Rogoznica and the Municipality of Ptuj, that the project has been appearing since 2007 in order to do so, but it is still not finished as it should be. In the meantime, one part of the road in the middle of the mentioned route was arranged about 500 metres in length with a two-way sidewalk and a cycling track ten years ago. In recent times only signs of speed limitation have been further regulated, some school travel labels, and unsecured bus stops have also been identified. But these are only half-solutions. The entire section became somewhat more dangerous with the partial arrangement of these 500 meters, as the cycling track breaks down, then it starts again over these 500 meters and so on. The road is very busy. On the portal Portal.si, on the day of asking this question, I actually realized that it went through 444 vehicles in one hour, which would then be in 24 hours about 10,000. In particular, this road is paved, clogged, when allowed, because foreigners are actually avoiding it in some way so that they do not take the highway. That's why I'm asking you: When will the reconstruction of this dangerous road section begin? Are the infrastructure resources provided to the Republic of Slovenia’s Infrastructure Directorate in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to address the problem, or should they be provided through a budget rebalancing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u69	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u70	Thank you very much to the Member for the question raised. In the stage of preparing my answer to your question, I did a thorough survey on this road at DRSI. In fact, this part of Nova Vas, or some reconstructions are carried out on major sections of the entire road, some works, and this part has been carried out for more than 10 years. The system itself covers the restoration of the vehicle by construction of sidewalks, drainage arrangements, the restoration of the entire municipal infrastructure. As far as the municipality of Ptuj is concerned, according to our information, it obtained all the project documentation for the arrangement of this road Ptuj-Rogoznica 11 years ago. So the construction of the sidewalk through the village of Nova Vas in the estimated length of a thousand 700 meters and the implementation of the circular intersection in Rogoznica. The co-financing agreement was also signed here. This first stage was carried out in 2010. It's been standing ever since. With regard to the work plan, we need funds with a rebalance next year. As far as overcoating is concerned, these are foreseen, I am merely speaking overcoats of almost a million euros, for parts of Rogoznica-Senarska there are overlays in three parts, one part 700 meters long, the other part 480 meters and then a thousand 256 meters. It is said that overcoats are envisaged, and for what else in this section, especially in the New Village, this will have to be put into the budget balance and then a serious reconstruction may begin on this part, which is necessary. As far as other sections of this section are concerned when you ask a question on this road, the DRSI runs a project of reconstruction of the bridge over the Pesnica in Senarska, located on the state road Rogoznica–Senarska. The project also provides for reconstruction of the existing bridge. DRSI started with parts in November 2019 and the construction process was already found to be in worse shape than originally envisaged. As a result of these findings, the Directorate has taken the initiative to carry out additional investigations and to supplement project solutions. Since the additions are still in progress, it is not yet possible to predict the full value, but at the same time with the addition of project solutions, procedures are also under way to establish temporary traffic arrangements across the steel assembly bridge, which will be located at the appropriate location at the existing facility. The traffic will be variablely one-way across the temporary bridge. The DRSI shall endeavour to prepare the documentation immediately, as soon as possible, so that the initial construction and renewal of this bridge may continue. Since time still allows me, I would also like to point out the arrangements of Rogoznica-Senarska-Crist-Crowds. The project documentation was reviewed there, which was produced a long time ago in 2008. The project documentation should now be updated as a result of the amendment of the various technical regulations and the scope of the amendment is based on the review. In addition to the amendment of the documentation projects, a document of the construction documentation for the deviation of the public road in this part should be drawn up. [[Incomprehensible]] This was not produced in 2008 and we must now produce it. About the Duplek project and the Janezovski summit. A call for the amendment of the existing project documentation, which was produced in 2011, was published here in 2019. The invitation to tender was opened by the company that produced the basic project documentation, the deadline was October 2019, but – pay attention! Just before the expiry of the deadline, the selected undertaking withdrew from the contract itself. The DRSI then signed a contract and reopened the invitation to tender, which was published in May 2020. And it is now under way, the review of the tenders has arrived, and immediately after the contract with the designer has been concluded, it will also join the drafting of the project documentation. The development of the project documentation and the review of the project is envisaged in 2020. Then you can go on and on about cycling connections.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u71	Comrade Lenart, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u72	Mr. Secretary, thank you so much for those answers. I was expecting some of this, and there's something new about me. I have already addressed the written question to the Minister of the previous Government in January 2020. She also spoke of this novelty as necessary. The city congregation of Ptuj, however, gave me the answer that they had done what was necessary. I will now say that it has been promised by the Slovenian Infrastructure Directorate that this will continue in 2020 and 2021. As you have already said, this item has been withdrawn from the budget of the previous government, so that we will continue to do so. As to what this road looks like, I was able to take some pictures at the time. Today, before I went to Ljubljana, I repeated the matter, without sidewalks, and then again the sidewalk cycling track, then somewhere the cycling track even ends in a safety rail fence – this nonsense was when it was made. Then maybe I'd like to touch just the fact that I'm glad you went to the Ministry. But I might also ask if you would be willing to come and take a look at this matter and its surroundings. The Krajina do not have any hope of sending their children and schoolchildren on foot to the city. One part is the city, and then the settlement. So I'd like to invite you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u74	Thank you very much. About the set. This item is and is expected to be slightly less than a million euros for overlays. However, this item will need to be opened in order to add additional resources so that it can be repaired and restored in an integrated manner in 2021, so that it can also be arranged for pedestrians and also for safety. As for the visit, you know I go to the field several times a week. We were in Ormož last week, for example, but there was a problem with a fast road that was already dragging. And then the Halo mayors, the Haloz area is also a problem with road infrastructure. I stress that this part of Slovenia has been very neglected for decades as regards the regulation of road infrastructure. Before summer, I'll be with Director DRSI Mrs. Herga to see you. We will agree on an invitation, we will attend a meeting with you in the coming weeks, the other mayors can come along and we can open a discussion on what needs to be arranged. But everything depends on the financial resources, and that's where it all starts and ends. We at the Ministry want to build and work as hard as possible. I believe, however, that we will be given sufficient strength and sufficient consensus to obtain financial resources for road renewals and thus ensure the security of citizens and citizens. That this government will be, I believe that we will do so and get enough financial resources. I'll see you in your quarters in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The next question is the question put by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, who will be asked by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Anjet Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u76	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everyone. Mr. Secretary! Sometime after last winter and in the first half of this year, the international public is not more excited by Benjamin Netanyahu's pre-election promise to annex a good part of the occupied territories primarily on the West Bank if the new Israeli government is established. Well, this has now become, if I may put it this way, a little bit more meat in some kind of coalition commitment that was made in the new government in Israel to actually do so. In fact, some intention was signed that Israel would unilaterally annex these illegal settlements on the west bank. It is clear that this is also related to the so-called agreement of the century, as called by the US administration, this plan of Peace for Prosperity, which envisions a rather unilateral division of territories, what is left between the Palestinians and Israel and the de facto means the end of the two countries' solution, because it is going in a completely different direction. I am interested, given that illegal settlements are recognized under international law as a war crime – they are a violation of the Geneva Conventions, and especially in the light of recent responses by representatives of the European Union, I am talking about Joseph Borrell, who announced in the first half of 2020 that discussions will take place on this issue and 18. 5. Also, very diplomatically, he expressed his dissatisfaction when he congratulated the new Israeli government, followed by another, I will say, lobbying on a visit to Israel by German Foreign Minister Heik Mass and by Luxembourg Foreign Minister Asselborn, who said that, in the event of an annexation, the recognition of Palestine is an inevitable fact that the European Union, as a whole, would have to do otherwise lose all credibility in the international public. You can also add to this calls by the Palestinian authorities and the Palestinian people not to allow this unilateral annexation. In view of the position taken so far by the Republic of Slovenia on this issue, the recognition of Palestine, or the resolution of the Middle East question with two separate countries, and aware that in the event of such an annexation, violence can also be stepped up in this area, particularly by Jordan, I am interested in: What is the position of the Republic of Slovenia on this issue, in particular to annexation? Are the external ministers of the European Union holding discussions on this issue? Will Slovenia find a group of countries with which to recognise Palestine's independence at that time?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u77	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u78	Thank you very much, President. Dear Member, thank you for asking. The Republic of Slovenia continues to support all efforts to resolve the dispute peacefully and to revive the peace process, which is based on the rule of two countries, that is, on the principle of two countries. In this regard, we have repeatedly called for the strengthening of the European Union's dialogue with both key actors, Israel and Palestine, as well as the United States of America and the relevant Arab countries, which have influence and power in this part of the world, together with the remaining members of the so-called Quartet, with Russia and the United Nations, in particular with a view to achieving lasting peace in this part of the world and the stability of the Middle East. Slovenia remains an ally of two countries. We also continue to support diplomatic activities and calls for the avoidance of unilateral acts and, as a representative, advocate of the rule of law to respect international law. Slovenia has been in close contact with other partners, and I have repeatedly pointed out the importance of a single response and the active role of the European Union. A unilateral annexation would constitute a violation of international law and a threat to a world order based on previously agreed rules. Unilateral activities or unilateral annexation would also have a negative impact on the security and stability of this region and beyond. For this reason, Slovenia will continue, in the context of the European Union, to call for the non-realisation of what you are pointing out in your parliamentary question. This position was also highlighted by Slovenia in the debate at the Foreign Affairs Council at the virtual meeting of foreign ministers 15. 5. 2020, where I called for the unity and credibility of the European Union, for the development of constructive bilateral relations between the European Union and the Israeli Government, and also for the promotion of a renewed peace process based on the principle of two countries. The international public is very active in this area. Earlier, you yourself mentioned a visit by the German Foreign Minister, where the word was also about this issue. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also closely monitoring developments in Israel and the surrounding area. Let me just say that last week, the political director of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs spoke to the representative of the Israeli Foreign Ministry, and in this regard we are committed to the continuation of the peace process and the search for solutions that both sides will agree on.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u79	Comrade Vatovec, you have the floor to request.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u80	In some other circumstances, I have heard this answer more than I have listened mainly to by Minister Erjavac in the previous government, but now the situation is significantly different. You are stressing bilateral dialogue and involvement in a peaceful solution to the problem, but Israel is acting quite decisively at this point. We could have understood this as some kind of gathering of political points by Netanyahu during the pre-election campaign, but when this becomes some kind of alliance between the two coalition parties, then this is significantly more serious. I think that Mr Asselborn is even calling for sanctions on Israel on the part of the European Union and for a stronger opposition to this plan. It is certain that a peaceful solution to this issue is probably in everyone's interest, but in fact it is Israel that is working most to undermine this peaceful solution with Trump's administration or with this plan, as proposed, at the head. Here I am particularly interested in Plan B. One of these rhetorics is that we have to sit at the common table, which, of course, I agree with. But what if you don't? What will happen if this annexation happens, regardless of the fact that it is contrary to international law? Does Slovenia intend to maintain an active role here, and is it possible to support the imposition of sanctions against Israel and the common recognition at European Union level of independent and independent Palestine?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u81	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u82	Thank you, President. As far as relations with Israel and the question of the peace process are concerned, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is leading its activities as in the past, but with a certain degree of intensity precisely due to the entry in the coalition contract, as previously mentioned. As I have said, there has also been a debate in this regard in the Foreign Affairs Council, where a statement by the High Representative of Mr Borrell regarding the establishment of a new government in Israel has been communicated or published after this meeting. Among other things, this statement states, quote: “International law is the fundamental pillar of an international order based on rules. In this regard, the European Union and its Member States note that they will not recognise any changes at the 1967 borders unless these changes are agreed between the Israelis and the Palestinians. A solution with two countries and Jerusalem, as the capital of both countries, is the only way to ensure sustainable peace and stability in the region. In this regard, we are following with great concern the provision to be submitted by the Israeli Cabinet for approval, the annexation of parts of the occupied Palestinian territories, as stated by the Prime Minister at the presentation of his Government to the Knesset on 17 May and as provided for in the Coalition Treaty. We call on Israel to refrain from any unilateral decision that would lead to the annexation of any occupied Palestinian territory and as such would be contrary to international law.” Our position remains identical that the European Union must speak with one voice here and, certainly, if there were any changes to the current situation, the Foreign Affairs Council, an extraordinary world, would be convened and would also be discussed in the Foreign Affairs Council. Slovenia would represent the position here, as it has always been with regard to unilateral measures, especially in such sensitive areas as the Middle East. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u83	Comrade Vatovec? No, no, no. The next is to ask a question from a fellow magician. Andrej Reich, who will question the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Minister, as you know, covid-19 has done a good job in our lives. The time after the crisis, this is the time ahead of us, brings many uncertainties, so it is still important to continue investing in infrastructure. Maribor is precisely due to extensive investment in infrastructure a city that is growing and developing. Thus we are witnessing the reconstruction of the railway line between Šentilje, Maribor, Prague, Celje and the Wall Bridge, the railway station in Maribor is being rebuilt, the construction of the Limbučka oblasta as well as the outskirts in Slovenska Bistrica, the construction of many cycling routes is being built, and so is the right. As a Mariborian, I am interested in the continuation of the construction of a southern or western bypass, but it has two names. This is of particular interest to me in the light of the fact that a reserve list of intervention investments appears in accordance with this law, which was last adopted. In this light, I would like to point out that we have a valid state budget in which all investments are listed and funded. And in this light, I'm curious: Why is a specific list created for investments for which funds are provided? Does this mean that the investments for which the funds have already been approved are not on this list that their implementation has somehow been suspended? In this light, I would like to touch on two other investments that are not directly related to your ministry, we are talking about the construction of a Maribor library and a health station in Tezne. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u85	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u86	Thank you. Yes, of course, the covid intervened well in the entire situation, in the whole story. As far as the financial means are concerned, at the beginning of this mandate, I think that the tenth day of our mandate was the day we put some €90 million in this common bag, because we could have done so in order to resolve the situation elsewhere. As far as the investment plan is concerned, the budget is valid, and the budget balance is being drawn up, because also because of the co-vide, things have changed a lot, but also because of other things. Also because of the importance of investment, I believe that we will strengthen this investment flow. The government is aware of this and we have also adopted an intervention law whose annex will also be called strategically important investments. However, I will not debate this, because nothing has yet been definitively adopted, so that is why for the next time. However, Maribor and the Styria region are certainly not exempt, in no way exempt, part of the strategy, they are part of the strategy, they are part of the importance, in particular the southern Maribor Obligatory Road. Here the construction project is foreseen in three stages. The first stage takes place from Strelika to Kardeljevo. At this first stage from Strelicka to Kardeleva, there was no hesitation that this is among the priorities, absolutely this is a priority that we urgently need. An investment plan has also been developed and approved, and the acquisition of land and the purchase of buildings are under way. It is estimated that in 2020 all the land required could be obtained and could then be applied for a building permit. The call for construction works for the first stage could be published in the year ahead. Here I will give once again one opportunity to hold a parallel invitation to tender or to draw up tender documents by obtaining a building permit, but the construction of the first stage of the carriage will be based on a co-financing agreement of 27. 11. 2013 between the Directorate and the Municipality of Maribor funded 84% by the Directorate, 6% by the Municipality of Maribor, 9% by the municipality of Maribor. It is a pity that co-financing with European funds is not envisaged. In addition, and I hope that, at the end of the priority list of the Government, the second and third stages of the Western bypass will also be included in this part. The government does not ignore Maribor, nor does it ignore this part of Slovenia because of the case of a covid from Styria. Be aware, however, that we took up our mandate in special circumstances when, first, if we had money, we put money in this common bag. And since then, the distribution has been a little different. The budget is also locked and so is the case, because we had an extraordinary situation. Mr Member, there is no problem in informing you as to how the work on the southern railing is going on.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u88	Mr. Secretary, will you, therefore, strive to place this investment on this list on the basis of intersectoral coordination, if I understand you?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u89	I'm fighting for all the important investments, and this is one of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u90	My fellow Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u91	I propose that a debate be held on this topic, which is very important for Slovenia and for the development of investments in general. And please allow me to explain my procedural proposal. In Slovenia we have a very rich road and rail network, about 6,000 kilometres of state roads, more than a thousand 200 kilometres of railways. And as you know, in the SAB Group, we have tabled in the legislative process a proposal to set up a special infrastructure fund to ensure continued financing of investments and the implementation of investments, the planning of investments. That's what we predicted 4, 5 types of funding for. This is not about new funding, but about the reallocation of funds, for the purpose of using these funds, from the annual road use levy, the concession fee of Luka Koper, including the reimbursement for extraordinary transport on main and regional roads. And most importantly, the 2 percentage points of VAT that were added during the previous crisis were due to the crisis. And we believe that if such a fund existed, we would not be discussing whether or not we would be making these investments today. The money would simply be provided, so I ask for a discussion at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 June, in the framework of the votes. The next question is the question put by fellow Member Gregor Perič, who will be asked by the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u93	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice greetings to everyone, colleagues and colleagues, government! My question is about the area of justice, from the point of view of facing the epidemic as such. As we all know, they've been since 16. 3. Until the outbreak was lifted, special measures were in place in the way the judiciary operated. We have also decided in the National Assembly on the Law on temporary measures in relation to judicial, administrative and other public law matters for the control of the spread of communicable diseases SARS-COV-2, which has mainly determined the duration of urgent temporary measures. The next step was followed by an amendment that specifically addressed issues in very specific procedures, such as insolvency proceedings, labour disputes, enforcement, judicial procedures and the like. At least my impression is that, as Minister, you have approached the drafting of legislation with restraint and, above all, with discretion and a gradual elimination of intervention measures. It seems to me that this was okay and appropriate, since reservations about the speedy opening or release of all these measures have also been made on the part of the judiciary itself. My assessment is that certain measures have been appropriate and have helped to avoid the possible collapse of the judiciary because we know that there would be many negative consequences. The epidemic has also shown in the final stage that the infrastructure available to the judiciary is also based on information and communication technological capabilities that also allow distance work and allow certain processes that are not necessarily linked to the physical presence of any party in the process at a given location. And I want to know: How do you assess what your view of court work is at the time of the epidemic? What are the experiences of you, Ministry? And what can you plan on doing on this in the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u94	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u95	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Member, thank you for your question as well. As you yourself have already stated, action was needed during the epidemic. In fact, the President of the Supreme Court had already adopted an appropriate order in accordance with the applicable legal basis, but later it turned out that this legal basis was not sufficient, so we had to cut into legislation. And as you have already seen, there has been a lot of reflection on how to perform, which matters to settle, because this is a very sensitive area of rights and obligations of an individual. Any mistake they made would no doubt be known to a large number of people. Indeed, we have taken a thoughtful approach and have always been available to individuals. There were a lot of questions about what could be done, what could not be done. I must greatly commend the Supreme Court, which has been involved in the drafting of legislation, as well as all other stakeholders. We are not just talking here about the judiciary, we are also talking about the State Prosecutor's Office, the State's Attorney's Office, including the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions, Procrastinations. The whole chain had to play together, and it turned out that we really played together and were gradually releasing these measures. I estimate that all these judicial authorities have performed their task extremely effectively, and that the preparation for the outcome of the situation itself has been based on the exit strategy that the National Institute for Public Health has assessed as one of the best they have encountered. However, we also had to think further about how to regulate business after the epidemic ended, and we provided all the necessary funds needed by the courts, so that all the spatial issues and other technical equipment needed were resolved. The courts are also thinking about this – and then we have also prepared an amendment to the legislation that will soon be in Parliament – to reduce judicial holidays this year precisely for the purpose of increasing the number of pending cases, but we are only talking about 5%. This means that they have resolved 85% of the cases during this time. However, they could not solve those matters where a claim was to be made. In such cases, things have stopped. In addition, the courts have a special programme to solve pending cases since Lukenda's time, so that, if there is an increase in the volume of work, they will pursue cases. Undoubtedly, as you said, digitalisation itself is the one that allows you to work from home and perform procedural actions in an urgent physical presence, so that during the epidemic we provided mainly videoconferences where it was essential for those who were in detention because they were tied to procedural hands; and experience was good. However, we are preparing a basis for using these in a broader context. I have to commend and say that the courts have really played their part. I was also on a visit to the District Court in Cyprus, where I also checked how this was actually done in practice. I also intend to visit all the other districts to discuss what the epidemic processes are like and to address other content.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u96	Thank you very much. My friend Perich, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u97	Thank you. Thank you for the first part of the answer. It might also be interesting to find out in a broader context: What are the activities carried out within the Ministry of Justice towards digitisation of the judiciary as such? Are there any projects in progress in this direction? What can we hope for in the future? I think that this was also an incentive, not the way we would like it to be, but it should be used to accelerate and make them more accessible to the public with some additional energy. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u98	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u99	Thank you for that part of the question. It is very important and digitisation in justice is one of the priorities of the Ministry of Justice. The so-called Effective Justice Project, which also has a basis for European funding and together is worth €32 million and €900 000, almost €33 million, is under way throughout the justice system. It consists primarily of three processes. One is a recast of business processes, the other is an incentive and quality assurance in justice, and the third is an improvement in judicial competence. It's 14 processes and 40 contents. So far 27% have been exhausted, perhaps a little too little, so we have prepared a specific action plan and will meet with the Supreme Court in these days, where this share is the smallest; we have already met with the Ministry of Public Administration. We want to speed up all this funding. There are also objective reasons for the lack of staff in this field of IT experts in the public sector. And even in court, it's extremely difficult to get a cadre that's qualified to do that. Perhaps I should mention some extremely important processes that will contribute to greater efficiency and also to greater openness and transparency of justice. One of them is a mobile judge. This means that we will equip all the judges with laptops and will be able to perform all these tasks from home or from another location; they do not necessarily be directly at the location. The introduction of public auctions, which we hope will be in place by the end of the year, is also of great importance. Videoconferences are also of great importance, so we want and are already in the process of acquiring equipment to equip all courts with videoconference equipment. In this way, the contracts will also be able to be executed, which means that we will reduce time, as well as costs, in some way solve the spatial difficulties in the courts. It is also of paramount importance in criminal proceedings, we are going along the way as regulated in civil procedures, we will ensure electronic service and electronic investment of applications. Furthermore, the publication of judgments in the first instance. With 1. 7. will already be in force and fully operational the re-registration of the flags and rubble of movables, which is also of paramount importance for the economy. I think that in this way, with the realization of all these projects, we will bring the judiciary and all justice very much closer to our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Comrade Jani Ivanuš will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present, especially the ministers present! As Members, we have the only weapon in our hands, which is called the question of the mission, so we always use the questions sent. And so it is about the fast road Ormož-Hajdin, for the third time in this mandate, but still. I think there's something else that needs to be done. I asked the former Prime Minister of the Government of Mr Sharpe, then former Minister Bratušek, but I still believe that the questions are still in play or that this road is being built as soon as possible. This road has its roots since 1997, when the first part was placed in the environment and space, and some time stamps should have been used in 2013 for 7 years. Today we are 2020, and we still do not have the construction of this part of the fast road. I personally asked questions and looked for answers to Dars, Ars, wherever I could have been, I was also at a meeting in Markovci with the mayor, where meetings about the road were held. Wherever possible, I've been involved. I'd also like to say how important this road is to our work. If I say that Mr Restoration has brought three potential investors to the former sugar factory area, all three of them have basically cancelled in that part of the score when we are talking about the highway cross. But that's where things stopped. So much for my introduction. Mr. Minister, I'm going to ask, but it's your turn today. By the end of June 2019, almost €18 million had been spent on the construction of the Hajdin-Ormož or Ormož-Hajdin rapid road, according to the previous government. Residents of these 18 million euros still have nothing. That's why I want to know: How is this investment going? I got the following message from Ars this January. As of November 2018, Arso issued a conclusion for the Markovci-Gorišnica section that an environmental impact assessment should be carried out and environmental consensus should be obtained. Dars ordered an environmental impact assessment to be made by the end of 2019. Dars reported that he sent an application to the Ministry of Infrastructure 7. 2. 2020. The integrated procedure for issuing a building permit for facilities with environmental impacts is run by the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Directorate for Space which issues a building permit. I want to know: Was Darce’s role perfect? Was Dars invited to complete this application? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u102	Your time is up. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u103	Thank you very much for that question. Thank you also for the constructive discussions last week or now 10 days ago when I was in Ormož with the mayor. There we were gathered: three Members elected in this constituency and all the mayors who are taking part in this future fast road. I'm also saying it's been going on too long. The whole discussion and hesitation about this fast road really drags on too long. On the basis of the constructive meeting that we had last had, and the conclusions or arrangements that we have agreed that Dars will begin with the preparation of parallel tender documentation for the first and second stages, the first major step forward will be made. The last story we have to make about the third stage is that somewhere in the south, whether it's J2 or the south side of Ptuj, places the route and then has a year and a half to start with placement or with all the procedures, they are also committed to it. With regard to your specific questions, we've checked and received answers from Dars. In preparation for the construction of the Markovci-Gorišnica section, despite repeated justification in the previous procedure, that the intervention with all the documentation and rewinds already produced and the prior consents will not have an impact on the environment, Dars is after one year, that is 30. 11. 2018 received a decision by the ILO or Arsa that an environmental impact assessment and environmental consensus should be carried out for the Markovci-Gorišnica section. This decision then greatly slowed the acquisition of a building permit in this section, so that the construction of the main road Markovci-Gorišnica-Ptuj will be delayed according to previous plans. But I stress, I believe that by means of a parallel procedure, if the tender documentation itself could be conducted, this would be absolutely necessary. I believe that, in good cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and Space, we will be able to obtain this thing as soon as possible. Dars forwarded the completion of the documentation in the integrated procedure for issuing the building permit 1. 6. 2020. The Integrated Edition Procedure is now run by the Ministry of Environment and Space, and the Ministry of Environment and Space is responsible for taking a decision on the completeness of the application for a building permit. I believe that procedures here could be faster than they have been before, I believe so. In order to avoid any delay in the invitation to tender, in the repetitive invitation to tender, and so on, it is wise — which was the last time we decided at your meeting — to go into parallel procedure to obtain a building permit. And in parallel it is necessary to place a southern bypass or south of Ptuj, J2 for example, and to make a decision with which some mayors are once again not satisfied to follow this route. There will have to be a decision that not everyone will like if we want to come to an integrated and final solution. But I'm optimistic, and I believe we'll start construction next year. Dars promised, you were in addition to preparing the tender documents within two months; and they will.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u105	Everything nice and right, as the Minister has said, I will continue with what I have prepared. I agree with what you said. I was also there when these four points were confirmed or unanimously adopted in Ormoz. You've already listed them yourself, so I wouldn't repeat them. However, I am interested in the fact that in this part of the building permit for the second part, the representative of Darsa said that they had already received an application to supplement the application. And I am in contact with the gentleman who issues building permits at the Directorate for space, construction and housing, and he told me that they are in the processing phase of the application, but he can't give any information. This is the only place I think there's a disagreement about this. Dars said they had already received a request to complete the application, and this gentleman told me that they had not yet officially given of themselves. It's the only discrepancy. In the third section, I would like to ask: Have you talked to Mr. Visiak about the third stage, as you mentioned, the placement of the third stage; is this now just a promise? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u107	Dars was the one who sent this. 6. 2020. That's what Darsa and I got. Of that, it's 14 days now, because it's not a few months. But we need to talk to the mayors there about the southern part of the perimeter. Then I was involved as soon as I got out of this meeting, a lot of attacks from some of the shareholders, if you'd still consider going north. Do you understand that it is a problem to talk about where a certain route will go if not all stakeholders are coordinated? But this time they won't be able to be all coordinated. Some say that this southern part goes too close to the village of Videm or that it goes too close to the congregation, others say Arso will then have comments about going too close to the embankment. It will be up to us to decide whether we want the road or whether we want peace so that we do not listen to this swift road; both of us are not. I think the best solution will be to bury the J2 fast road in order to follow the part where the remote control is also planned. While the Natura 2000 area is there, the question is whether we will get a positive opinion with the European Commission on long-distances. However, if we get a positive opinion here on the far-off Circovce-Pince, then it would be easier with this road link. Other mayors themselves say that it is not possible to take place north of Ptuj. We would have gone too far, not the Ormož-Ptuj Binding Road, but Ormož and a few kilometers north. That wouldn't work. I think that this variant of J2 is the most appropriate option to take it forward as soon as possible in order to reach a decision. On our part, of course, we must decide that this is the case. However, I hope that at the next meeting, when we meet what I have promised, we will also gain agreement from the other stakeholders.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u109	Thank you. Thank you, Minister, for your optimistic predictions, I hope that at least J2 will remain so. You know, if we want our Slovenia to move on, we need to have as much infrastructure as possible and so on. I hope you are aware that we may have been a little more neglected in that area for decades or decades, but I hope that we will get to this road once. Although I know that my initiative to discuss at the next meeting will be rejected, I will still propose that the debate be held, something else will be added, maybe more explanation and so on. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u110	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 June 2020, in the framework of the votes. The word is given by Joseph Horvat, who will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for John the Bricker King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u111	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister Janez Ciegler King. Life experiences often lead us to realize that there is good in every bad thing. The epidemic must be bad because it endangers our lives, so the medical profession, the government and the National Assembly called in one voice – Stay at home. But we didn't just go home to rest, lazy. It is right that we deal with our families, but it is also right and especially that we work. The epidemic of the new Coronavirus, as we knew it, most of us know, turned it upside down in a moment. It has also made many changes in the work processes. If, by March, work at home in a variety of organizations seemed impossible or unnecessary, most of us realized at the time of the epidemic that doing work at home could be a very flexible form of work, which, according to some studies, does not bring any less productivity, and for the employer, costs are lower. Mr Minister, in your interviews, which I closely follow, you often repeat that you would like to relax this area of work at home. We're both thinking about legal change. Can you please explain: How would they do so under the current regime and what benefits would this bring to citizens; on the one hand, employers and workers? And how would this ensure a very important social dialogue? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Horvath, thank you very much for this question. As you know, this subject is also very close to me personally. Not only have I highlighted better ways of coordinating family and work life as a candidate for a minister at the hearing as one of the main priorities of my work, but I am also a husband and father of four children. In this regard, I know well from my own experience how much every extra hour I spend with my loved ones at home means, and I do not lose it on the road when I drive to work or from work. It is true that during the crisis we were faced with situations where many companies, as you said, and also the state administration unilaterally ordered employees to work at home. In particular, I can say that half of the team worked at home at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Similarly, there have been very important bodies operating under our jurisdiction, including the Employment Institute, the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute and others. I can tell you, and I am proud to say that in such an organization of work, when half the teams were at home, we had no difficulty performing regular functions and also all the additional functions we have introduced through anti-Korona legislation. This way of working really has many advantages. The figures according to the Labour Inspectorate show that some 10,000 Slovenian companies decided to work this way during the coronal crisis. We have seen well and now analyze all the advantages and traps, perhaps the weaknesses of this type of work. Let me mention, as you yourself have pointed out, work at home during the epidemic has been determined. In most cases, it meant that where children were at home and children were at home, employees had to do household work with everything else, at work, taking care of their children. This is certainly also a particular effort or a certain heavy part of the epidemic, but we have mostly very good responses and experience. But when we talk about your question today, we are talking about what is called what I would call a peace-keeping job at home, when, in principle, children, at least in the vast majority, in preschool education or in primary school or in school, when, apart from themselves, employees probably have some more difficult household obligations, at least not at the time of employment, and where we can see a number of positive effects of this work. And something else is very important, and this work must remain primarily in the field of agreement between the employer and the employee on such a way of working. Current experience shows that working at home reduces hospital absences, that there are fewer injuries in the workplace and, in the vast majority, also greater efficiency. Of course, in the near future we will present a more detailed analysis on the basis of which we will base the next steps. Let me mention which four obligations of the Home Labour Act currently exist, because we also want to break some stereotypes in this regard. Firstly, it is important to conclude a specific employment contract for work at home, whether it is a new job or an employee who is already employed by the employer. Another obligation has been to inform the Labour Inspectorate and the third is that the employment contract must set out the rights, obligations and conditions which depend on the nature of the work at home. And fourthly, a worker or employee has the right to compensation for the use of his or her resources at home. With regard to these four points, we are also planning further steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for your time, Mr. Secretary, for your answers. That's exactly what I wanted. The epidemic is now behind us, thank God, we can boast, all together as Slovenian society we are stage winners, but it is only the first stage and I hope there will be no others. The epidemic was lifted on 31 May this year, life is slowly returning to normal railways, and most of the organisations have already invited their workers to return to their jobs, to the employer's premises. More than saying that life is going back to the old, normal tracks, I'd rather point out that we're getting used to it and moving on to some new normality. So, like it was, it's never gonna happen again. And most developed countries have known home work for quite some time. I am pleased that you mentioned that there is a need for a contract of employment between the employer and the employee to carry out work at home. And since modern technology allows us to do certain tasks, certain works, not all of them, we can work at home, and there is probably a lot to define in this contract. Here I would like to give you more time to tell you what are those elements that this treaty must define. When we are in the employer's premises, somehow after automaticism we understand that the employer cares for our information system of our corporation; but when I'm home, I probably have to think about it myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador Horvat. Let me stress that I do not wish to rush social dialogue, which means a great deal to me; and I know that we will talk extensively about this subject within the Economic and Social Council, especially on the basis of the experience of the pandemic. However, I myself assess that this way of doing work, i.e. work at home, some say work at a distance, pay more attention than so far and even in all activities where such work is possible. Employers can thus make the work process much more flexible, lower operating costs and further motivate workers. On the other hand, workers can buy time, precious time to be with their family, and thus better reconcile family and professional life, as they do not waste time to transport on and off work. It is not negligible that infrastructure and, what is important today, the environment are much less burdensome. I may mention that in our discussions with the Labour Inspectorate, we have already considered simplifying the notification form on the decision to work at home for employees. This would be a big step towards facilitating this work. On the other hand, as you yourself said, and I mentioned earlier, it will be necessary to see whether it is possible, rather than just a contract of employment, perhaps an annex to the contract, to simplify the way in which the agreement concluded between the worker and the employer is concluded. But the deal is still final, and that's very important. We are both from rural areas, but I can say that work at home is also a very good step to preserve rural areas, not to pull people out of their surroundings, to keep rural areas inhabited, to stay young, active people there and care for perhaps older people, their children, to protect nature; and, on the other hand, as I said, we do not burden infrastructure. Here we see many more positive effects of working at home if we manage to facilitate it and bring it closer to employers and employees, of course in the context of social dialogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Ambassador Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister of Justice mags a question. Lilliani Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello, Minister. For a while now, I've been following the personal story of a girl who was raped on a jackal less than 15 years old. In official proceedings, however, she was once again abused and has lost every hope of ever seeing justice. And the most terrible of all is that this is not the only case, that these cases in Slovenia are much more than we hope to admit at all and as far as is permissible in society as is ours. Although the Council of Europe has provided clear guidelines on the upbringing of all people who come in contact with the victim, from police officers to judges, there is nowhere to move. Several European countries have already modernised legislation in a way that defines any sexual contact as a crime of rape without clear consent. The amendments to the legislation were adopted by the United Kingdom, Belgium, Cyprus, Germany, Iceland, Luxembourg, Sweden and so on. For many years, professional and non-governmental organisations have pointed out the pressing issue of addressing sexual violence in Slovenia. I am talking about a whole range of systemic shortcomings – ineffective prevention of sexual violence, prosecution of perpetrators, inadequate protection and treatment of victims of crimes against sexual inviolability, in particular women and children, revictimisation of victims, low level of reporting to law enforcement authorities, the work of judicial authorities and also judicial practice. Nothing is being done to prevent or eliminate the social acceptability of these crimes, although in 2015 Slovenia ratified the Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence and on combating them, and in spite of the Resolution on the National Programme for the Prevention and Suppression of Crime for the period 2019-2023, which discusses awareness of domestic and female violence, training competent authorities for working with victims and addressing the sexual exploitation of children. I therefore ask you in this regard: What are your plans for redefining the crime of rape in a way that will define the crime as any sexual relationship without consent or as defined by a model that just means yes? Your predecessor, as is known, has already initiated procedures in this direction. Will you continue them? Do you intend to redefine the definition of the crime of sexual abuse of a weak person, as the current regime treats the weakness of a person even as a mitigating circumstance? How will you ensure that victims of sexual violence are properly treated and protected? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u121	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Member Tomić, thank you for your question. I absolutely agree with you. There are too many of these acts in our society. Sexual violence is just one of the crimes in a series of sexual inviolability that we have regulated in the 19th chapter of the Penal Code. As far as this is concerned, we do not actually know, but I am aware that there are many more of these actions among the partners than have been reported. And there is no doubt much more in the field of children, and there is no doubt in the area of prostitution. However, certain persons were condemned to say statistics, which I find to be personally horrifying, for 2017 we had a total of 62 convicted persons, 24 for a crime of rape, 24 for a crime of sexual violence and 14 for sexual abuse of a weak person. In 2018, there were 14 perpetrators of rape, 24 perpetrators of sexual violence and 6 perpetrators of sexual abuse of a minor. As you said, it is not only a matter of persecution, but much more needs to be done. I think our society needs a comprehensive approach, given the patterns that are in it and this is happening. If I first answer you about the issue of sexual violence in this particular case, which has shown that there are gaps in the legislation; and what you said that the predecessor has already begun certain activities in this area; of course, we are actively continuing them. Many conversations have been conducted by NGOs before, and an empirical study has been carried out. At the professional level, it was found that the veto model as well as the model – Yes means they still represent a certain legal void, so we are thinking in the direction you said and as comparable legislation is already in some other countries. Articles 3 and 8 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights also speak, and in this case the European Court has already ruled that any sexual intercourse without consent must be regarded as the worst act. Because there can be situations where an individual simply freezes, so he is unable to say Yes means yes, or can come to a moment of surprise. In practice, this is extremely difficult to reach, so we are thinking in this direction. But we have not yet reached consensus at the professional level, because one is what is socially and politically unacceptable, and the other is what the profession says. However, in view of the Ministry of Justice, we have a comprehensive approach to this situation, so we are preparing a strategy to raise awareness of victims as well. You just said that there is a lot of family violence or abuse between partners. We find that women sometimes do not hope to report or report or then withdraw their application, or they somehow cause certain things with their own samples. We think that we need to work on these samples, and we are preparing a strategy to have key moments done by September; in October, we would have this strategy by November at the latest. So it's about institutional work with the victims. We also work very hard on the perpetrators themselves, for there is something here in their personality. They need special treatment and we work with them under prison legislation. During last year, 7 such trainings were provided to judges and state prosecutors at the Centre for Education in Justice. What we are currently preparing and is already in the public debate and can also make proposals, but the law providing special treatment for children is known under the Children's House project. We are already in the process of acquiring such a place where this would be done, because we believe that the worst is reflected in their lives, and we provide special protection in such situations.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u123	I am glad that you are working on this, because this is a very big problem for us, and it also quickly becomes clear why women do not report rape. Usually, as a rule, these are people they know, who may even be family members and who are trusted by the victim. But the worst part is, and it is in your power that the victim has been raped twice – for the first time from the perpetrators and for the second time from the system. This has to be prevented. According to European data, every third woman over 15 years of age experienced physical or sexual violence; one in twenty women in the European Union, which is 5%, was raped when she was over 15 years of age, and only 15% of women reported the serious sexual violence of their intimate partner. If the attacker wasn't a partner, 14%. This is from the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights. The reality is, it takes a lot of courage to report this act. And then you have to go through all the painful procedures and it's scary that women then ask how much they were dressed, how much they drank. No dress is the cause of rape, and there must be no excuse for rape. Further traumatization of the victim is totally unacceptable, and therefore it is so important to educate all the people who are coming; and that these people who deal with the victim have no prejudices already in advance and are looking for excuses for the perpetrator. The myth of a stranger I hear so many times sends a completely wrong message that a sexual assault, when committed by someone who knows the victim, is not rape. It must be said that sex without consent is rape and that we must condemn it clearly and loudly in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u125	Thank you. I completely agree with you. I am aware, however, that only the Ministry of Justice of this broader context will not be able to implement it. There will be a need for the Ministry of Labour to cooperate, and perhaps another Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education. A comprehensive approach will be needed in this area. As far as the Penal Code is concerned, I am counting on the possibility that by the end of the month we may be able to commit to inter-departmental coordination, so we are very close. But as for the issue of the weak, I will look into it because I did not see this problem, so we will look at this issue in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Ms Lidija Dijak Mirnik will ask the Minister for Environment and Space mags a question. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The content of my question is that of Maribor, but of something else. Sounds like it. The disproportionate development of the Maribor region compared to other urban centres in Slovenia has affected the migration of labour to larger cities in Slovenia – according to Maribor to other major cities, mostly in Ljubljana – and to neighbouring Austria. Thus, every day from Maribor, about 30,000 people drive to work elsewhere, which is actually very worrying, even when we talk about how much time we spend on all those who drive from Maribor, and how we harm the environment, we don't even discuss it. On the basis of the Intervention Act to remove obstacles to the implementation of important investments for the start-up of the economy following the COVID-19 epidemic, I therefore ask you, Mr. Minister, to: Have you placed three of the following investments on the list of these important investments for the start-up of the economy, which are of paramount importance for Maribor? This is, for the first time, the project of the western outskirts of Maribor, which is a project of strategic importance for the further development of Maribor and the region. As part of the latter, the first stage in the final phase of placing in the space is described earlier by the Infrastructure Minister. In order to continue the second phase, the process of adopting the State Spatial Plan (DPN) needs to be accelerated and a third phase also needs to be built. That's the first question. The second project, at the national level, you support the development of education, culture and education, which is the basic library infrastructure that we do not have in the region. The construction of the so-called Rotov Centre – an innovative centre for the promotion of books, education, culture and digitalisation – would play a key role in achieving a high level of education and cultural development. In Maribor as well as wider in Slovenia, this project is better known as the Maribor Library. And the third project I am asking you about, the intervention law also provides for financing investment and investing in health care, which played an important role during the epidemic. At the time of the epidemic, the health station was identified as a system service provider at the primary level. As an entry point, however, it could be designed very quickly because it has proved to be inappropriate, although there are enough locations, but there is no suitable location. That's why I'm asking you: Is the health station Tezno the one that is also included in this list as a third? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the question raised. Allow me, in the introductions, only to explain why this law to accelerate the implementation of important investments has arisen. This law was not created to provide certain financial resources for a number of necessary investments in that country or to enable these investments to be made through the provision of funds. This law is due to the fact that many investments that have a financial structure closed down, which are in fact practically on the threshold of implementation, do not occur because of such and other complications in the issue of over-complicated licences in that country, because different co-operators cannot be harmonised because they are not able to coordinate on these bodies, in particular the Ministry of Environment and Space, the procedures take place for too long and often uncoordinated, no one is seriously concerned about coordination and someone speeding up the issue of these permits. That was the primary purpose. That is why we have prepared this law at the Ministry of Environment and Space; not at the Ministry of Infrastructure or at the Ministry of Economy. At the Ministry of the Environment and Space only because there is, as a rule, a cause of problems or a delay in the issue of permits, namely building permits and earlier permits, as regards State spatial plans and so on. However, we have drawn up this list of priority investments in three priorities. The first are those which are feasible this year and can also be started this year by accelerating the acquisition of licences. As a rule, they must have a closed financial structure and all the other conditions for them to happen, such as land management and the like. The second priority is investment where possible next year. The first and second priorities are considered to be investment projects worth more than €5 million, while at the same time these investments must also be in the country's strategic plans or in this or that area, such as infrastructure, health, the environment or any third or fourth area. Of course, we also have strategic investments that are still at the VAT level and it is more or less clear that they will not be feasible in 2020 or in 2021. That's the third priority. For these, a limit of EUR 25 million is set and is still at various stages of planning or putting into space. As far as your specific statements are concerned, I assure you that two of the three investments are included in the list of priority investments that the government is expected to adopt this Thursday or at the latest next Thursday. This is both the investment of the Centre Rotovž and the construction project of the health station Tesno. With regard to the western border of Maribor, which you have also highlighted, this project is obviously not yet in such a stage that it could be discussed within these three priorities. If the Ministry of Infrastructure, which, of course, is responsible for this project, recognises this, we will also include it. However, this decision establishing these priority investments is accepted by the Government and can be supplemented at any government meeting. It's nothing if it's not all up today, which can be done in the years after 2021. It is still time to do so, and I believe that this decision will be complemented by many different proposals, which we may not have recognised or classified today, and can also be justified to go up. We can do this at the next government meeting, and in 14 days or one month. As for the abandonment of Maribor, only a few numbers. From the Podravska statistical region, 25 projects of the total 168 that apply to the whole of Slovenia are included on the list of important investments, so this is quite something. We'll do our best to launch these as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I thank you very much for this information. If I understand correctly, the so-called Maribor Library and Health Station Tezno are already listed on this list. Can members of the opposition get this list as well? While it says in the law that it should be published on the websites, I suppose if you accept it on Thursday at the government, we will be able to see it. However, as far as all these three investments are concerned, all three meet all the criteria set out in Article 4, i.e. – implement the objectives of national strategic policies and strategic policy objectives or European cohesion policy programmes. Secondly, the preparation of projects is in the final stage, which means that their implementation can begin by the end of this year. Thirdly, projects also have partially funded funding or entirely, depending on the project. The implementation of these and many other development projects would thus contribute to sustainable and economic development and to addressing the negative demographic trends of the wider Maribor region, which has not fully recovered since the last financial crisis. That is why, Mr. Secretary, I am further interested: When is this third investment that I've been asking about going to be a Western Maribor bypass listed on this list? You yourself said that this list could be supplemented, but for the second stage of the route it is important to speed up the procedures of the adopted State Spatial Plan. Perhaps some things will have to be speeded up in your ministry as well. And I'm glad you're thinking this way, that these things are going to work out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Thus, two out of three investments are included, namely the Rotovž Center and the construction project of the health house Tezno; however, there is no Western Maribor Oblast. You yourself have said some contradictions, you said that it met all the conditions under Article 4 and that the project could start building this year, but you also mentioned that it is in the stage of accepting the VAT. This is an impossible mission, whoever did anything in this country ever. But I am aware of the importance of this project. A similar question has already been asked today by the Minister for Infrastructure of the other Member. We have also coordinated this list of important investments with the Ministry of Infrastructure, because we do not know all the priorities across different ministries; and this project was not listed above. We will accept this week in the government, or no later than next week, because there can be a number of proposals that have not yet been made, even though we have already coordinated this intersectorally. And we're going to add this if only the department will recognize that it meets these criteria in the law that defines this list.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Since Maribor has been in the third, fourth, fifth city since the independence of Slovenia, although the second largest city in Slovenia, it has somehow not been given enough attention, so it is essential that we discuss this too. However, since the aim of the law is to speed up important investments in the Republic of Slovenia as soon as possible after the end of the epidemic, which will enable faster economic activity and growth in key investment sectors of the Slovenian economy, and thus, of course, the faster recovery of the Slovenian economy, I think it is important that we discuss this at one of the following meetings. Perhaps we would also look at some other investments that have been standing in Maribor for some time now, and they should be made public so that other Members will know how important Maribor has been in the history of this country and how important it could be. By the way, when I speak, I suggest to everyone who listens to us today, and to all those who are here today, that you use the shepherds in Maribor, because Maribor with its surroundings, Pohorje with its green potential offers many things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 June 2020, in the framework of the votes. It's a Magnificent message. Meira Hot will ask the Minister of the Environment and the Magi space. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u137	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Jerne’s channel is an area of the municipality of Piran, which has been neglected and degraded for many years. It is located in the area of the natural value of the Sečovlje salts and as such is part of the protected Sečovlje Solina Landscape Park and represents the natural and cultural heritage of the Municipality of Piran and the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, it is part of the Natura 2000 protected area and is therefore subject to a special protection regime and rules of procedure. Although the municipality of Piran in the past had a water permit over the channel in question for the purpose of the regulation, it did not obtain the relevant consent from the State. As far as I know, he's out of water now. At the same time, I should like to say that the Court of Auditors carried out an extraordinary audit in 2017 concerning the rehabilitation and management of the channel concerned and found the responsibility of all stakeholders, in the first place the Government and the Ministry of the Environment and the area which failed to fulfil their commitments already made in 2003 when the concession contract for the management of the park was concluded. The government has committed itself to starting the process of draining the canal. In the last two years, although the Ministry of Environment and Space began to empty the canal, unfortunately only old and waste barges. And because there was no real control, in fact, there were always new, black-walled piers, new ties, and new boats. So today, there are still illegal docking in the canal, and there are several hundred vessels that are illegally tied to the battles, including largely abandoned, damaged and even partially submerged, which together poses a greater potential risk, which could also have harmful consequences and could be an environmental disaster. I draw attention to the urgency of the regulation of the Jerne channel in the sent questions since the beginning of the previous government's mandate. Both your predecessors have committed themselves to finalizing the matter, but I am sorry, as far as I know, despite all the activities that have been carried out today, the regulation of this area is back on track. With regard to the arrangements themselves, there were two options. One was that the Municipality of Piran is the holder of the project and obtains the relevant consents and arranges the local port and places it in the management of the local municipal company; the other was to take over the regulation, but in this case there would be no ties, which would otherwise be a major damage, because it is a local port used by locals from the 1960s. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm interested: Are you familiar with the particular issue? Have further discussions with the Piran Congregation, or have the congregation ever obtained all the necessary consents and permits? Are there even any budgetary resources or cohesion resources in place to enable the project concerned to be implemented? What activities are currently being led by the Ministry of Environment and Space to definitively address this environmental disaster? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dealing with this issue has a long beard. You said something on this subject. The environmental inspection and spatial inspection carried out a case-by-case review of these abandoned vessels and conducted a total of 15 inspections during the period 2018-2019, 11 of which were completed. Of course, 27 abandoned vessels have been removed, but the matter is not nearly settled, although my predecessor, the Minister of the Environment, has taken several pictures there in the sense that the matter is now resolved. And today you find out it's not, and I know it isn't. In fact, something needs to be done and a little less taken if you agree. The municipality of Piran and the municipality held a meeting, namely the mayor of Piran Municipality and the director of the municipal company, on 28 May this year at the Water Directorate of Mr Roman Kramar. The municipality, as well as the municipal company, expressed interest in regulating the local port in the area and it was also agreed to provide for the stated intention as the port manager of the municipal company Okolje Piran. In order to realize this purpose, the municipality should amend the municipal decree accordingly, on the basis of which it will obtain a water permit and start managing and gradually regulating the port. This is one initiative. However, I also experienced a second initiative myself at a meeting with the concessionaire Soline, d.o.o., who also expressed an interest in managing this area or certain projects. The proposal was written on Friday, there may be a difference today; to date or to 12. 6. No application for a permit for direct use of water for port and exit and entry point has been submitted to the Water Directive under the regulations on inland waters. As we are aware, there has also been no change in the Port of Piran Channel. Jernej, which was adopted in 2010 and in which the concessionaire for managing the local port of Jernejevo channel is appointed Soline concessionaire, d.o.o. I want to tell you that not all those who should have done something about it on the basis of our meetings have done so far and probably have not done so, because there is relatively little time. This meeting, as I said at the end of May, is now in mid - June and probably there was no meeting of the congregation council, probably no material prepared. It is in the interest of the Ministry of Environment and Space to address this issue as soon as possible, in the way that this part of the Jerne channel serves its purpose in terms of the development of tourism, in terms of the development of nautical tourism, including the needs of locals and so on. In short, we expect and will be susceptible to the proposals made by the local community in relation to this relatively promising infrastructure, which to this day is unfortunately in a state such as this.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u141	Thank you very much. First of all, I very much agree with you – less painting, more operational and more activities, absolutely. Second of all, according to your answer, I find there's obviously still a lot of confusion. And here I regret that there is also no need to change the decree by the leaders of the Piran Municipality. The concessionaire after this decree is not known at all. One is the supervisory right that Soline, d. o. o., is governed by, and the other is the concessionaire within the meaning of the implementation of the concession act. This invitation was never made by the Municipality of Piran because the act itself is such that you cannot get the relevant investor. It was therefore agreed to make a project with minor interventions and to transfer it to the management of the Piran municipality. And it's interesting to me that now they've come back with the proposal to change the decree, because the question of time dynamics is once again, we'll be waiting months and months before anything happens. It would be important for the Municipality of Piran to finally gain the consensus that was lacking. I think that it was on the part of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, as I see it, that the Minister of Culture was also very busy with this, so I appeal to you, Mr Minister, to invite the municipality of Piran to carry out the work by doing things as soon as possible and not to have the procedures drawn again, because you have found very correctly, even tourism in this context suffers greatly. We are next to the Sečovlje Soline Landscape Park, one of the most degraded areas in Piran Municipality and shows a very bad picture of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u143	Yes, in addition to the reply, let me say that this meeting this year at the Waters Directive was not the first to meet on 4 March, in the previous government, in the previous coalition, and that it was also agreed at that time. And nothing carried out, or we have no information, that this decision would have been amended, even though they found it necessary. Now you're saying you don't have to. This reminder also tells me that the Port Order of Piran is the channel of St.Jerney, in which the concessionaire for managing the local port in Jerneje channel is appointed as the concessionary of Soline, d. o. o. So you're saying it's wrong not to. Apparently, even in the Municipality of Piran and the Water Directorate, they don't share your opinion, because otherwise we wouldn't have written it and we wouldn't have agreed on it. However, something indisputable holds, which I initially said that, irrespective of whether this is necessary or not, an application for a water permit for direct use of water for a port was not submitted to the directive. If an undisputedly needed or unnecessary concessionaire were involved, it could be an application or another invitation to tender. When I see this, it is a local port and it is a matter of jurisdiction within the congregation. And if there's a will to settle this, we also have the will to issue appropriate permits. We have actively approached, so we have also held meetings with those who want to do so. I believe that in a relatively reasonable time we will also find solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Again, I find that there are many conflicting information, including from everything you have just said, to quote you from the audit carried out by the Court of Auditors, where it has found the responsibility of the municipality in only one part: “The municipality adopted a decree in 2005 setting out the spatial regulation of the Jernei Canal area. In 2009, she obtained water rights for the construction of a local port in the canal of Jerney. Since the municipality did not provide adequate and sufficient funding resources and failed to find an investor willing to take over the investment burden, the Court of Auditors estimates that there is insufficient assurance that the municipality will be able to implement the current plans for the construction of the local port in the Jernej Canal to the extent envisaged.” On this basis, the Municipality of Piran then approached and amended the existing plans in such a way that they could be implemented so that the municipality could implement them and then transfer them to the management of the public company Okolje Piran. I think we should clear things up anyway. This is an area which, after all, is now in the state's intervention, because — as you yourself said — the municipality of Piran does not have a water permit. It would be appropriate to hold a debate in this context, so I propose that a discussion be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 June 2020, in the framework of the votes. Member Primož Siter has the floor to ask the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u147	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Minister! Hello, colleagues and colleagues! Culture, especially in this performance work, in concert activities, due to the covida-19 epidemic and consequently government measures to prevent the spread of infection by banning events in public places suffered the greatest harm. We talked about this in the National Assembly. The recovery process will be prolonged. This will affect most of the employees, most of the organisers, creators, organisations and businesses that create this sector at all. The performance activity was due to the anti-combination measures of the one who suffered the first one on the wallpaper, so to speak, and the one who would be able to function normally at full installations at the last. However, this is also one sector which is overtaken by the largest number of overworked professions. Few people in this segment, the economic segment or the cultural segment, are actually regularly employed. In the vast majority, there are very specific and other unemployable professions. The fact is, economic culture is not just a culture. Culture is an important factor in Slovenian tourism as an economic sector. Nevertheless, I regret to note that the government in past anti-Korona packages — first, second and third — has not allocated sufficient resources for this sector, sufficient programmes to recover. This has already been pointed out by Members and Members with parliamentary questions at previous meetings, as well as with meetings of competent working bodies. Since there were no clear and measurable answers to these meetings, the Minister-designate asked you the following question in this regard: In what way will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia offer assistance to the cultural performance and concert sector with a set of measures in the fourth anti-Korona marriage package? How will the Government ensure the preservation of jobs and the liquidity of companies in the performance sector and thus prevent the deepening of social pressures among stakeholders? Once again, these are professions that are mostly pre-arranged and very specific. How will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Culture allow the cultural performance sector to return to a stable work process? Does the Ministry have a strategy for the substantive, infrastructure, human and social development of the scene during the Poepidemic Recovery Period? Since some longer periods are involved and some longer workflows are involved, it makes sense to think about this now.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u149	Thank you. Most of what the Member asked is not about the Ministry of Culture, but about the Ministry of the Economy, as we have said many times to all those who have consistently stressed that we have not done enough for culture. It has to be said that there has been a great deal of work done for culture, and the efforts have been very great. The introductory words are also to say that Slovenian culture is specific to others in the European Union in the sense that it is much more heavily financed from public funds at national and local level than in other developed countries where we are so pleased to follow suit. Therefore, the damage suffered by culture in Slovenia at the time of the epidemic was relatively lower than in other comparable sectors, such as Italy, Germany and the like. Various numbers appeared that were inadequate, wrong and misleading about how the aids in Slovenia’s foreign visa were. It should also be noted that the Ministry of Culture, as I said at the outset, is not responsible for those concert activities of a commercial nature. In many activities, any country could say that the support is a basic activity, but it is not, however, a health, processing, clothing or other industry. The measures we have taken relate to the release of restrictive measures, the provision of smooth funding for programmes and projects within public institutions and non-governmental organisations, to the provision of financial refunds for cultural workers. At the same time, the measures concerned financial assistance to the most vulnerable groups or groups of self-employed persons. Release of measures – this is probably the industry that the Member of Parliament has been talking about that is the most affected. This is about commercial, in fact concert activities, also cultural, such as festivals, but they are financed from other surroundings, usually municipal or other means. These measures concerned, in particular, the release of the number of visitors to these events. This would not depend on the Ministry of Culture or on the Ministry of the Economy, but it depended mainly on the health institutions which regulated and regulated it. As of May 20th, it was released for 50 people, then June 1st for 200 people, and June 15th for 500 people. At the Ministry of Culture, we proposed that it should relax for a thousand people, but that is not up to us. Let us hope that this will soon come to pass, since it will not — let us hope — spread the disease that has threatened us in the last two months. The Ministry of Culture provided uninterrupted funding to all public institutions on the basis of the 12th. This allowed all public institutions in the field of performance and music activities to avoid, to the greatest extent possible, the damage that might have occurred; at the same time, they were able to maintain a condition for the measures to be definitively released and to begin with, say, this theatre, concert activity and so on, which has already started to some extent in recent days. The Ministry also paid uninterrupted funds on the basis of contracts with multi-annual programme and project operators from non-governmental organisations in both of the areas I mentioned, thus allowing for a renewed start-up of operations. All employers, including those working in the field of culture, were also entitled to 80 % of the cost of working for all employees in anti-korona packages. This made it possible to maintain the jobs of these people and their social security. Financial assistance was also given to the most vulnerable, i.e. self-employed persons, who were provided with basic income and all payments.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u150	Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I understand, we are talking about the social issue of cultural people who are self-employed in culture, so it is appropriate for the cultural ministry to respond to these challenges. The performance activity has attracted the shortest, especially in this social work. Let me answer the part of the question that I asked you, why it is most important in this part of culture to act and help immediately. First of all, because people are in trouble. The longer they wait, the worse it will be; the second, because the long-term process of revitalising this area is inevitable. This is a sector that needs more time under normal conditions to live in some normal work processes, so revitalising would also take more time and time. The government must rescue these employed culturers in specific occupations that are not employmentable elsewhere; in most cases it is here, once again, for not safe holiday jobs that are not safe already in normal circumstances. And the second question you have heard, which is very important for this sector, which is your responsibility, is an action plan to revive this part of the cultural map. That's why I'm asking: In what way will the government save the recreationally employed culturers in these specific professions? What plan to revitalize the area is being prepared and how are these workers involved and how are their social security addressed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Looks like we're talking through each other. As I have already said, the Ministry of Culture takes care of all self-employed people in culture who have those definitions financed by the Ministry of Culture. Everything else is under the responsibility of the Ministry of the Economy and not all cultures are supporting elements of a cultural activity. Today, by the end of June, they have an 80 % salary, if added, or even subsidised working hours. This is not within the jurisdiction of culture. For everyone else in culture, the Ministry of Culture is careful and will go against all things. It provided uninterrupted funds. By the way, penitentiaries or self-employed in culture, those directly related and entitled to basic income and all payments, were last May – we thought there would be much more – 500. This means that the contracts have not been terminated at all and have been in relations with public institutions, with employers uninterruptedly forward. This benefit of this opportunity to replace income for self-employed people in culture has, in fact, been surprisingly low for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u155	Thank you very much. If this expenditure was so low, we can hope that simple household accounting will level out elsewhere. One fact, here we will all agree that the government has slightly forgotten culture in the first three anti-Korona packages. Ask the culturers. Ask the culturers, the minister, and you'll see. Ask in the field, ask those who live the culture; and you will know what I am talking about. The measures, in particular those specific to the employees, are of no use in the criminal, specific professions of culture and performance and concert sector in the majority. All I'm saying is, for a magnetogram, the Minister of Culture just left the hall before I even finished talking to him. So most of the government's measures relating to employees, I will repeat, are useless in the pens, specific professions in culture. Most of the holiday employees cannot ensure normal survival with them, so I call on the government, which must include measures in at least the fourth anti-korona package for the survival and development of these people, otherwise we will feel the consequences not only in culture, but also as a result in tourism. In the economy, we like to understand culture as a tourist sub-branch or an economic sub-branch; the government does not want to and does not want to provide the conditions for the people they create, which create this tourism and this economy in order to actually do so. Consequently, not to mention, in the social field. That is why I remain in the position, as we have at one of the previous meetings and also in the consideration of the previous anti-korona package, that the use of the values and vouchers we know from tourism and sports should be extended to the field of culture – this would be one of the solutions – to the fields of culture, concerts, festivals, events and so on; and at least a little bit of the blurry of this hole that arises here. This may also be a good idea for other cultural areas, for the book, for the film and so on. I call on the government to do so, and the National Assembly to hold a debate on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 June 2020, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Nik Prebil will ask the Minister of Defense mags a question. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u157	Thank you very much, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, respectable minister! Dear Minister Tonin, my question today will be about a topic that raised quite a few dustes in Slovenia, and on 25 May we were able to see that an incident was to take place on the Slovenian-Italian border when the Slovenian soldier was supposed to point the gun at the walker. Slovenia has also found itself in some unpleasant situation in its relations with Italy. The Italian Member immediately referred the matter to the Italian Foreign Minister and invited him to ask the Slovenian side for clarification of the event. The Slovenian Ambassador to Rome, Mr Tomaž Kunstel, later requested an apology for the boycott for the unobjective reporting of the Maritime Diary on this incident. Then, on June 11th, the story got some kind of sequel, and it turned out that this Slovenian soldier was supposed to really point the gun at a walker who was also supposed to be a Slovenian citizen. And what does this mean, in fact, is that there has been an excess of powers. Mr Robert Glavas, Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, worked here, and I will quote him: “We have come to a new reality with all seriousness.” Then came a series of political statements. Mr Hojs, Minister of the Interior, diverted attention and said: "If this soldier had indications that it was organised crime, that it was human trafficking, he had to react and prevent crimes." That now we are clear – and you, Minister, you know that – a soldier on Slovenian soil can only react and only in the force, otherwise he has no authority, and that is what the police are responsible for. And since the activation of the military's powers under Article 37a was not in this house, I think it is a grave violation of the powers and powers. The press representative of the Slovenian Army, Mr Marjan Sirk, could not even answer the media what the Slovenian soldiers had done on the Italian border. He then claimed that this was a matter for the police to decide. The investigation is still ongoing, and what we were able to find out is that this incident occurred on the 7th. 5. and that this will be investigated by the Security Intelligence Service. I hope that the results will be realistic and then reported to the public. But since you are the government ministers of this event, which has proven to be a real one before, marked as fake news, the question here is: Or were you trying to cover up the truth about this incident? I want to know: What will you do? Do you have any new information that you can provide about the investigation of this event? What sanctions await the involvement of the Slovenian Army? If it turns out that the illegal activation of the military has indeed occurred or that you have deceived the public, I ask you: Will you step down from the city?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u159	Dear Member Prebil, thank you very much for your question. I am glad that you were right in the introduction and that you have repeatedly stressed the words – you should have. No, I don't. You don't even know what happened. And until the investigation is completed, it's hard to make any conclusions and I don't want to do them myself. About the things you were talking about, among other things, you mentioned false news and similar things, and let me say this: we reacted immediately at the Ministry of Defence when we learned about this event. I also spoke exclusively on the basis of official reports, because in the public eye there is the impression that I was talking about these things, about. When the press in this house asked me that afternoon, I said I couldn't comment on anything specific because the investigation was still ongoing, and that when all the data was known, then I could say more. And when I received the report from the General Staff of the Slovenian Army, I also said what they wrote on television. I have before me this report from May 27, 2020, which says, among other things, the article entitled “Stand down, sit down”, then with an automatic gun to his head – was published on the website of the Primorski Diary on Saturday, May 23, 2020, at 12.05. [[…]] At 3 p.m. on the same day, the author of the article Jan Grgič sent an e-mail to the public relations department asking for a discussion on an unpleasant event. He was only able to contact the Head of the Strategic Communications Service at the Ministry on Monday, 25 May, around 12 noon. This report, however, appeared on May 27th, so you can see that we reacted immediately. The article discusses the event that was scheduled to take place last week, says an article last week. Therefore, the Slovenian Armed Forces first checked the operation of members in support of the police in protecting the state border for the week from 18 May onward. On the basis of the article, the army checked all that week from 18 May onward. This did not reveal any specific features which would have been confirmed in the Article of that claim. Then this citizen, the citizen, whatever you call him, was questioned. And when we were able to obtain information from the author of the article about 12 o'clock on 28 May that the alleged event took place between 10 a.m. and 11 p.m. under the village of Michaela against the village of Beka, the Slovenian Armed Forces were able to identify the facts and circumstances of the alleged event more specifically. In the Slovenian Army, they carried out verification of operational logs to support the police in protecting the state border on 8 May 2020. They also checked the data with the police and held discussions with four members of the Slovenian Armed Forces who worked on patrols to support the police that day. Both patrols ensured that there were no incidents at work. On this basis, members of the Slovenian Armed Forces found that at the location of Mihele-Beka, where an alleged incident was to take place, the Slovenian Armed Forces did not carry out tasks to support the police in protecting the state border. This is the report of the General Staff of the Slovenian Army. Some ridiculed why this day alone, why not another day. As I read from their report, according to the comments in the article, they checked the entire week to which the article referred, that is, from 18 May onwards, when we received an exact date, without us inventing it ourselves, but being forwarded by the newspaper and also in the official police stamp, they also checked very precisely on 8 May and it was found that there were no members of the Slovenian Army at that point. Then, on June 11th, we took over the documentation from the police, where the police, with certain observations, found that there was a possibility that a member of the Slovenian Army might have been in that area on May 7th, which was the day before. Just because he was there doesn't mean he's done anything wrong, which means that at this point the investigation is still ongoing, the prosecution is directing her, so you can be calm so that she can be credible. And when the investigation is completed, you will be informed.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u161	Minister, thank you very much for the correct answer, but I would like just a few more additions. It is right and only right that we do not make any conclusions before the end of the investigation, but you must understand that this is a matter on which the whole public is paying attention, not only ours, but also the international one. As it is said, the matter is also discussed on the Italian side, and finally, I could invite Minister Logar to discuss the matter with you. Given that you've been reviewing the military's activities in these days, I'm guessing that whoever was involved in this incident was not reporting the incident. There has been some inconsistencies on both sides, both on the reporting side and on your side. Finally, I would like your information, as I pointed out earlier, if it were found that such activities by the Slovenian Army were really done, how you would act. I never want the ministers, any of them, to ask them to step down, just because it's like this, but we have to understand that it's going here if this really happened, which we're going to see later, for a really bad violation of the powers that the National Assembly of the Army has not approved. And then there will be some political responsibility and I want you to define yourself once again if it is found that such activity has been done or you will take political responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u163	The Slovenian army is a highly professional army and the rules under which they operate – look at the very thick speck, where there are precisely things written inside, how the military can operate at the border, and operates according to 37.a. [[Lapsus linguae. Article 37a instead of paragraph 37, the following points shall be made to the Magi. I'm Matthew Tonin.]] Article 4(2) One more thing to help you when you talk about political responsibility. For the military to be used at the border, it was adopted in 2015 at the time of the Cerarje government, the Sharčev government did not change it, and also the Sharčev government did not change the rules of the Slovenian Armed Forces at the border and the soldiers acted according to exactly these rules. I don't want anyone judging them in advance before the investigation is complete. But this is where my head is wanted, but it's clear. The line is Commander-in-Chief – President of the State – Defence Minister – Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Army. It's probably not a surprise that you're only going to the LMŠ to go to the Defence Minister, but it can also be quite your opposition manner, which I don't object to. At the same time, I am asking you not to be potentialized or dramatized needlessly. Firstly, the investigation has not yet been completed. I spoke to Mr Logar, Minister for Foreign Affairs recently, and he spoke to Foreign Minister Di Maiy several times during this time – no one talks about an interstate incident and similar things, so that things are created artificially. If anything could be identified as an incident, this event, which took place today at 8-22 a.m., crossed the Italian military vehicle with three Italian soldiers helping to protect the border on the Italian side at the former border crossing point between Italy and Slovenia. As soon as they noticed the mistake of being on the Slovenian side, Italian soldiers turned the vehicle around and left the Slovenian territory. The police officer at the OCC also announced that the border crossing notification had been received first by the citizen and then received an announcement at 8:44 from the Italian police, which Italian soldiers themselves had informed of the border crossing. There is no data on the type and type of weapons of the Italian soldiers, the citizen mentioned that the Italian soldiers crossed the border in a military car with a tarpaulin. He mentioned a vehicle that was supposed to be similar to an HMMWV armored vehicle. Why am I telling you this? Someone will be able to make out of this even drama and tension between the two countries, as you can see, a mistake has occurred to Italian soldiers, which they themselves have informed the Slovenian side. As far as Slovenian soldiers are concerned, I say again: there was no report of this alleged incident, although they are obliged to inform their superiors according to the rules of action. So I'm calling it all out again so things don't get dramatic after all. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Vojko Starovic will ask the Foreign Minister, Dr Anžet Logar, who is absent from 2 p.m. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u165	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, everyone! This year's July 13th will be a great day for Slovenians in Italy, as the National House in Trieste, which was burned by fascists, will be returned to the Slovenes a hundred years ago. The transfer agreement will be signed by the Presidents of both countries, Borut Pahor and Sergio Mattarella in Trieste. On the Foreign Policy Committee last week, Minister Logar said that this is a symbolic act of dimension that we find difficult to imagine. The Slovenian Consul in Trieste Vojko Volk called the event a half-century event. I agree with both of you. Trieste has always played a very big role in Slovenia. Ivan Cankar wrote: “If Ljubljana is the heart, the Trieste is the lung of Slovenia.” Clearly, this does not match some of the backward forces in Trieste. Recently, the municipal authorities declared June 12 the day of the liberation of Trs from the Yugoslav occupation. It's a pure provocation and a lie. The historical fact is that Trieste was released from German occupation on May 1, 1945. He was liberated by the partisan army as an allied army in cooperation with the Italian resistance movement. Later, the Partisan army withdrew on the basis of an agreement with the allies, with the British and American armies, on the basis of an agreement on how to share the military power with the peace talks on which the state border will be established. So it was no liberation, it was an agreement of allied forces, they divided the territory, and the Yugoslav army withdrew at that time. The new holiday is an obvious provocation and acts as a response to the close surrender of ownership of the National Home to Slovenians who have lived and worked here for centuries. For centuries Trieste was a lively port in which the national mixed population lived, among them after the census of the population in 1910, even before they came to Italy, in Austro-Hungarian 57 thousand Slovenes, 5 thousand more than in Ljubljana. I'm asking the minister: Why is there such a silent response and non-reaction as Mr. historian Jože Pirjevec said that [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u166	I'm sorry, your time has run out. As the Minister is absent, you must tell whether you want a written or oral answer. Oral response, thank you very much. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Dusan Šisko will ask the Minister of Culture Dr Vasku Simoniti a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u167	Nice greetings to all present! The calendar of national celebrations prepared and published by the State Celebration Service of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Slovenia shows that this year's national celebration will be held on 30 October in Lendava. In view of the fact that it is 500 years since the birth of the first dictionary of the Slovenian language and the Protestant schoolmaster, who was born in the vicinity of Brestnica near Krske, we would expect this celebration to take place in Krske. In this regard, representatives of the Municipality of Krško and Kulturna dom Krško addressed the previous Minister Zoran Poznič in the course of last year, but they did not get the right answer to this initiative. As is known, all three of the great men from the period of Protestantism and Slovenian culture – Primož Trubar, Adam Bohorič and Yuri Dalmatin are associated with Posavi. The last two come from or were born in the area of today’s Krka Municipality. As early as January this year, events and activities began to take place in Posavje in the framework of Bohorič's year, which aims to highlight the importance of Bohorič's work and his role in Slovenian cultural history. After a short interruption due to the Coronavirus epidemic, events continue. In this regard, I am re-initiating this year's national celebration on the day of the reformation to be dedicated to the 500th anniversary of Adam Bohorič's birth and to be held in Krske.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u169	Thank you very much. I thank the Member for his question. As you know, this calendar of national celebrations is not accepted by the Ministry of Culture, but by the Coordinating Committee for State Celebrations and Events, and its proposal is then confirmed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Members of the Coordinating Committee for State Celebrations and Events, which was chaired earlier by Minister Poznic, were presented at the reception of the calendar for this year, Lendava and Krško, with representatives of the Ministry in contact with the Krška Cultural House as a potential venue. Members of the Committee were also aware when deciding on the calendar that Krško will mark the 500th anniversary of Adam Bohorič's birth this year, but they decided on Lendava. In some cases, however, the Coordinating Committee on State Celebrations and Events has in the past reopened the debate on such problems and there is now such a debate. I think it is right or right to celebrate this celebration in Krske, given that Bohorič was born nearby, last but not least he led some 10, 12 years of school, his own, in the Slovenian language as he knows it. As you mentioned, he is actually the first dictionary and in his dictionary Arcticae Horulae, which is written in Latin, but gives theoretical basis to the Slovenian language. Of course, then he lives in Ljubljana and so on, I won't talk for long, he was also the head of the housing school and then he dies — now, this is a long story — in exile. I think that the founder, if you want, of the Slovenian language, and that he lived in Krske and worked there, but at the same time confused this all-Slovenian space, I think he has some privilege, some championship in that we could properly mark this celebration, the city of Krško, which I will personally support. I suggest you turn to the Coordinating Committee for State Celebrations and Events, which I will also address and support this initiative of yours. This is not about any opposition to Lendava or anything where the centre is, or Prekmurju, where we have the largest Protestant community, but there are many occasions where the celebrations are appropriate, in this case when it comes to a distinctly All-Slovenian space – Adam Bohorič at the time with Prekmurje himself may not have had such a connection – but I will gladly support your initiative. And I think that the town of Krška would be where we would properly celebrate this mark. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Procedural. Here you go, mag. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u171	Vice President, thank you very much for this procedural proposal. I had previously answered the question before, and correctly, Member Prebel warned me that I had made a mistake. And I have to fix it because it's a very sensitive thing, because this thing doesn't get abused later. When I spoke about the rules of action of the Slovenian Armed Forces in support of the police in the wider protection of the state border, this was, of course, based on Article 37 of the Defence Act. But since we've done it a hundred times, and I don't know how many times we've done this 37.a., I just made a mistake, which I sincerely apologize to you and I want to tell you about the record. So I talked about the rules of operation of the Slovenian Army under Article 37 of the Defence Act. I'm sorry I made a mistake. Thank you so much for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Ambassador Shisko, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u173	Thank you. Dear Minister! Thank you for your answer, with which you have shown understanding for my initiative, and thank you very much. In addition, in Posavje we have been trying to draw attention to the cultural achievements of Protestants for many years without specific political or ideological emphasis. In the town park in Krk there is a bustling statue of Adam Bohorič and Yuri Dalmatina. In the park on the left bank of Save, there is a unique sculpture of three Protestants. The elementary school in Brestnica has the name Adam Bohorič, the primary school in Kršek named Yuri Dalmatin. Posavska branch of the Slovenian Protestant Society Primož Trubar with co-organizers for more than a decade with a literary and visual competition.At the visit to Jurij Dalmatia, young generations are informed of the heritage of Protestant writers. On a high level, there is also a professional colloquium. It's just a few cases, and I could count them. In short, instead of asking you a question, Mr. Minister, and everyone else, an invitation to an event at the 500th anniversary of Adam Bohorič's birth and, of course, to a central celebration on the day of the Reformation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, Mr. Secretary? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u175	Thank you very much. There's nothing to add. I think that the initiative, I would say, supported, somehow tried to justify the reason for it to be marked there in Krk, and I also agree with what has been said. On the occasion of Protestantism and role, we will probably hear more in Krsek at 500 years of age. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mateja Udovč will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister Zdravko Restoršek! The Institute of the Republic of Slovenia provides an economic public service for the design and use of state reserves. The Goods Reserves Act lays down basic foods and non-food products that are essential for people's lives. This category of food also includes foods that are essential for the nutrition of patients with celliacs. The last outbreak of covida-19 showed a shortage of basic food supply systems at emergencies. During this time, various common people were most exposed, of which patients with celliacs were certainly included. In stores, the supply of the most basic gluten-free products used by patients and essential for their diet has been disrupted. A strict gluten-free diet is their only cure. The companies and other associations of patients with celiac disease also want to take account of their needs in the procurement process and therefore ask the competent institutions to provide a diet reserve. In their case, these products are gluten-free, gluten-free flour, gluten-free pasta and other basic gluten-free foods. If we do not provide these foods, we risk an increase in the number of severe disease flows that would further burden our health system. At the time of the outbreak at the Department of Commodity Reserves in March, I received an explanation that they currently have very little food in stock for patients with celiac disease. They only have rice, meat, some vegetables, fruit. Given the fact that the medical profession, especially epidemiologists, warns us against the second wave of covida-19 epidemic, I ask you: Are you ready for the immediate completion of the gluten-free supplies? How will you provide them? What kind of food will you provide? Will you systematically regulate the issue of emergency foods for patients with celliacs in the five-year supply reserve programme established by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? How will you handle this problem at the moment and how will you systematically address it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u179	Dear Member Matei Udovic, Honourable National Assembly, Chairman! Thank you for asking. We have talked so much about protective equipment lately that we have also forgotten the important role that the Department of Freight Reserves has. I am pleased with your questions and the initiatives you have given, and I am sure that only by keeping abreast of the developments, the activities of each of us and by updating the situation together could we ensure the best in this area. Your initiative is one of those where we can contribute to a major change through small interventions. The Department of Trade Reserves has been operational since 1996 and has been concerned about the design, use and use of state supply reserves, namely the creation of mandatory oil reserves and its derivatives. The primary task is to provide supplies of essential food and non-food products necessary for human life and with the strategic raw materials and reproductive materials necessary to ensure production or of particular importance for the defence of the country. At the time of the epidemic, the importance and role of the institution and basic supplies were demonstrated. You have correctly observed the importance of the relevant stocks of basic foods, but the institution already has in stock a basic supply of foods that are also suitable for patients with celiac disease. These are primary rice, meat, of course other basic foods such as milk, dairy products, sugar, oil and other. As soon as your initiative was taken, the Institute contacted representatives of companies holding state stocks of flour and pasta, Zito, Milnotest. Together, they found that there was a real possibility that part of the flour stocks would immediately be restructured into gluten-free flour, namely simply by replacing it within existing stocks. Given the fact that business partners store and restore only smaller quantities of gluten-free flour, they will try to supply up to 20 tonnes of such flour as soon as possible. Arrangements for the implementation of the replacement are already under way. This existing food set, as set out in the five-year programme for the creation of state supply reserves, ensures that all residents are provided urgently in emergency situations. Now that the stocks in addition to the existing ones have been further supplemented or updated with gluten-free flours, I can say that we will also be properly established for this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u181	Dear Minister Zdravko Restoršek! On behalf of the Slovenian Society for Celiac, the Celiac Society and all patients with celeriac, I thank you from the bottom of my heart for listening to my efforts and for providing urgent and gluten-free food in stores for them as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, is there anything else you'd like to add? No, no, no. Thank you. Member Rudi Medved has the floor to ask the Minister of Public Administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u183	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! It is 25 years since we have organised a national administration in Slovenia in the way that we have approached people the most. Because administrative units operate for so long, 58 of them are relatively well rounded to cover the entire territory of Slovenia. Relatively soon after the establishment of administrative units, it turned out that somehow the services of the state administration would be closer to local offices, this is with smaller offices, which were then established by administrative units where this proved necessary. In the best times, this is a good 15 years ago, there were some more than 200 such local offices, more specifically 201, and then the trend of the abolition of local offices started and its peak came right in the previous term, when your client’s minister shut down about 30 – I think some more – local offices, all together with an excuse for rationalisation. In fact, each abolition of each office means a certain blow for the people in that area. Local offices also have a symbolic meaning, after banks have withdrawn their offices, businesses, irresistibly throughout Slovenia closes the Post, these local offices have remained somehow the only ones, which means at a symbolic level that the state has not forgotten about people at every end of Slovenia. Dear Minister, since it is heard that the pressure to close local offices has reopened, I wonder: How will you, in principle, act in cases where, if you are not already present, you will find a whole lot of requests to close local offices on the table?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u185	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, honourable Member, for the question. First of all, in principle, from the point of view of the business with the parties, I will take various forms for the customers of a friendly, direct and also modern electronic way of operating and operating administrative units and all other public administration bodies. I will certainly, as Minister, support the establishment of local offices wherever necessary, in a prudent and reasonable manner. But I don't see the need to open up across the board just to pick up any political plus points in the local environment. There are also local offices whose adequacy of existence is questionable, since there is no interest of the parties and they prefer to head to the seat of the administrative unit to which the local office belongs. This is also information from the field, and we also see this in administrative units, where it often happens that, for example, domzałska is very visited for Ljubljanans. Above all, what I want, what I will stress in my mandate, is the use of the eGovernment system. This is one of the most successful and effective electronic business systems of customers with administrative authorities. It is easy to use, with its use we can do a lot of procedures from home. This has proved to be even more important in this epidemic. Unfortunately, in recent years, too little has been done to make it popular in my opinion and I will fix it. However, as it is said, the system proved to be very effective during this epidemic. The business of eGovernment clients has increased dramatically, four times, from 15 000 to 60 000, as well as the number of registered users, so the increase in monthly registrations was from 2 000 to 3 000. Some new additional services, applications, were also introduced. E-Identity was facilitated, i.e. without a digital certificate. For the sole solidarity assistance of students, applications were submitted electronically. This certainly provided customers with a more friendly, as well as for us as operators of a transparent system. I do not yet have concrete initiatives to break up on the table, but we will certainly deal with everything when it comes to them.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u187	Thank you very much. I spoke mainly about preventing closure, not so much about opening, although it is true that in the past two years or a year and a half we have also opened up a local office. And believe that in local communities, in this particular local community, you will be very happy to know that even when you go to Slovenia and promote the eGovernment, many will say that another whole generation will be quite attached to physical contact in administrative units. And some of the services themselves are, we both know that, for now, even more electronic than digitised, and when you can only do something half-time at home, then you have to go back to the administrative unit, you haven't done much. I see you're more inclined to lock up than you are not. The chiefs of the administrative units are going to convince you everywhere how irrational the local offices are. Mr. Minister, I am also interested in moving the Ljubljana Management Unit to the location behind Bežigrad. We also set up the concept here that, when the administrative unit moves to the central location, four or five locations across Ljubljana still remain offices for those most urgent tasks, because it was simply this decision of the previous minister to get it all together for Bežigrad, without parking places and everything, at the time a little unwise and we tried to at least partially save the pressure on this location.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u189	Thank you. As far as termination is concerned. I looked at the statistics, it must be familiar to you, because last week you called for the Administrative Units Service and you probably have this statistics, but I would still say that, let's say in 2014 no local office was abolished, in 2015 there were indeed 10, 2016 nine, and then this trend calmed down, 2017 three, 2018 one, last year was no one. So I always say rationalization has its limits. Anything concrete would be difficult, but I think a lot of rationalisation has already been done. What is crucial is that there are 97 local offices in Slovenia, which together with 58 administrative units covers 155 different locations. This is practically three quarters of Slovenian municipalities. As far as the administrative unit of Ljubljana is concerned. This will work in two main locations after reorganisation and relocation, namely Vič on Tobacco Street and Bežigrad on Linhart Road, where there will also be a new seat of the administrative unit, and at the joint seven local offices – Dobrova, Dol pri Ljubljana, Ig, Medvode, Intranje Gorica, Škofljica and Velika Lašče – will be opened on July 1st. However, in the event of subsequent needs, we will adapt the business processes of the organisation and spatial deployment accordingly, or other alternative options will be provided to shorten the procedures, and so on, as has been said, we do not have information on the need for some additional local offices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Bear, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u191	Thank you very much. In that case, I wasn't talking about local offices. I know how many local offices operate in the wider area of Ljubljana. It is essentially the unloading of these two central points, which you mention, with several offices, not local offices, at several locations in Ljubljana. Of course, there hasn't been a need to hear from the field yet. It will take a moment to move to these locations together and people will start looking for these services. That's when these needs will show up, so I asked you whether you're going to keep this concept or if you're going to do this move in a different way. However, due to the interest of many local communities and also to the inadequacy of how or how much the country should be dispersed and close to citizens and citizens throughout Slovenia, and because the local communities feel a very strong need for the country to be present in individual areas, they would suggest that we also discuss this subject at a meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 June, in the framework of the votes. We're moving on. Mr Matjaž Germany will ask the Minister for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mr Janez Cigler to the King. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u193	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, good afternoon! I am addressing you with a question from the Member States about one of the acute problems, the chronic problems in our society, I am talking about social work centres. You know the problem well. Now there are almost 30,000 applicants, in my places, i.e. in northern Primorsk, in Goriška there are almost 2,000 individuals and individuals waiting in line to receive proper care in nursing homes. In particular, I would like to ask you about the centre in Vertojba. We're talking about the Social Centre of Verteb. This problem has been known for almost 10 years. The state is looking for a way out of the situation, under the pressure of politics, the public is also exposed in your coalition contract as one of those cases that the government could handle in a very short time, along with the case in Osilnica. It is a nearly completed facility intended for caregivers, caregivers, circus 120 beds are available. It is a circus of 40 protected apartments managed by the Nova Gorica Housing Fund. These 120 or more beds were to be managed by Herman, a company owned by DUTB, at least a few months ago. Dear Minister King, since this is a very big problem in our society, and at least in some facilities we have a possible solution in hand, allow me to ask you the following. Now that the epidemic is over and we can deal with real problems and given that beside the Backwaters, the Spindle is one of those locations where we could solve an acute problem in this environment in a relatively short time, I am interested: How, unlike your predecessor Klampfer, who faced this problem and pointed out certain solutions, do you see a further situation regarding the Social Centre? What is your view, and what are your solutions in this case, with a time stamp, if you can tell me today? Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr German, thank you for this question. Of course, at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we are aware of the increased need for institutional protection of the elderly and we are closely monitoring them. We see, for we know that for 15 years no government home has actually been built for the elderly, but at the same time no concessions have been awarded or carried out as could be. I personally took note of the topic of the Social Centre of Vrtojba, including when visiting the home of older citizens of Nova Gorica in May this year, together with the Ombudsman. As you said – perhaps for some background – the building of the Social Centre Vrtojba was built by a private institution for the construction of the Social Centre Vrtojba, which was established by the Municipality of Šempeter - Vrtojba and a private partner. Within this social centre there are two facilities, as you have already mentioned. In the first building there are 120 beds for home protection and in the second building there are 38 apartments provided. The construction began in 2008, but later, following the findings of the municipality in 2011, was discontinued due to poor investment planning. Due to outstanding debts, these properties were transferred to the Company for Bank Claims Management, the so-called bad bank. Of course, I am committed to meeting the commitments of this government under the coalition contract, which includes the construction of five houses and the completion of the two unfinished ones that you mentioned, the Vrtojba and the Osilnica. I want to solve the problem in an integrated manner, so I started activities at the Ministry as soon as I took up my mandate in spite of the epidemic to provide additional capacity in nursing homes. I can say that we are currently in the stage when we already have a picture drawn, how could we complete this particular home in Wroteba as soon as possible. One option is that which you mentioned, which was in the past, before I took responsibility for the management of the ministry, to find a partner who would apply for an invitation to the Ministry of Labour to work for concessions for cities in older people's homes. As you said, the potential partner has already been interested, and it is also an existing provider of institutional protection for the elderly, who is supposed to be trying to obtain a concession. It is, of course, in the same situation as all others who will apply for a tender. The invitation to tender for the award of concessions for the performance of institutional protection for the elderly will be published, as I have already said several times, in June 2020. This invitation to tender shall provide for a call for concessions for 110 seats for users of this service. On the other hand, we are also looking for resources or the possibility of perhaps completing this home and then opening it up as a state home. There is also this possibility, and therefore it is still difficult for me to talk about the timeline. We will, of course, do this in the shortest possible time, because, as you yourself have said and as we know, the need for care in homes, cities in homes is a pressing topic and a very exposed topic. And even now at the time of the coronary epidemic, this has proved to be true. If the Spindle were to be resolved by applying for concessions by a potential investor, the dynamics of the construction depend mainly on the investor, since the time-limit for the start-up plan must be included in the documentation at the time of the call for tender. In the event of a concession for the implementation of the institutional protection of the elderly, the investor shall then provide the financial resource for the construction or completion of the concession. We are working to find a solution here as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. German, would you like to complete your question? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will comment more on the words of the Minister of the King. Social Democrats are the party that advocates an integrated approach. Of course, if we could choose and find the means to do so, it is our first choice to be a public institution, because we are aware that a quality and accessible service is needed for all citizens and citizens, and this can best be done by the state if funds are found for this. Allow me, Minister, to thank you for your answer, I must say that I prefer a second solution, so that in the framework of the most likely public institution of Nova Gorica we would have a new home for the elderly or the centre for social work. However, under the circumstances, given that the facility itself and the needs are exceptional, it is also an acceptable solution. Minister, thank you for your answer, and I hope that your words, or first or second, will rather see the light of the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Is there anything else you'd like to add, Mr. Secretary? No, no, no. We're moving on. Mr Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalšk and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mr Janez Cigler King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u199	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Koroška, Štajerska and Prekmurje are quite specific in economic terms, as they are dominated by lower value added among larger companies and are also highly export-oriented. Entrepreneurs and businesses in this area, called Koroška, Prekmurje and Styria, are cautioned and some are also publicly complaining that the State's assistance in solving these problems has been recognised and largely ineffective. At least until 15 May, only €350 million of aid was paid out of the first anti-Korona package. By the end of May, only 3.4% of all credits had been suspended under the law governing the deferral of payment of credit obligations. However, the State guarantee scheme remains unused. In April, the European Commission carried out one survey involving all EU countries. In fact, they asked the participants whether they had permanently or temporarily lost their job during the pandemic. According to these survey data, the epidemic of workers in Slovenia is expected to hit Greece the most immediately, as 36.8% of respondents replied that they had permanently lost their jobs or that they had cancelled their employment contract. In Greece, however, workers and workers replied that 41.8% had been permanently unemployed or without a contract of employment. Then they followed us or in this case they were better than us Italy, Croatia, Austria, Germany. The ministers who are here, I ask: What is your view of solving the problems of companies in Styria, Prekmurje and Koroška? Do they have any more concrete data, or even unemployment data, on the number of companies that have opted for the first two crisis packages? If so, please introduce them to us here today. I want to know: How many companies in the area have actually received or benefited from aid from the first two crisis packages? If we take this crisis as an opportunity, then in my opinion very sustainable restructuring, certain robotics, digitisation are certainly a step in the right direction. At the same time, I do not think it will work without the active role of the state. That's why I'm also interested in: What are your visions in terms of solving unemployment or businesses in the area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Who wants a word first? Mr. Restoring. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u201	Dear Member, Mr Boštjan Koražija, President, Comrade Minister, Members, Members of Parliament! Thank you for asking. I am pleased that we are united in the desire of a stable, favourable business environment for the economy in Slovenia, and I am the first to represent the equilibrium of the situation in all regions. In our ministry, we pay particular attention to regional development and statistics say that the tool for monitoring regional development is the developmental hazard index calculated by Umar. The development threat is highest in the Pomurska region, which is almost 56% above the Slovenian average, in the Podravska region by 17% and in Koroška by 12.2%). Statistics also show that the region of Koroška, the region of Pomur, is lagging behind in the share of enterprises in the region and that both regions are also in the tail with respect to the added value of the employee. The main regional policy instrument in this financial perspective is the agreement for the development of regions that we are implementing in all 12 development regions, where conditions and funding for the eastern region are adequately adapted and, of course, better. With the new situation created by the Coronavirus, we have adopted new guidelines for priority investment 3.1 Promoting entrepreneurship and reducing indicators, which is why we have made it easier to draw funds. In preparation, the measures to address the border problems of the areas envisaged for implementation in January 2021 will also address the areas that you, Mr Member, raise in your questions. Currently, in the area of those regions, there are also two invitations to tender for those municipalities belonging to that problem area. The Slovenian Enterprise Fund signs microcredits for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises amounting to almost €8.5 million and the Slovenian Regional Development Fund from Ribnica offers favourable development credits for micro, small, medium and large enterprises amounting to €7 million. The Slovenian Regional Development Fund will additionally call for loans to overcome the liquidity problems of these companies for an additional EUR 26 million. In addition, undertakings from the areas mentioned above are targeted at all measures provided for in intervention laws that allow jobs to be maintained and liquidity secured by waiting for work and working time. In addition to the measures taken at national level specifically to overcome the consequences of the epidemic in anti-Korona packages, other forms of aid not linked to the epidemic or those areas are available to companies there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, Comrade Minister, Honourable Member of Korazi! Thank you for this question, because it also concerns my native Koro region. Believe me, I know what it means to come from the outskirts of Slovenia, where sometimes in Ljubljana they seem to have forgotten about you. Let me assure you that this government sees these challenges very much on the contrary. In my work so far, as Minister, I have visited quite a few of these areas that you have mentioned or could be called peripheral, which I will certainly continue to do, because I think it is very important that we strengthen the regions and show their people that we hear and work for them. I have visited Velenje in person twice, once with Minister Restovalski, specifically because of Gorenje. We all then immediately launched activities, activities to find solutions for these exposed areas. As you may have noticed, there are signals from Gorenje that with our insistence or calls, offers for soft methods of approach Gorenje, at least for the time being, shows at least some success. Hisense predicts the start-up of television production, where workers who would now be unemployed for all their reasons should be given priority. Otherwise, we have prepared a strategy for short- and medium-term action. To this end, our services have also met with colleagues from the Ministry of the Economy and have agreed on enhanced cooperation for this purpose. With regard to the effectiveness of the measures, I would say that measures, at least according to our data and responses to the economy and trade unions, have now responded very successfully to these responses and have significantly reduced the inflow to the unemployment register, which would have been considerably higher without the measures taken in the anti-korona packages.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Korazia, would you like to complete your question? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. I think it would be wise, instead of solving private companies with subsidies, for our private enterprise to encourage with capital injections, as it has become more than obvious after this crisis that it would be necessary to support certain companies. In this way, companies could be given the means to maintain production and jobs and the country to participate in the profits and equity of the company. State aid must be primarily aimed at preserving and creating new jobs and not subsidising profits. That's why I want to know: What is your opinion as an economic minister on the crisis resolution strategy, as I have just presented to you? Do you have any other options for this? What can both ministries do through economic diplomacy and through diplomacy, as is done by the Minister of Labour, to what links can be made in the euro area? Are there any more recent data on European funds to obtain certain new EU funds for employment and the economy? If you have any information on this, can you present it to us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u207	Thank you. In addition to what I said earlier, make it quick. We've got three more steps. Slovenian Enterprise Fund and SID Bank Spirit Slovenia, where it is a source of funding that allows small, micro and medium-sized enterprises to survive this crisis. I'm not going to exactly distribute these matters, but that's enough. Another time. It is that all these areas that you have mentioned are at the same time borderline problems in the areas and it is our task as countries to create competitive business conditions for investment in these areas in productive jobs. From this point of view, we are preparing another additional measure, a law to promote investment in these areas, where Slovenian and foreign investors would be allowed to make investments easier and stimulate them to invest in these areas, not elsewhere, because we believe that these problems will remain empty, whether in the south or in the north or on the eastern border. We intend to come up with a comprehensive package of measures to encourage the development of entrepreneurship and to make it possible not all to concentrate on migration of day migrants into three, four larger Slovenian cities.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Brickler King, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. At the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we have also taken an active approach to resolving these situations. Among the measures we have taken or strengthened are, for example, measures aimed at providing additional knowledge and competence to those who are already unemployed, as well as measures aimed at those whose employment is threatened and threatened with job loss. And that is precisely what is important – to prevent job losses or to enable employees to acquire new skills that provide them with greater opportunities to obtain new jobs. I expose the SPIN project, for which more than €2.8 million are earmarked for the entire Eastern cohesion region, including the Charter of Career project with the potential to address the particularly endangered region of Podravje. The Employment Office is already implementing an active employment policy programme We are training locally, aimed at training the unemployed for the deficit professions in order to improve their employment opportunities. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u211	Thank you. All those who have met me in these two years, you know that I am a man of cooperation and inclusion, and in view of the current situation in the country, I would suggest that we discuss this issue one broader debate in the National Assembly. In fact, it was not bad to really put once in a row all ideas on the economy, on employment, on other matters. Above all, we should include specific expertise and should give the opportunity to concrete needs, problems and proposals of all workers and workers working in the economy and in the economy, so that they can tell us their problems and their problems here too. The key objective of all these intervention measures, so-called PKPs, anti-Korona packages, should be to maintain and save jobs and, unfortunately, unemployment is on the rise. That is why I think it is right that we should have a broader and longer debate in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 June, in the framework of the votes. We're moving on. Mrs Jerca Korče will ask the Minister for Finance mags a question. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye! Dear Minister of Finance, Mr. Shircelj! I am really interested in a very precise answer to very simple questions. I'm asking you: By 12 June, we are talking about Friday, how many companies had received a loan under the Law on the provision of additional liquidity to the economy to mitigate the consequences of the COVID-19 epidemic? What is the total amount, i.e. the total amount of these loans? In fact, I want from you, and we will be able to close very quickly, just two specific numbers. So how many companies and what is the total amount of these loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u215	Thank you very much for that question. Under the law providing the guarantee, companies have not yet received loans, in fact no credit. It is a matter of waiting for the opinion of the European Central Bank with regard to a sub-legislative act or regulation to regulate it. Otherwise, companies have, of course, received other loans that have already been discussed here. And here I can say they're up to 30. 4. 2020 received 23 billion 436 million loans, a little more than in the same period last year. Similarly, loans were given to households, and approximately the same indices were given to households as to others. However, the loans they received have already been mentioned before me by Minister Restovalšek, both by the SID of the Bank and by the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, other funds, they also received insurance. As soon as possible, we expect them to receive loans also on the basis of this guarantee scheme that you have actually asked about.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Madam Members, would you like to complete the question? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u217	So, what we're talking about now is two specific numbers are nothing and nothing? So can we say that, so far, this two billion-dollar scheme of yours, with which, last but not least, everyone likes to be praised in public, by the Government has failed completely and is inoperable and not attaining its goals? I'd like to ask for a supplement here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u218	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u219	This scheme is actually set by the end of this year, so we cannot say from this point of view that it failed. But it is true that it takes a little longer to get all the right opinions. You know that each such opinion also requires the opinion of the European Central Bank. This is mainly the issue of the so-called difficulty or that, on the basis of such an opinion, the Bank of Slovenia would give the so-called zero weight weight, in other words, that such loans would not affect any increased capital adequacy, in short, that it is. There has been agreement with the Bank of Slovenia on this point and it is now at this institution that this will actually happen. We also note – and also the banks themselves – that we are constantly in contact with banks – that banks provide money for businesses with other types of credits. As I have already mentioned, the country’s credit activity did not fall completely with respect to the same period last year, according to 2019-2020, when there was actually no crisis during that period. And that's not the least of all public information.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mrs. Korce, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u221	Things can be explained differently, but businesses and our economy need this help immediately. So, this scheme is a dead letter on paper to this day. Apparently, you've been planning things poorly or whatever. I hope and believe that this matter will be properly rectified and that companies will get it if it is not too late for that. However, I think this topic is important enough to have a general debate on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Your proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We're moving on. Mr Aljaž Kovacič will ask the Minister for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mr Janez Cigler the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u223	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Sam will ask you a question about personal assistance. I believe that you know this subject very well not only as a minister now, but not only have you been an expert member of the parliamentary group that submitted this law to Parliament, a law that entered into force 1. 1. 2019 and was adopted by a large number of votes in Parliament. Although we all agree that this law has been very necessary, especially for users who have been very anxious for many years, it has proved in practice that there are many shortcomings in the law. The biggest drawback was that, as a proposaler, you completely missed the financial assessment. The estimated costs of this law were, if I am not mistaken, around €8 million, according to some data, costs today would be around €70 million. As for the growth of users, I also think that they have exceeded three times the number planned not to talk about espies themselves and some family companies, which are referred to as some major infringements of this law. As your parliamentary group or party from which you come from, the New Slovenia Group requested, at the beginning of February 2020, a reference to an extraordinary meeting of the Social Committee on the topic of unacceptable abuse of the personal assistance system. There were also four conclusions on the preparation of a new law and on what was wrong with the law. For you, Mr. Secretary, I have two specific questions. I want to know: The amount of funding was from 1. 1. 2019 so far intended for the Personal Assistance Act? When can we expect a new Law on Personal Assistance? This is of particular interest to me – because we know what the procedure is, first of all, the law goes to some public hearing – when Members can expect this novel in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Member Aljaž Kovacič, thank you for this question. As you said, the Personal Assistance Act entered into force on 1 January 2019 and regulates the right to personal assistance and its application. This is a very important law that has allowed for equal opportunities, greater independence, activity and equal inclusion in society for all in our society, in accordance with the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. You mentioned that the projected financial result was much lower than what actually occurred in the implementation of the law. At that time, the financial impact assessment referred to or relied on the prediction of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Protection. In fact, in Slovenia we do not have a more competent institution for such analyses and forecasts, so it was obviously not possible to anticipate so much greater financial implications. The fact is, even my predecessors, the team did not respond adequately to these challenges or shortcomings that emerged in the implementation of the law when they appeared. So they didn't react fast enough. In one and a half years of implementation of this law, we have detected certain shortcomings. You've already mentioned some of them. He also drew attention to the majority of the members of the National Assembly at its 35th emergency meeting this February. Still, it was before taking responsibility for the ministry. In this regard, we immediately ordered or immediately ordered my predecessors to evaluate the introduction of the Personal Assistance Act, which has just been completed and will be in line with the Committee's decision, as you yourself have mentioned, to be sent to the National Assembly, so that you will all be familiar with it. The Ministry of Labour also ordered an amendment to the evaluation tool to assess the needs for personal assistance services. For you know that, above all, experts on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons have been united that the evaluation tool is currently not appropriate. In addition, training will be provided to members of the professional commissions and coordinators of disability protection for the use of the tool. In September and October 2019, 24 disabled coordinators were employed at social work centres. The task of these coordinators shall also be to coordinate and monitor personal assistance and to conduct procedures in the event of the replacement of the personal assistance provider. Operators of personal assistance shall also report annually to the coordinators on the implementation of personal assistance. Any application for incorrect implementation of the personal assistance received by the coordinators has also been verified on the ground. Since October last year, 337 visits have been made by users of personal assistance at home, which means that they have visited about 30% of all users. They report that users are mostly very satisfied with the service, as their quality of life has greatly improved, and some irregularities have also been identified. This year, at the Ministry, we are also preparing support for the implementation of personal assistance, namely computer support, which will greatly facilitate effective control — which is very important, effective control — of the provision of personal assistance services and the purposeful and transparent use of resources intended for the implementation of personal assistance. According to my data, the number of users of personal assistance services was 548 in April. The assessment prior to the adoption of the law was about 800, so it is not as high as you have named it. The average amount per user is around EUR 3 000 500 per user.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovacic, would you like to complete the question? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u227	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am pleased that you will make this fourth decision, as you said you will come to the committee at the right time and report, and your answer has gone, as far as I understand you, towards this report. Now I want to know: Do you possibly have the exact number, how much money has actually been spent to date, how many millions have been involved? In view of the fact that you have announced that you will come to the parental committee and also report on this decision in the field of the exercise of personal assistance, I would like to ask: Will you present only a novel on the committee or when it can be expected by Members of Parliament? So, these improvements that you found in the report itself. And perhaps an upgrade to a substantive question. I also met with these parents myself, including experts covering the area. I also want to know: What is your personal opinion, do you feel that your parent may also be a personal assistant?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much, Mr Kovacic, for this supplementary question. At the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we are aware that the Personal Assistance Act is vital to ensuring the independent life of persons with disabilities and their inclusion in society and represents great progress in the development of disability protection, so all our efforts, which I have already described, will lead to improvements in the current legal solutions to ensure the best possible implementation of personal assistance in favour of users. On the other hand, we must ensure that it is transparent, purposeful and effective control over the use of personal assistance funds. We have already joined the drafting of the Law, but of course we must, because this is an extremely important and sensitive subject, meet with all stakeholders, that is to say with users of personal assistance, with providers of personal assistance and other stakeholders. It is only in this way that this novel will be able to improve the provision of personal assistance services and provide adequate safeguards – and this is what we are talking about today in this Member's issue – that there will be no more irregularities or even possible abuses in the implementation of the law and that funds, as I have already said, intended for the implementation of personal assistance will be used deliberately, rationally and transparently. You asked me for the amounts. After months of this year, this is the amount, so to speak, in January 4.6 million, in February 4.8 million, March 5.6 million and April 6 million euros.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u230	Thank you very much. You have a procedural proposal, Mr Kovacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u231	Thank you one last time, Vice President, for your word. Thank you, Minister, for your answers, even for some numbers. At the end of the day, you said that the monthly costs were already almost approaching the figures, as the law had foreseen at the annual level. And because it is indeed a broader story, which also has a life-saving story for each individual involved in this personal assistance, it seems to me that it is in the best interests of all of those Members to come to know this and to discuss your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We're moving on. Mr Edvard Paulič will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandri Pivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u233	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister! Since 2015, we have a food supply chain with the Ombudsman in Slovenia. Its task is to maintain a sustainable food chain and to take care of its development. It is intended to highlight good practices and to draw attention to possible unfair practices. The Ombudsman acts unprofessionally, at least in my view, indicating a certain attitude of the State towards this important area. Each year he prepares a report on his work and for 2019 he has recently prepared it. The key finding of the latter, as well as the reports of previous years, is that in practice the Ombudsman has difficulty responding effectively to unfair practices because he does not have greater powers. It is some species, as the guardian himself has expressed himself, a toothless tiger. In view of the fact that one party is always in a subordinate position in the relationship between stakeholders, the practice of reporting unfair practices is less than it is in the field, as stakeholders are afraid of losing their jobs. The European Commission has also identified problems in the food chain. It notes that the partners in the chain are in an unevenly competitive position, as trade is a significantly stronger negotiator than the supplier and producer. The European Parliament has therefore adopted a Directive on unfair trade practices between undertakings in the supply chain of agricultural and food products. Among other things, there is a negative impact of unfair practices on the standard of living of the agricultural community. If ever, in this so-called coronary crisis, we are certainly aware of the importance of self-sustainment and I am sure that unfair practices discourage domestic producers from producing food and selling it to traders later. The elimination of unfair practices would therefore be one of the basic ways to increase self-sustainment in Slovenia. That's why I'm asking you, Madam Minister: When will we transpose into Slovenia the Directive on unfair trade practices between undertakings in the supply chain of agricultural and food products and to what extent do we know that the Directive has binding and non-binding content? What do you think the Ombudsman’s effectiveness in the food supply chain is?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u235	Dear President, honourable Member! First of all, thank you for the question that I think is touching a really important area. I think that the last situation, i.e. the epidemic that has been in Slovenia, has also made this issue more sensitising not only to Slovenia but also to the European and global public, who are once again wondering what food security is really like and what the related self-sustainment of a country is. It is true that in Slovenia the Ombudsman has been working in the food supply chain for some time now, and it is also true that he is not a completely toothless tiger. In 2019, within the framework of the AVK – Public Competition Agency of the Republic of Slovenia – we hired two persons who deal exclusively and solely with the area of identification and action in the event of the detection of unfair practices along or among the stakeholders themselves in the food supply chain. So these are two new jobs just for that purpose. As far as unfair trade practices are concerned, I must point out that Slovenia has introduced 23 unfair practices into the Agriculture Act a year before the European Directive and has thus become the first European country to implement them within its legislation. Therefore, this basis has existed since 2018 and is also the basis for this – given that it is legally defined – that it is, of course, implemented and is also appropriate for action where such unfair practices or relations within the stakeholders themselves are not appropriate. This is therefore already implemented in the Agriculture Act and has been implemented before the adoption of the European Order. As far as the food supply chains themselves are concerned, this is certainly a major challenge for our country as well. This is mainly because it is necessary to properly define the role of each individual shareholder in this chain, to properly support it within measures and then to ensure that the chain operates across the spectrum. If we focus solely and only on one shareholder of this chain, which we often do, then these chains do not work the way they should. Surely, however, they are key to the well - being and smooth supply of food to the population. Yes, it is often the most burdened first article in the chain, it is the primary producer or farmer, but it is also true that we must not neglect any other shareholder. It was now quite clear in this crisis that it was first those farmers who had not been firmly entangled within these chains that encountered problems. So when we have a producer on one side, perhaps an intermediate article of the cooperative, a food processing industry and, finally, a trader at the end of the chain. Where long-term contractual relations are established here, how often is it not at the best possible price that an individual can achieve on the market but is a stability? We are in the middle of planning or planning a new financial perspective for the period 2021-2027, and this area of creating solid food supply chains and helping each participant certainly represents one of our most important objectives, where we will also financially support all individual stakeholders and try to make these relations as solid and fair as possible. It is, however, a need for one collective consciousness, where each article in this chain must assume its responsibilities and also act in accordance with fair practices. In view of the fact that you have mentioned that the Ombudsman does not really have the right to intervene or sanction, I assure you that in the framework of these two AVK jobs we now have this responsibility. Finally, we also have inspection services within the Inspectorate for Agriculture, Forestry, Fisheries and Fisheries, which may, in the case of discovered unfair practices or possibly even carry out any unfair activities of these two services, intervene and sanction.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mr. Members, would you like to complete the question? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u237	Thank you, Madam President. For a little while. I am pleased that we both agree that the detection of unfair practices is an extremely important issue in this chain. We're probably talking about two things. We have defined illegal practices in the Agriculture Act, but the directive adopted by the European Parliament speaks of unfair practices, which is a somewhat broader concept and the deadline for implementation I think is 1. 5. 2021. In any case, this will have to be implemented into our legislation. If I still return to the Ombudsman's report for 2019. Practically all misconduct has been agreed upon, as it has been found. Contracts by traders are typical and are offered to the supplier by way of taking or leaving, and of course the supplier signs this because of its dependence. But that doesn't mean there's no inappropriate behavior. That is why one of the major problems the Ombudsman points out is also that he does not have the authority to look into contractual relations. The weaker side, these are generally suppliers, these contracts do not reveal because they fear the loss of business, and the contracts are in some way defined as contractual secrecy. At the end of 2019, the Ombudsman carried out one study. It turns out that a third of the participants are facing unfair practices. We now have two applications from the Ombudsman to the competition agency, and a third of the participants face unfair practices. So, something's not going together. That's why I want to know: How will you ensure that our self - supply of food does not go back because of bad business practices?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u239	Thank you very much, once again, for your word. If the Ombudsman has information that in one third of the cases of unfair practices or misconduct, he is also obliged to detect as many unfair practices as possible. At the same time, of course, I call on stakeholders, if they are not allowed to look into contracts – and this is a matter of relations between the two stakeholders – to report any pressure on them themselves, any force to sign a contract that is not in line with fair relations. For we can only react if we know or are alerted to these unfair practices, or if they are discovered by the Ombudsman in the food supply chain. We often run into the fact that the stakeholders themselves do not react, and only when the problem really escalates to the point of destroying any business relations or interruptions in general, do we find that these practices have been implemented for a long time. That is why the Ombudsman’s call to reveal them as much as possible, which is, of course, in our domain, to warn him. And secondly, individual stakeholders who are forced into such relations to report these practices. As has already been said, this is part of what needs to be done to strengthen chain relations. I must say that in Slovenia there is a series of very well-established chains that work well. I think that these are proof that they need to be established or strengthened in areas where these chains may not yet work. And this is often exactly where we are less self-sustaining, that is, in the area of fruit, vegetables, including pig meat, which has improved slightly in the last period, but we have not yet crossed the 40% limit. To identify where the weak links in the chain are, where these relations are not well established and to strengthen them in the coming period, that is certainly the key to reaching higher levels of self-sustainment in the deficit areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Mr. Paulic, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u241	First, I'd like to give you two explanations. I mentioned earlier that a survey was carried out in the stakeholder chain. This study was anonymised and therefore stakeholders also reported these unfair practices, but as I said, the Ombudsman filed only two AVK applications in 2019. In addition, the Ombudsman does not have any greater powers. You mentioned earlier that two people at the AVK are newly employed, which is welcome, but certainly the Ombudsman's application must come first. That's one thing. The other thing is that because of this dependence on suppliers of traders, it is not a matter of forcing them to sign a contract. These contracts are typical and suppliers are somehow forced to sign a contract if they want to have a business, although they are aware that they are unfair practices. I think this topic is particularly important in these times, so I propose that a general discussion be held at one of the next meetings of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Let's keep asking questions. Ms Andreja Zabret will ask the Minister of Finance of Magi. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u243	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to everyone and to the Minister of Finance! On 28 May, at its 18th regular meeting, the Government adopted an amendment to the Statute of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. The government as a assembly is, of course, entitled to amend the Statute, but the last amendment that has taken place is, in my opinion, a serious breach in the transparency of action, particularly with regard to the appointment of non-executive directors. The Government deleted Article 10a and this Article 10a was adopted years ago in the Statute of the DUTB and was added in particular to ensure greater transparency of action, to strengthen integrity and to prevent corruption. This was due to the fact that the DUTB account in the past had not seen any evidence of imprecise operation or even conflict of interest. As a result, certain criminal charges have also been lodged. Article 10a, as deleted, laid down the procedure for evaluating candidates for non-executive directors, carried out by the expert committee, contributing to the transparency and professionality of the procedure and to the possibility of selecting professional and competent candidates, complemented by already appointed directors. In addition, this deleted Article 10a also provided that the recruitment process and the selection of candidates for the newly appointed non-executive directors should be publicly disclosed. Of course, a few days later, something that would have been difficult to define as a surprise, the government, as I said, had resolved two non-executive directors a few days after the amendment of the statute without justification and appointed two new ones. Therefore, at the 21st meeting of the Committee on Finance on 3 June, I asked your Ministry's representative what was the reason for the deletion of Article 10a of the Statute, and I received the answer that this is a matter of, quote: "Adapting to a newly created situation that requires a faster appointment process." With such a response, of course, I cannot be satisfied, and I imagine that the public is not either. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: Why did the Government decide to delete Article 10a of the Statute of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims? Why did she immediately replace two non-executive directors without explaining the reason for the exchange?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. The government is also the sole owner of the Bank Management Company. And, of course, the Assembly sets out the statute, can amend it, can supplement it, can, this Statute in good faith, in particular, so that the DUTB acts in accordance with the law, the specific law which is adopted and under which the DUTB is also established, and also in accordance with the Act on Economic Companies, under which the Statute is actually the fundamental founding act of a company regulating the functioning of the DUTB. The procedure mentioned and completed in the last two or three years - previously, the DUB did not foresee such a procedure in the Statute - did not contribute to faster, more transparent procedures, but to the appointment and discharge of non-executive directors for a longer period of time. At the same time, it should be noted that the conditions to be met by candidates are laid down in the law. The law lays down these conditions and such a procedure may help justify the decision to elect between several candidates, which is certainly within the competence of the Assembly. The Assembly is in fact the one that sets out the non-executive directors. Non-executive directors play a role in this role because it is a single system, a role of supervisors. Such a procedure, which has in fact been established in the Statute, cannot replace the decision on the selection and justification for the decision of the Assembly. After all, in this case, the DUB Commission itself determines the DUTB’s supervisors, which is somehow, I will say – this procedure may be earlier untransparent, as these supervisors are supposed to be independent and therefore should not in fact be seen in any process of the company itself, where executive directors have a role to play. There is no evidence of a prior assessment of the procedure and in our view such a solution has not been a contribution to the transparency of the procedure. Especially in such a case where faster solutions must be taken in the economy, even in the case of the covida-19 epidemic, this has to be done and, last but not least, certain procedures have to be debirocratised. We certainly believe, once again, that such a procedure did not contribute to transparency, and for these reasons, Article 10a was deleted. Even with this solution that we know now, without it, the transparency of appointment is not reduced, and all the criteria that are clear are also respected. However, there are also clear differences between the role of non-executive directors and executive directors or other employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Do you want to complete the answer? [[Yeah.]] Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u247	Thank you for your word. Of course, the Government, as the Assembly, as I have already mentioned, has the duty or right to amend, supplement or, whatever the case, the Statute of the DutB, and it is always intended to act in accordance with the legislation defined by the DUTB and also the ZGD, as you mentioned. However, this procedure, which has been adopted so far – Article 10a was adopted in 2014 and to date there have never been any problems with transparency or with the longevity of the procedure. This Article 10a was adopted in 2014, as I have information. Above all, the question is why these two non-executive directors had to be replaced. No reason has been explained by the Government. Obviously, as far as the reasons for the exchange are concerned, we are wandering in the dark, and apparently I will not get an answer. In particular, I would imagine that you, as a person who has even run the DUB board, should strive to ensure transparency in the functioning and exchange of key people in such an important institution as the DUMB. Given that the Government has not explained the reasons for the replacement, I have an additional question. Minister, I'm also interested in: Are you going to continue with this practice of non-transparent at other key institutions in the country, such as SDH and the future demographic fund, which is expected to be established in a short time and should manage even around 11 billion assets? If you'll answer that, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Once again, the transparency of the appointment of non-executive directors with this amendment has not been reduced in any way and procedures are certainly less difficult administratively. These changes that have taken place in the Bank Claims Management Company have also been made in a transparent manner. Moreover, it was not possible here, after all, to have any impact, for example, on executive directors controlled by non-executive directors, on the influence of appointment and so on. The government, however, has been set up as an assembly under the ZGD. About the others. SDH has a whole procedure in the law, as supervisors are called. It is a two-tier system, not a single system, and the National Assembly designates these supervisors or approves these supervisors in SDH. Even in the new law or demographic, pension fund and so on, the whole process will be established. I think it's the same as in SDH, which means that the whole matter will go through the National Assembly in the most transparent way possible. So transparency here will certainly not be compromised.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u250	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Zabrett, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u251	Thank you for your word. Clearly, as far as transparency is concerned, we are not on the same wave duty. Nevertheless, by deleting Article 10a, transparency does not seem to be the same as it was before. In fact, with the deletion of Article 10a, it is no longer necessary to disclose publicly how the selection process has been conducted, so I am proposing all the questions that I have asked today, and in fact I have not received an answer, a general discussion at the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, in the framework of the votes. Mr Igor Peček, Minister of Justice, will now raise the question. Lilliani Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u253	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The distribution system operator of SODO shall operate an economic public service of the electricity distribution operator. On the basis of the Treaty on the rental of electricity infrastructure and the provision of services to the electricity distribution system operator, the distribution activity of the distribution company shall be carried out on behalf of the SODO. On the basis of the Regulation on maintenance works for public benefit in the field of energy referred to in Official Journal No. 37 Distribution companies are obliged to notify all owners of the property in which the operations are carried out in the context of maintenance operations on the distribution network prematurely. Through their own geographical systems, they cover the maintenance route and, consequently, the partial real estate numbers on the routes mentioned above. On the basis of these plot numbers, they can currently only obtain information about owners by hand by entering one partial number or data via the e-Court. As we know, there are a lot of preventive maintenance interventions on the entire distribution network in the country every year, and I think it would be useful to automate the information process of owners. Dear Minister, I ask you: Does the competent ministry plan to amend or supplement the existing system, such as upgrading of a portal or online service, where data on owners would be obtained through the transmission of a request for more parcel numbers and cadastral municipalities? So much for a start. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u255	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Member, Mr. Peck! Thank you for your question. I agree with you that this is a huge amount of data and it is pointless that each parcel is searched manually because I believe that this is an extraordinary amount of data that SODO needs to carry out its tasks. You do know, however, that the Earth Book is a public book, but it is limited to the constitutional category of personal data protection, and it is necessary to demonstrate eligibility in each view. In the Land Book Act itself, there is a way to get to a particular plot, a particular fact or right, whether real or bond. In the Land Book Act, however, there is an extension that can be obtained in a different way. It's 199th and 199ths. However, it is necessary to assess everything from the point of view of the protection of personal data when deciding on the issue of automated data collection, and this can be done in a specific regulation. I do not know which regulation specifically covers whether this is the Energy Act in this case or whether there is any other provision in which this could be regulated, but it is necessary to determine precisely the legal interest that this company has this legal interest, why it needs it, for which purposes it would need to be, and then it is simple to establish with the Land Book that such data can be taken over. We already know such a system in the Agricultural Lands Act, where they are acquired for agrarian communities. I can also ask the Minister of Infrastructure myself how he thinks if he sees this issue, and we can approach this issue because I think, as you explain, it makes sense as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u256	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr. Members, would you like to complete the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Thank you again very much for this first answer. Yes, as you yourself said, these entries are very large. Sometimes we know, for example, that if I limit myself only to an electric company or we know that in Slovenia there are five of them who perform this service, there are also thousands of 500, 2 thousand entries. I don't see any difference here whether for each partial number, someone manually enters on the portal and obtains ownership data or is it possible to automate this same process in a way where these ownership data for individual parcel numbers could be obtained at once. I don't know, I don't really know all the cases, but I do imagine that these companies are employing a large number of people who just type numbers and check ownership, and we probably both know the purpose, but they are changing in the ownership process and if the company doesn't notify the right owner in time, then these maintenance works can't be done on its land. That's also why ownership checks are made. Yes, thank you for your answer. If you can also check with the Minister of Infrastructure, I think the solution to the update would certainly be appropriate. In my opinion, at least in the case of them, which I have, it is not such a big intervention and then businesses will make sure that this other part is automated, so to speak, by merging documents and sending them directly to users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u259	I pledge that I will check all options with the Minister of Infrastructure and we will try to resolve the matter. Then we will give you a written answer if you agree on what can be done in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, can I get you anything else? Thank you. We're moving on. Mr Jože Lenart will ask the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Anžet Logar, and to the Minister without a department for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries, and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world, Dr. Helena Jaklitsch. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u261	Thank you for your word, colleague president. Dear Minister! Unfortunately, I can't say hello to Dr. Logar because he's not here. I'm surprised he's not here. I don't see an apology. Let's go to the question. Recently, we have received warnings from the Slovenian Consensus on Constitutional Rights of the Communities of Korean Slovenes and Slovenes and the Club of Slovenian Students and Students in Koroška, Celovac, Vienna and Graz, which point out that Austria does not fully fulfil the rights of the minority. This is particularly disturbing, since we are just before the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Koroška plebiscite. The Austrian State Treaty of 5 May 1955 is important for Austria in view of the re-establishment of an independent and democratic Austria, while for the Slovenian National Community, the Article 7 of the Treaty is essential for Austria and Styria. 7. Article 7 specifies the protection and protection of Slovenian national communities in Austria, the national community, which has decreased by 20% in the hundreds of years. In order to preserve the Slovenian minority in Austria, it is so important to preserve and disseminate Slovenian language through education and culture. The community of the Croat Slovenes and Slovenes in this place are particularly cautioned that there is still no system for bilingual kindergartens in the field of education, while bilingual education for the majority ends after human school. Another controversial issue is the financing of the Slovenian minority by Austria, as it remains at the nominal level of 1995. In the light of the 2011 agreement on the establishment of bilingual local tables, however, a worse situation is currently being observed than before the agreement. According to the judgment of the Austrian Constitutional Court, there should be a situation where several bilingual local inscriptions are placed, but unfortunately the situation is quite reversed – bilingual inscriptions are less than in 2011. The President of the Community of Korean Slovenes and Slovenk Bernard Sadovnik also wrote to the Austrian Prime Minister in order to draw attention to the current problem of the Slovenian National Community and to request that he carry out a package of measures for the Slovenian National Community. These measures were also unanimously confirmed by the National Council. The young generation of Korean Slovenians reminds us of the fundamental rights of minorities as part of a democratic state, as fundamental human rights. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister: What is your role and activities at the 100th anniversary of plebiscite in Koroška? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Just to be clear, Mr Logar apologized by 5 p.m., now it's almost 5:30 p.m. and he's really not excused. Only the Minister of State shall receive the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u263	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Member, Mr Lenart, thank you for your question, for which I also thank you, because it seems to me that at the 100th anniversary of Koroška plebiscite it is a topic that we must also open up in Slovenia. So I'm glad to hear that. In the beginning, I can say that the Republic of Slovenia hardly celebrates the 100th anniversary, given that 100 years ago we lost an important part of the Slovenian national body, which remained on the other side. However, this anniversary is, of course, an opportunity to look back and also a direction towards the future. As you have already warned or mentioned, there are still unrealised commitments made by Austria before plebiscite in 1920 and then by signing the Austrian State Treaty. Especially in 2020, when this year is the year of inter-neighbourly dialogue, it is important that we maintain or continue to foster dialogue, take care of these good neighbourly relations, and at the same time remind Austria of this failure to comply with the obligations it has towards our national community. On the inside, it seems important to me that the Republic of Slovenia repeatedly, says in all the bilateral talks it has, all of its ministerial colleagues, when they have these discussions, to point out that they are starting the issue, not only mention it, but also make a clear demand for a clear commitment that the rights listed by you and them in the letter of the initiative of the Community are indeed clearly and beautifully articulated, also have the support of the entire Slovenian community. It is also important that we, for example, go to our Korosci on Friday, this will be my first official visit, and I am also looking forward to this conversation – in this way I will express my support for their efforts towards Austria as well as for the Land of Korosca. Because they are the first ones to refer both to the country and to the government to realize these rights, which go to them as minorities, and at the same time to feel that they have all the support of our country, the homeland, that we are together with the forces. I expect that we will also take a real step forward in 2020 towards the realization of these rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u264	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Given the importance of this issue, I would like further. See, given the current situation of the Slovenian minority in Austria and the fulfilment of their rights in line with Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty, I am concerned about what will happen with the Slovenian minority in the future, especially at the moment when the Austrian government will focus primarily on recovery after the covid-19 crisis. This remains a concern to forget about Slovenian foreigners and thus to influence efforts to preserve the Slovenian minority in Austria. Thus, since World War II, the number of Slovenians has dropped four times in Austria’s Koroška. However, if we look even further, from the plebiscite period to today this number is even higher and is reduced by eight times the number of Slovenian minorities. At that time, hundreds of years ago, they spoke Slovenian in villages and did not know German. In the case of the German minority in Italy and southern Tyrol, it is possible to observe the correct respect for the rights of the minority, which led to Austria's conduct and efforts. History makes it clear that in southern Koroška, 80% of the Slovenian-speaking population lived 100 years ago. Today they fight for the Slovenian language, they fight for 30 minutes in the Slovenian language. What are the plans of the Republic of Slovenia to help respect the rights of the Slovenian minority in Austria in the future? I'm asking for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u267	Thank you for your word. Yeah, like you said, really, the assimilation in Koroška is huge. Also because, in the past, not only did our fellow citizens not have the opportunity to exercise their minority rights, but they have also been given in the past, especially after plebiscite, severe Germanisation, intimidation and also very much pressure. As I have already said, this support, which Slovenia must give to the Slovenian minority in its efforts to feel that it has all the support of its home country, is essential. At the same time, the Republic of Slovenia and its representatives must open these topics again and again at all bilateral meetings, with a clear expectation that the rights to be exercised under the Austrian State Treaty are being exercised. As you yourself mentioned, primary education, such as education, kindergartens, is very important where Slovenian language can be most strengthened or where children can learn Slovenian. Therefore, support for these structures by the Republic of Slovenia to the extent that we can give as a country without interfering with the autonomy of the neighbouring country. Otherwise all attention is paid, 100 years have passed, it is time for Austria to exercise those rights for which it itself has committed itself in the Austrian State Treaty, as you yourself said, in Article 7. You also mentioned the concern that even a 30-minute broadcast is not, we know, that the financing of the central Slovenian newspaper Novice is virtually taking over the Republic of Slovenia, thus retaining the Slovenian word through the newspaper, while Austria takes over only a small part of this funding, despite a different commitment in the ADP. The same is, of course, as you yourself have warned, in failing to increase financial support for the last quarter of the century, the indexation has not been carried out. And it is also right that Slovenia addresses these topics together with the Slovenian minority, with representatives of the Slovenian National Community to the Republic of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u268	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Member, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u269	Yeah, pretty much. Thank you for these specific answers. I see you know the situation. I am convinced that the issue of not respecting all the rights of the Slovenian minority in Austria at this time is very important, especially due to the importance for Austria in terms of the re-establishment of an independent and democratic Austria and, on the other hand, for the Slovenian national communities in Austria and Styria, that Austria finally recognises Article 7 of the Treaty, which accurately defines the protection and protection of Slovenian national communities in Austria. To speak two languages in this border area is the right and advantage for the development of the economy and the coexistence of the population and not an obstacle. For the participation of Slovenian politics, in particular the President of the State of Borut Pahor at the celebration of 10. Ten. 2020 in Celovac, it must be conditioned that the Austrian side fully implements Article 7 of the Treaty, as Slovenia intends to notify the Austrian State Treaty at the time of the 100th anniversary of plebiscita. For this reason, I propose that a general debate be held on this issue of the 100th anniversary of the Korean plebiscite. I see no reason for this debate not to be supported by all the Parliamentary Group of the National Assembly. However, since there is no Foreign Minister here today, Dr Anget Logar, I propose that he also, from his point of view, respond orally to this question, because it is true that we will not be late until the fall of this matter, and finally, what was the policy of 100 years ago from Ljubljana missed that this large part of the Korean Slovenians remained in Austria to correct today what is our task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u270	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The Minister will answer your questions at the next oral meeting. We continue and move on to the second round of questions of Members and Members. First, Mr Nik Prebil, who will raise a question to the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boštjan Koritnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u271	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Minister and Minister Hoys! This time, my question, Mr Koritnik, will be very substantive, will not go into political ideology, as regards the novelty of the Public Procurement Act. We know this is a very complex law. Last November, in the National Assembly, we adopted some additions to what is the new Law on Public Procurement Law, which, to a certain extent, certainly helps to improve the implementation of the Public Procurement Act. We've been talking about a change in the roof law for a long time. Even under the government of Marjana Sarca, at the time was Minister Rudi Medved, a Member of Parliament today, some more extensive discussions began on such a change. The proposals went in the direction of interoperability of supply completion and simplification of procurement procedures, simplification of procurement procedures for lower value contracts, the possibility of raising the threshold for construction, then re-introduction of a provision on the payment of subcontractors, professionalisation of contracting entities, greater responsibilities of directors of public institutions, an increase in the threshold for meeting the conditions of the tenderer in respect of paid tax liabilities and many others. Along with that previous law, which I mentioned, such a law would be even more operational and less bureaucratic. In this first part, I would like clear answers to the following questions: Are you inclined to provide further clarifications and to supplement or amend the 89th Article and to pardon the sanctions for the exclusion of tenderers from the procurement procedures in order to include them in the register of tenderers with negative references, that is to say, the amendment to Article 112 of this Act, which has been tabled by the Council of State? What concrete plans do you have with the amendment of the Public Procurement Act? Will you continue the reform in this direction, as outlined by your predecessor, or otherwise? What do you think the main shortcomings of this current arrangement are, and how do you plan to address these shortcomings? Are you also considering raising the threshold for ordering this low value or perhaps even raising the general threshold for the application of the Public Procurement Act? So much for the first part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u273	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr President Prebil, for that question. First very generally, then more specifically. This applicable Public Procurement Act was adopted in 2015 and removed certain procedural obstacles before some of the new developments. In 2018, it was amended at the initiative of SMC and SD members, i.e. amended, some additional measures for socially more responsible public procurement. At the time of the epidemic at the Ministry of Public Administration, some of these concrete changes that you have now mentioned have already been placed within the framework of individual intervention laws, notably as a lever to remedy the negative effects of the epidemic and to speed up the delivery of public procurement. The temporary increase in the threshold for the application of laws, the simplified regulation of the implementation of public procurement in municipalities, the provision of a corrective mechanism for the elimination of taxes – these were some of the solutions that we introduced in the first place to simplify the system and to enable faster placement of contracts in the economy at the time they were most needed. Of course, we are aware of the Ministry of Public Administration, which is also responsible for measures in the field of better legislation, the importance of stable legislation, and we believe that all these changes need to be addressed in a sound manner, not only at the legislative level. The fact is that there is a lot of criticism in public about public procurement in our country. It should be borne in mind, however, that the public procurement system is the primary area governed by EU law. Specific data also show that approximately 6,000 800 public contracts are awarded each year in about 17,000 units. Last year, this was the first time to exceed €5 billion, about 11.5 per cent of gross domestic product, and 241 audit applications were submitted. There are also 2 to 3 percent of complaints every year. So we can say that 97 percent of orders are delivered without any major problems or delays. The fact is that what you have mentioned is such a broader possibility of complementing offers, greater professionalisation. Above all, this increased professionalisation shows the fact that the procurement and bureaucracy of this system is mostly related to people, people working or participating in a particular system, rather than just legislation. In any event, the ministry's efforts will go towards simplification, as far as possible with regard to the regulation of the European Directives. We'll arrange for the professionalization of public procurement, the area of misdemeanours. However, it is clearly crucial that this is addressed in a broad public discourse, together with the professional and other public. As regards public procurement, it should be pointed out that, from the point of view of the OECD, even in the recent report of the Systemic Change on Public Procurement in Slovenia, we must be careful about these changes and that the key to a better system is the involvement of different actors and communities to raise confidence, this is a key issue, managing the risks of the execution of contracts and that public procurement should not be solely intended and subject to the framework of excessive formalism, as this brings, as is seen, inefficient and non-economic governance with public funds. There's a lot of emphasis on this professionalization, education. Of course, we cannot expect that any demander, or those who award public contracts, will be an expert, but I think that there will be much more to be done in this area, including in the direction of digital transformation of procurement procedures that will contribute to more efficient and transparent procedures. It is, however, a fact that, with regard to transparency of procurement procedures at the summit, we are assessed as very transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u274	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Prebil, you have a supplement to your question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u275	Thank you very much. I'd like to complete my questions. I agree with you, Mr. Minister, I read the OECD report myself. Transparency in public procurement is very high in relation to the European Union, regardless of some projects that are very public. I also agree that digitisation is necessary, although it is kind of sad that we are talking in 2020 about some of the beginnings of digitisation of systems that could already be digitised. Here I agree with you and I hope you will go this way. However, I would also like you to know that at the last meeting of the Committee on Internal Affairs, we have had to reject a proposal for a law that was put forward by the Council of State to amend the Public Procurement Act, which proposed a minor amendment to the law. That's why I want to know: What is your position on the suspension of the implementation of Articles 67, 67a and 75 of the UNSC as regards sanctions for labour offences, given what has been decided by the Constitutional Court? We know that there is no clear decision yet. In particular, how will changes in public procurement go? You said that some of the things the predecessor has already been able to bet on paper before you will continue, so I expect or wish such novelties to come before the Members as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u277	Thank you. With regard to the proposal of the Council of State to amend the Public Procurement Act or this amendment at the principal level, I have no reservations, but I always advocate that the matter be clarified, as you yourself have mentioned, the Constitutional Court has not yet taken a decision, it has suspended implementation. I would say that the position here is very clear — let us wait for the decision of the Constitutional Court and then act accordingly. As far as computerisation and digitisation are concerned, I must stress that we are very advanced in this regard. However, this is clearly a living process, new solutions are emerging, such as the development of a dynamic purchasing system instrument, where new bidders can enter into a contract at some point, and this, of course, increases competitiveness and lowers prices. The second thing we are already working on and is in the process of allocating European funds is linking the procurement portals and monitoring the implementation of the contracts themselves. This would, of course, raise transparency to a new level, despite the fact that, as we both have already established, the OECD report shows that this is already very much guaranteed for us. What will be crucial, therefore, is professionalisation, a simpler system, including the possibility of complementing offers, as you yourself have mentioned, which will once again increase competitiveness. For example, it is interesting, which is not positive, that the average number of tenders in public procurement has fallen over the last three years from 3.5 to 2.5 bids per procedure, which is certainly the case for a complex system in the EU, and also for a conjunctura, on the one hand, because data for EU Member States are similar. I think that the complexity of the public procurement system is an apple that will have to be bitten on a wider European level because we are facing similar problems, as we say. By comparison, procurement procedures average 63 days in Austria and 64 days in Austria, indicating efficiency. However, legal protection procedures are one of the fastest in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u278	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Prebil, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u279	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answers. Allow me to briefly explain my procedural proposal. Yes, the public procurement system is very complex, and the law is very extensive, and we both agree on that. Finally, it is correct and credible to take account of the European Union, we have decided not least to join it, and such a family also has certain rules to follow, and we comply accordingly with the directives and regulations that the European Commission has drawn up and given. However, we must be aware that, as a sovereign and independent state, we have a framework in which we can act alone and adjust it in a way that makes us more efficient, less bureaucratic and faster. There is also some room for improvement under the Public Procurement Act. I agree with you that there must be a broad public debate, that stakeholders, not least Members and Members of this Parliament, must be involved. In line with what you have said, I really do not see any problem in not discussing such a matter at a meeting of the National Assembly, and finally with our ideas we can help to improve and new objectives to be pursued by the Public Procurement Act, so, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly should hold a debate on this. In view of the fact that you said that we really need to talk about this, I expect that such a proposal will also be supported by your Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We're moving on. Mr Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister of the Interior, Mr Aleš Hojs, and the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Liljani Kozlovich. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u281	Your Honor, thank you for saying so. In this June, there will have to be parades of pride around the world, but we know why this year cannot take place – because of this pandemic or an epidemic of coronavirus. On 17 May, we also marked an international day against homophobia, transphobia and biphobia. Certain Slovenian media continue or continue to broadcast this hate speech against the community or against the minority of LGBT. And I also have to admit what personally made me most sad was that I, as a member or part of the LGBT community or a minority of LGBT, was actually also part of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. But let's leave this alone, I'm not gonna talk about myself today, I'm gonna talk about others or all of us. Slovenia is currently 20th in terms of the rights of same-sex partners. That's why I want to know: What is your position on the hate speech and discrediting of LGBT minorities, individuals and individuals who are planned and systematically disseminated by certain Slovenian media and online portals? Are you planning to change the subject area of hate speech? If so, which direction are you thinking, or what solutions will you propose? For the Minister of the Interior, my question is: How many reports and allegations of hate crimes have been made based on the victim's personal circumstances, in which case sexual orientation and sexual identity, in the last year? Have you seen an increase in these types of reports as part of the Coronavirus epidemic? Do you even keep statistics on such crimes? Does the police currently have any programme to educate police officers about specific risks faced by LGBT minorities or persons? Will you promote such education with vulnerable groups and in what way? But above all, I'm interested in what vulnerable groups. But I would also like to draw attention to the things that have been happening in the last year and even this year. Unfortunately, a good week ago in Maribor there was an incident in which a person who is also part of the LGBT community was severely physically assaulted, as far as I know. Last year, too, there was this infamous attack on Tiffany's club and also on the same-sex person in Murski Sobota. I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u282	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. First he gets the word, Madam Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u283	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Member, Mr Koražija, first of all, I would like to answer you, my personal relationship, which you have also asked, to an enemy speech. So not only hate speech, but also every inappropriate speech, is foreign to me, I am committed to the culture of dialogue, but in particular to respect all the differences in society. As far as legal regulation is concerned, how it is currently being regulated and how we think at the Ministry of Justice. We know that freedom of expression comes first. That is what the Constitution provides for, and as the only exception, defines the definition of hate speech as a crime at the level of law, and this is also actually done in Article 297, where every public promotion of hatred and intolerance is, therefore, a matter of particular concern to the protected categories, if I so designate them, including various sexual orientations, is therefore a crime pursued by official duty. But we have three other crimes, a threat, regret and slander, which are being pursued on a proposal. In the past year, the Supreme Court made one important step forward in the area of hate speech, claiming this crime, since there was no clear case law until then and consequently no State Prosecutor's case. It has been determined that there is no need for a specific violation of public order and peace or its threat, but that there is sufficient potential danger, which is a divide or more than what the legislator himself had in mind. What else do we have to deal with? It is possible to resolve this in the area of offence, because as a criminal offence it is already regulated, and as you have already said, it is possible to regulate this in both the Media Act and the Law on Public Order and Peace. The Law on Public Order and Peace and the Law on Offences, in particular the Law on Public Order and Peace, has already been passed in a single term in Parliament and has not been passed. This is because, among other things, it is necessary to declare the Internet public space so that an offence can also be committed there. Then it is necessary to give the police access, which currently poses a question of proportionality, because there is no doubt that a judicial decision is necessary to reach out, and the question is whether such a act can be directly identified. What are we thinking at the Ministry of Justice? This issue and other European countries have this problem, and we have already discussed this with the Vice-President of the European Commission, and she has referred to the fact that we are asking for a study funded by the European Commission, so that we can see how this area will be regulated. That's what we're gonna do right now. You said there would be so much discredit in the National Assembly. I believe that the adoption of the Code, which has been in Parliament, will make progress here. But the fact is that no legislation can regulate individual gays after lack of empathy, so there may be a need for a lot of action in the preventive area itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u285	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Member! I must also say that it is clear, of course, that the development of both online tools and social networks also strengthens this hate speech or all forms of hate speech. I must say that, of course, I do not support the segregation of monitoring or recording of hate speech on the basis of vulnerable groups, which, after all, does not give the police, or does not give the legislation such a basis, in order to measure only the hate speech towards one of the vulnerable groups. Therefore, of course, the data you asked about is not statistically possible, but is essentially statistically or analytically addressed to all such forms of hate speech. In view of the importance of this area, Slovenia has undoubtedly committed itself to persecuting hate speech, and it has finally done so in 2019 with the Resolution on the National Programme for the Prevention and Suppression of Crime, where in Chapter 6. Two, he's specifically talking about the persecution of hate speech. There is mostly the bearer of this fight against this speech by the Ministry of Culture. However, I can provide you with some data in 2015 to 2019 or until this year 2020, for this purpose, the police filed 11 criminal complaints in 2015 10, 2016 18, 2017 13, 2018 12, 2019 16 and this year. The infringements have taken place since 2017 48, in 2018 57, 2019 56 and 2016 14. I have to say, on the basis of your question, did things get bigger at the time of the co-vide, I have to answer [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u286	Thank you very much. You may have a chance later, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Member, would you like to complete your question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u287	Thank you for your word. These answers are very important to me today because of the functioning of the rule of law. The opinion and position of ministers of such important departments as the Internal and Justice Department, which has the most important repressive body under its auspices, are said to be the Ministry of the Interior and, of course, the justice department of the Ministry of Justice. Your opinion, thinking will also be the basis for your arranged or for our regulation of the area, which is in fact so specific and also problematic from this point of view, because simply, unfortunately, it is so that these are things that should not be but unfortunately exist. I think we'll all be able to pull together quite a bit in this direction and find some solutions for the future. And I have a question for both of you: How do you comment on the move made by the Hungarian government of Orban, which recently abolished the law on the legal recognition of sex and is unfortunately also known for this anti-LGBT rhetoric? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Who wants to take the floor? Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u289	I agree with you that there is still a lot to be done in this area. But I must admit, I don't know this Hungarian law. What's more, it's hard to comment. I've initially told you what my relationship is to diversity, and that's the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u290	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u291	If I continue, honourable Member, perhaps only what has probably not been heard before, so in 2020, no major hate speech was detected at the time of the Crown or more pronounced, vice versa, the matter has even been reduced. If you ask me personally, I am a great supporter of the social network or what can be done online in some way, of course it is not in our power, it is on the side of those who do these networks so that we cannot or should not actually express anonymous things. So personally, I am convinced that if you use the name and surname to know who this person is, of course, it is completely different from any hate speech to make or to give to anyone, or if you're hiding there under some anonymous nicknames, profiles, and so on. That would be one of the, I think, very big things we could do. Perhaps even as far as your question is concerned at the outset, I must say that the attack on Tiffany's place last year has unfortunately ended with a criminal complaint, but against an unknown offender, so the police have failed to find or identify the person who actually committed this crime. I must say that, in recent times, the President of the Government has said quite a lot of things, even in the police ranks, given that the prosecution has repeatedly responded to certain criminal charges, that there is no basis for such a criminal complaint or that these criminal charges have been dropped. Finally, the criminal charges of the last part, which was intended or which, according to my assessment, was not only offensive, but also in some way criminalized by the guards in Slovenska Bistrica, also said that there were no signs of crime in Maribor. As far as the police's involvement with NGOs is concerned, not only the LGTB, but with everyone else, I must say that the police are very much involved with these organisations. As you know, each year he or she cooperated or cooperated, that is, this year no matter what it was, even with the organizers of this parade that you named. Once again, segregation or division of hate speech against one or another vulnerable group is unacceptable. I think that hate speech is unacceptable to any group, and in fact it seems bad to me that we agree to separate hate speech from one group or another. I think it would be necessary to condemn everything, and the police will also work to prosecute all such types of hate speech.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u292	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Korazia, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u293	Dearly beloved, once again, thank you for your word. I say, the topic is so hot and difficult that it would actually be right for us to sit down for once in this National Assembly and discuss certain matters that concern us, even the LGBT minorities, so I also propose that we discuss this subject in this State. But it is true that this basic problem of presenting LGBT community in the media, in fact we are the same as everyone else, we are people with the same problems and with the same problems, I will say, with joy and also with the tears in your eyes that everyone else is experiencing, we have the same partners, we have the same concerns as everyone else. It might also be good for people to get to know the LGBT minority more and better than the community. We're not having any fun, and we don't want anyone to get hurt. But it's bad if you have to apologize a lot for being human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Your proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Let's move on, mag. Andrej Reich will ask Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar a question, which is a percentage, so I ask the Member to say whether he wants a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u295	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Of course I'll ask for an oral answer. My question is essentially about the set of rights, interpreting, market abuse, market failure and rational spending of taxpayer money. However, there are not two topics, the operation of grey eclipses in the elderly and access to dental protection services. The operation of the grey marble is one of the most frequently performed surgeries on the eye. Every year we do about 20,000 in Slovenia. As a rule, gray marble is produced after 55 years and most patients who need to be removed from the gray dark have already had one of the visual defects, namely shortsightedness, farsightedness, astigmaticism and antiquity. During surgery, i.e. the operation of a grey eclipse, the surgeon ocularist removes an existing lens that is cloudy and replaces it with a new one. The passport of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia is only entitled to the replacement of the lens. Thus, in case he wears glasses or contact lenses before the intervention, he will also wear grey ferrets after surgery, as the insurance company does not recognise the intervention, i.e. the replacement of the ordinary lens with the dioptria lens, which would be logical for the intervention. The patient is also not yet able to pay a possible price difference, i.e. between the ordinary lens and the dioptria lens. We are talking about an average of 25 additional quality years of life and savings for insurance and insurance companies. This is a measure that is clearly useful for both of us. And such an operation would allow people to read without glasses, to walk safely in the field, to live an active life, even not to be forgotten about the glasses while they sleep, and simply to soften them. Dear Minister, I therefore suggest that you sit down with a health insurance company and study this possibility so that these people who need a grey-skinned operation have the opportunity to have their dioptyria removed at the same time as this grey-skinned stalemate is removed. The second is related to access to dental services. We know that digitalisation and information is coming and that citizens are coming to me, who are simply not allowed to access dental services because of high prices. Remember, we have 3D imaging, we have 3D printers. It is simply no longer understandable today how 100 grams of zirconium can cost 10,000 euros. Can I have a comment, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u296	Thank you very much. In the next session, you will receive an oral response. Ambassador Matei Udovč will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for John the Bricker King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u297	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister! In the environment where I live and work, this is the area of the Municipality of Kranj, we face many difficulties daily in providing care for older citizens. This is mainly a problem of providing domestic capacity and institutional protection for older citizens. The town of Kranj has a circus of 57 000 inhabitants. With one home of the elderly, it belongs to the very top in the nutritional care of the congregations in the country. The proportion of older citizens in Kranj, over 65 years of age, is growing rapidly. According to the latest data, during the last 20 years there has been an increase of about 10% and now it accounts for about 19% of the total population of the Municipality of Kranj, that is, a circus, for the show, 10 000 477 people. In the area of the Municipality of Kranj there is currently only one pensioner's home, which has a total capacity of 212 beds and 30 places for daily protection and is fully occupied. At the hearing, there are a thousand 226 active requests for admission. There are 177 people waiting for immediate reception. In any event, they are faced with impossible situations in this area and it is essential that new domestic capacities are provided. In September 2019 a meeting was held at your Ministry, where the management of the municipality was a necessity to address this institutional protection of older citizens and proposals for a solution, but no concrete conclusions were reached. Nevertheless, the City Municipality of Kranj is carrying out activities to solve this problem. They prepared documents, identifications of the investment project for a new home, changed the OPN and reserved suitable land on the Golden Field. The estimated capacity is around 200 cities. They also have an additional space in the project process for a circus of 30 people in the new single day home of pensioners Kranj. It's your department's responsibility to handle the problem, so I'm asking you: Have you learned about the care of older citizens in the Kranj area? How are you going to deal with this problem? How will you solve the provision of capacity in Kranj? Is the resolution of the Cranium case already covered in the new buildings and the setting of homes for older citizens, as you have recently published? Will you approach the construction of a new home in the most underprivileged area of the institutional protection of the elderly in the country and take advantage of the proposed hand of the congregation and approach the construction of a pensioner’s home as soon as possible? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u299	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, Mrs. Viceroy. Thank you for asking this extremely important question, which touches on the topic of comprehensive care for the elderly. As you know, this topic is one of my priorities and priorities for the Ministry of Labour team in this mandate, as we are determined to ensure increased capacity for the care of older persons after 15 years of no new home for older persons has been built in this state. Indeed, as you say, the situation is acute, especially during the coronary crisis or during the epidemic. Immediately after taking responsibility and managing the Ministry, I took note of the increased need for institutional protection of the elderly and immediately launched activities to address this pressing issue. Thank you for introducing me to the increased needs or capacity shortage in the City Municipality of Kranj. I am well aware of these needs, and last but not least, my ministry is responsible for monitoring the regional coverage of the institutional protection needs of the elderly, which we are monitoring at the level of administrative units. At the level of administrative units and administrative unit of Kranj, there are no 166 seats at the existing capacity of homes for older Kranj, Predvor, Naklo and Taber until the target of 4.8% coverage for older people over 65 years of age. My aim is already this year, as we have repeatedly announced, to initiate procedures to provide additional accommodations in homes for older citizens as soon as possible, which will be ensured by the granting of concessions and the intensive use of European funds. As you know, there is also a clear commitment in the coalition contract after the completion of the two and the construction of five homes for the elderly. The call for the construction of 20 day centres and 10 centres for the temporary accommodation of the elderly is under way, where additional capacity will be provided. An additional invitation to tender for the award of concessions for the performance of institutional protection in nursing homes will be issued in June 2020. We are planning a tender for concessions for a thousand 100 cities. In 2020 and 2021, 504 additional seats will be provided in nursing homes on the basis of the previous invitation to tender. On the basis of this 2017 call, 424 cities have been realised in nine projects and 7 projects with a total capacity of 504 cities have not yet been implemented. We will extend the public network of institutional protection for the elderly, as I said, to an additional thousand 100 on the basis of an invitation to tender for the award of concessions, which is expected to be published this month. We plan to use the European Union's resources to support the provision of additional capacity for day care, deinstitutionalisation and care for older and other vulnerable groups in the future financial perspective 2021-2027. May I finally mention that the longest-term solution is the adoption of a long-term care law. Although the existing system of protection and care for the elderly in Slovenia is good, it is no longer sufficient in view of all the changing situations that you have mentioned in your question. We therefore believe that we need to upgrade it and our ministry to actively cooperate with the Ministry of Health, which is the carrier of the law, and we will offer all the necessary knowledge, expertise and assistance here. I believe that the lack of capacity in Kranj, which you have raised in your parliamentary question, will be a success under those measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u301	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. Allow me, on this occasion, to invite you to really see the lack of capacity both in Kranj and in the wider area of Kranj, to visit us and go together to the homes of the pensioners and see it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Minister, you don't need a response. Do you agree? [[Yeah.]] So we can keep going. Ambassador Primož Siter will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Cigler to the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u303	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Minister, hello! My questions relate to personal complementary work. This is, if I draw first the definition, the type of activity such as occasional assistance, occasional work, the production of domestic products, the collection of forest fruits and the other, in this group are the readings and others, to say in quotes, small craftsmen who produce souvenirs, products and so on, who are partially living with their work or adding this income to their monthly income from this minimum activity. At the time of the epidemic, all the fairs were shut down, these things are not sold in stores, so this group of former employees, I say, suffered damage, stopped their activities, so to speak, 100 % of their activities. But they still have to pay for the value of health and pension insurance. Because this is the key information that is most important for this institution to be used to a large extent mainly by persons who do not have sufficient or insufficient income from other benefits or who do not have a guaranteed survival, social security and that allows them some minimum income. Most of the operators are engaged in activities, trades related to public events and so on, which have fallen out of the epidemic. These people are without opportunity to work and earn as a result of social distress. However, the Government has so far not included in the aid packages in anti-korona packages 1 to 3 either with possible compensations or with the exemption of the payment of health and pension insurance certificates. Another key information is that this type of work is largely used by pensioners and pensioners who, after saying their low monthly income on pensions, knock that they can even come through the month. So I'm asking two questions: In what way will providers of personal complementarities receive assistance in future anti-Korona measures? What is the government's strategy and timetable for launching the seed area, particularly in the work that will include operators and contractors of personal complementary work, so that policy will not leave them alone again? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u304	Thank you very much. I give the floor first to Minister Zdravek Počvalski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u305	Dear Member, Mr Primož Siter, President, Members, Members, Fellow Minister! Thank you for asking. This government has done a lot in recent months. We have taken many measures that in one way or another benefit citizens and the economy, and in particular protect our health and preserve our lives. Personal complementary work is, as you yourself state, an extra income for a lot of people, and it is also a hobby with which to earn something. Individuals who are unemployed, employed, students and students or pensioners may carry out personal supplementary work when notified through the Apes or the administrative unit. So they already have some primary status. That is why I can say that we have helped all these people through measures already taken by the Government. Various forms of assistance were received by the pensioners you spoke about, the students, the recipients of social assistance, even though we have asked for a number of criticisms about why they were also receiving assistance. I am equally convinced that the measures we have taken for the economy, such as tourist vouchers or vouchers, deferred payments, more favourable credits and other measures, will indirectly have a positive impact on the implementation of those personal complementary activities, which are very topical in these sectors, as you said. Semme. With regard to the implementation of domestic and international fairs, our ministry does not issue special permits for their organisation, but it is true that by decree we have prohibited the provision of goods and services to consumers. However, with the last release on June 1st, we have released or opened up all activities other than night clubs and discotheques. Of course, it is necessary to take into account all the government's existing decisions, including with regard to the collection in public places of the Ministry of the Interior. Above all, it is necessary to take into account and still apply, in all activities of the NIJS recommendations which are being renewed on their website. Unfortunately, we do not have a magic bullet and we cannot know in advance what the future epidemiological picture will be like and when it will occur or whether there will be a new wave. But each of us can contribute by acting responsibly and preventively and thus caring for one another. As I am aware, the organisers of the fairs, such as the Celje Fair, have decided to continue the activities of the fairs and call on exhibitors to cooperate, and our ministry will be among them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u306	Thank you very much. I'm also giving the floor to the Minister of Labour. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, Mr. Member Siter, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I must assure you, honourable Member, that we have provided assistance to all the inhabitants of Slovenia, to all the inhabitants of Slovenia, in the design of anti-korona packages, that is to say, to two million inhabitants with a value card or tourist voucher in Slovenia, mentioned by the predecessor, Mr. Comrade Minister of Vacation. I should also point out that personal complementary work is not about creating a basic status whereby a particular person acquires basic income for survival, but rather a status that can be combined with other statuses. It's a complementary job. In this context, once again, if personal supplementary work is carried out, as you mentioned, largely by low-retirement pensioners, the recipients were also a single solidarity allowance for pensioners of up to EUR 300 for pension recipients of up to EUR 500 and EUR 600 for pension recipients of EUR 230 and for recipients of pensions of between EUR 600 and EUR 700. In 2019, on average, 7 000 500 taxpayers performed personal supplementary work monthly, while all operators totalled EUR 2.7 million in revenue in 2019. I believe that the first, second and third anti-Korona packages have also covered well the needs or status of those who have performed personal complementary work.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u309	Thank you very much. When we talk about a group of people doing this complementary activity, I understand that there are people here who do this for a hobby, for a hobby, or for a bush or whatever, but here we have people doing it because they have low incomes because they have nothing left to survive. These pensioners are not much and are grateful that they have at least this option, although it seems to me personally unacceptable that a pensioner has to work to survive after 40 years of work, but fine. It's not about dealing with this, like the Minister of Labour, like you said, it's about some kind of interference with some fundamental status. No, it's about fixing the checkbooks from the beginning to the end of the month. This domestic art trade has collapsed, we understand that, and we can't point to anyone here. The products are not sold on the stand, the tourist offer suffers, these things are not sold in stores. The most critical thing is for those people who have the pension they have, and with their complementary work they flick it. I'll repeat the question: What examples are there for these poor, if I say so, defenders and other pensioners, pensioners who still have to live with the complementary work so that the epidemic does not plunge them into worse poverty in the winter and cold, just before the new year and Christmas, when they can breathe a little more with their work? What are the chances of these values being written off and given some additional help?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u311	Thank you. From my point of view, after analysing all those involved in this activity, not all are as affected as in the rest of the economy. So, in the first group, where it is the obligation to purchase valuations for service subscribers and where works should not be provided for a legal person, we are talking about assistance to the household, cleaning houses, residential rooms, maintenance of the relevant external surfaces, agricultural works, we can get to school, it is already difficult, they have remained in some way even during the coronary crisis. The other issue is then those who worked for legal persons because a legal person is obliged to take care of a valuer and there again depends on the sector itself. I agree with you that all those who are connected to tourism have been in total stalemate before the outbreak occurs, between it and now, when we have released the matter, this will only happen with the start of tourism in some way to one of the better old establishments. Here all these indirect measures are equally useful for this industry in the economy. I believe that, if there is any other stage, as you spoke about it, we will have to take extra care of this type of people, but we hope and believe that the economic revitalization will somehow bring this matter back to normal. Of course, not everyone here is equally affected, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Labour Janez Brickler King.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u313	Thank you very much. The purpose of the Government was to provide an additional source of income to all whose existence was threatened by the crisis, because they could not provide themselves or could not be provided with some of the basic income they were otherwise receiving and from which they were living. If I focus on, say, a pensioner or a pensioner who makes domestic art products through personal supplementary work, because you have highlighted this, I can say that this particular pensioner is a pensioner, say, 450 euros, received 300 euros of the single solidarity allowance for pensioners and 200 euro of the value or tourist voucher in Slovenia at the time of the crown of the crisis. This means 500 Euros of additional aid, which is practically one pension. So I think we've given the right answer. But we certainly have this group of people in mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u315	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, the matter is in fact very simple. The government would simply write off the payment of these values to those people who still have pensions by way of writing off their espionage contributions. But unfortunately, governments are now traditionally forgetting pensioners in Slovenia. The more vulnerable they are, the less a solution is offered by politics. Indeed, pensioners have been in the most insurmountable situation, given that those who have contributed 40 years have built everything the whole society can enjoy, and now they have to work in retirement to survive. Therefore, a number of them take on this complementary activity to at least a little alleviate this social distress, but, therefore, it is necessary and experience to work, sell, stand, endure the cold and so forth, which is of course not fair, especially for a person who could simply enjoy peace in retirement. If this government does not have a strategy to eradicate poverty among pensioners, at least it should not have to deepen between them, at least for those who have accepted what I say is a cruel reality and have themselves engaged in the search for solutions. That's unworthy. It's a solution. I suggested a solution. For example, if the state has money to save banks, if the state has money to equip the anti-protest army or fly-over aircraft, it is not the devil that it does not have money for pensioners, especially those who, in addition to receiving such a low pension, have to live with some complementary work. That's not fair. Therefore, at this point, I call on the Government, representatives of the Government, to remove in the next anti-korona package the hardships of these people, these workers' pensioners, in such a way as to ensure the conditions for their survival. However, I call on the National Assembly to hold a debate on this subject at its next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u316	Thank you very much.Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. She will be the last to receive the word of Ambassador Violet Tomić, who will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandri Pivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u317	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Madam Secretary! In the light of your visit to SIDG on 4 June 2020, you stated to Work that the new management of the company must prepare a new strategic plan, which will be confirmed by the Government as the owner of the meeting of the company in order to allow for greater investment in the timber centre on Sneznik. As you know, the company already had a strategic plan that envisaged the establishment of as many as four timber processing centres in Slovenia. Article 7 of the Forest Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia which entered into force 13. 2. 2016, the objectives of forest management are defined. In point 2, the law states: “To contribute to the creation and development of forest-forest chains, the promotion of wood and wood products and the creation of green jobs.” In Article 9, the law allows the company to organise timber collection or processing centres and create development conditions and establish forest-forest chains with as much added value as possible. However, Article 10 allows the company to rent loans with a guarantee of up to EUR 20 million for the organisation of these centres. In short, SiDG has not performed its tasks in the area of establishing wood collection and processing centres in all these years. That is why I drew attention to these commitments at the 11th meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food on 13 November 2019, where we also agreed, at my initiative, that “the Committee proposes to the Government”, I quote again, “as a SIDG Assembly, to order the company to start immediately with the construction of the four wood-processing centres identified in the strategic plan, and to place as a priority its basic activity, which is cutting, harvesting and selling timber, in order to obtain all the necessary machinery and employment of sufficient foresters, so that they can carry out their own duties up to 20% of the cut in normal conditions”. Now I want to know: When will we see this strategy for the development of wood collection and processing centres, which would be the impetus of the wood-processing industry as the central activity of the sustainable development of the country, which provides green jobs, including the realization of Slovenia's climate commitments? Does investing in Kočevska mean a derogation from the territorial dispersion of production, as we said in Koroška, Gorenjska and Štajerska, and a departure from the strategy of equal settlement and equal development of Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u319	Dear President, honourable Member Mrs Violeta Tomić, the distinguished others are present! Thank you for the question and, of course, I am also answering it. The strategic plan was already prepared and was submitted to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in October 2019. The Ministry of Justice immediately forwarded the proposal for a strategic plan to the so-called "intersorial treatment", of course also to other resources which must, of course, review the plan. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition shall be the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, as part of the inter-ministerial discussion of the strategic plan. 11. 2019 imposed a two-month deadline for the preparation of the additions proposed by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. However, the essential addition that has been commissioned in this respect concerns the preparation of simplified projections of the balance sheet and the balance of performance or the overall operation of the said centres, i.e. wood collection and processing centres. Because, of course, we all agree that we need to build these centres, but we also need to ensure that the profitability and profitability of these centres are adequate. On the basis of this contract, the company has, of course, prepared investment laboratories for all four of the centres mentioned by you and has included them in the update of the company’s strategic plan for the period 2020-2029. It also included other comments made by other ministries in the framework of the inter-ministerial hearing. Such an updated strategic plan was sent by the company to the Ministry of Agriculture in January 2020. Investment laboratories for a centre for the preparation of glued laminated wood, a centre for the production of cross-sticked wood and a collection and establishment centre for wet storage have demonstrated all three, extremely low yield. The private investor test, which is the fourth centre, indicates that in the event of an investment, State aid could be unlawful. So only the fourth centre in the state plan, this is an investment in updating the snow saw, has shown an appropriate rate of return after this study and, of course, that limit of the eligibility of the investment. This, of course, cannot be confirmed by the strategic plan, with three balance sheets proven to be non-profit centres, it is still in the process. As soon as this new revised plan is in place, of course, an inter-ministerial hearing will continue. As regards the fact that by 2021 the company must provide 20% of the appropriate equipment and also employment for the execution of its own cut. The work of the investment in this part is ongoing and changes and additions to the business plan for 2020 have already been prepared, as confirmed by the Supervisory Board. And so, as part of the business plan's rebalancing, it is planned to increase investment in state forests, further under 5.5 million in forest and conservation work, which represents an increase in planned investments in forests by around €2.5 million compared to the previous strategic plan. The company also continues to invest in hardware and personnel. For this purpose, it increases these capacities. By 2021 it would have realised its own cut and achieved 20% as foreseen in the strategy. Therefore, according to current plans, the company will carry out 20% of this own cut in 2021. As regards the investment in Snežnik, which is the only beneficiary, the previous strategic plan has already invested in the oil line of EUR 296 000. The next investment, which relates to a plant with a capacity of up to 100,000 cubic metres per year of 7.2 million euros, is also included in the new draft strategic plan, i.e. one that goes back into inter-resort treatment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u320	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u321	If I understand you correctly, Madam Minister, these wood-processing plants will not be available in Slovenia, because in your opinion, profitability is questionable and will be a low rate of return. This seems absolutely incredible to me, because if it has SiDGs with almost 235 thousand hectares of state forests and has a circus of 66 million revenue, of which 11.4 million net profits, then it seems very strange to me. The latest version of the December 2019 strategic plan, which you have just mentioned and was supplemented by investment laboratories of the collection and processing and investment centres in the business house, was prepared in January 2020. The investment programmes were prepared as you mentioned that they seemed meaningful, the only investment in the center of Kočevje, said in the existing company Sneznik, d.o.o., and in the business building for which they would spend EUR 5 million, despite not receiving the approval of the Supervisory Board. In short, the law states that SIDG must reach 20% of its own cut, now reaching 7.1%, but it was also a legal obligation to set up timber collection and processing centres. There would be shorter chains, there would be no need to drive abroad and import products. In short, according to the latest strategic plan, four timber collection and processing centres were envisaged. One is supposed to be in Koroška for cross-sticked boards, as the trend in the world is heading in the direction of cross-sticked boards, and it is amazing that we alone in this world are not worth processing wood that we have to deal with and allows for low logistics costs and green jobs. The next two are supposed to be in Notranjska and Maribor, so I can't really believe that we're not worth processing wood, but it's worth exporting as a log and importing products. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u323	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, too, Madam Members, for the additional question. I didn't say anything about having these centers. Such as were envisaged in this strategic plan, which we did not send for confirmation, are, however, non-profitable. We have therefore requested that a new plan be drawn up for the four pooling centres, such a plan that will, of course, ensure adequate profitability. If I had been confirmed by the strategic plan, as it had been prepared, and it was not only on some projection, but actually prepared by the labs, which showed the projection of the balance sheet and success, the state would of course invest in installations that do not provide sufficient profitability. That is why we have demanded that the strategic plan be revised and corrected. This does not mean that we have wiped out these four woodworking centres, but we simply want such balances, including by repairing, of course, input raw materials and, of course, by such business models, that these four centres will ensure sufficient profitability. And in the latest strategic plan or complementary proposal of the strategic plan, it is not planned to include investment in a business building, but it has approached SIDG to address the issue of the regulation of business premises with the envisaged medium-term lease of existing premises for which it plans to lease for a period of five to six years. Which means that in this strategic plan of the new business building you mentioned, it will not be precisely because we want to invest first in wood processing centres, which I agree that we have enough raw materials, that we have enough potential and that we need to provide more value than just that we export this wood in large quantities.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u325	My procedural proposal is to hold a discussion at the next meeting on this, because, you know, SidDG, a state-owned company, was set up with the aim of not exporting colds and imports of finished products, as in the concession system. This was the purpose of the establishment of the company Slovenian National Forest. Then again, politics took hold, and in short, some went to heaven. Now that we have a health crisis, and the co-vid is supposed to bring us one of the biggest economic crises, we are also faced with a great deal of unemployment. Through these four wood processing centres, you could get hundreds of green, quality jobs across various parts of Slovenia. We also know that there were once woodworking centres in the Sentries, many in Slovenia and that we still have an educated staff. I want to know: Why does Sidg not first achieve his own cut as he predicts and still wait for the concessionaires to pay for the cut? The result is also the multiplication of the lobular to understand because it waits, does not have its own tools and advocates that it does not have enough machines because it should buy them for starters. In short, I want to know: How will society achieve this 20% cut in its own direction in the future? I would also like to discuss once in Slovenia when we will start employment in the most important segment of our economy under the meritocratic criteria of responsible, competent management and not politically appointed people, rather than taking care of the implementation of plans, the implementation of legal obligations and the extension of production to other parts of the country, as I have already said, the purpose of SIDG development of the woodworking industry in Slovenia. In short, we are looking forward to hundreds of green jobs and we need to discuss this seriously, because in this time of crisis, jobs are still important. I want to know: As Minister, what will you do to finally make Slovenia a sustainable and even development of the country in the woodworking industry? Please take into account my proposal that this should be discussed at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-15-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda. I thank the ministers and ministers for the answers given. I am adjourning the 18th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good-bye!
