ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: only Bevk until 2 p.m., Jože Tanko until 6 p.m., Bojana Muršić, Vojko Starović, Franc Kramar, Mateja Udovč, Lidija Dijak Mirnik, Mihael Prevc, Zmigo Jelinčič Plmeniti, Nada Brinovšek, Andrej Černigoj from 10 a.m. to 14 p.m., Iva Dimic from 17 a.m., Mojca Žnidarič from 17 a.m. and Marjan Šarec from 12.00 p.m. to 14 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of the proposal for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020. The proposal for a budget rebalancing was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. For the presentation of the Proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020, I give the floor first to Prime Minister Janez Janša. Mr President of the Government, you can also go for a pay phone if you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! As soon as the government took up its mandate, it faced a completely new situation in which it had to react first by redistributing resources for the acquisition of protective equipment and covering the most necessary costs for the fight against the epidemic, which immediately led to a mismatch with what was adopted in terms of public finances or the budget for this year. Therefore, within the legal deadlines, the Government has drawn up a budget rebalancing for this year, which you have ahead of you and which, after what can be estimated on the basis of macroeconomic forecasts, is realistically reflecting the state's public financial position at this time. I believe that we will be able to conclude the year in accordance with these assumptions. The following years are more questionable because we do not know exactly how long this challenge of coronavirus will last, but this is a debate that awaits us in the short term when the Government will submit the budget documents for next year or for the next two years. As far as the balance is concerned, allow me to highlight in this introduction the main reasons for the budget deficit, which has also been discussed most since the budget deficit is nominally high. It is, and I stress this at the outset, in accordance with the legislation governing the golden fiscal rule in Slovenia, both by constitutional regulation and by law, because this law provides for exceptions in times of emergency, and is also in line with European regulation, because the European Commission has released the framework for public debt, the responsibility for this exceptional situation. Therefore, the balance of the budget is in line with the constitutional and European formal frameworks, but it is still necessary to explain what this high deficit is made up of or why. Initially, I note that it is probably the first time in the history of this country that the Government can explain exactly what these funds were or will be used for exactly up to every euro. This increase in the budget deficit of €4.5 billion, or this budget deficit previously not foreseen, was due to a significant decrease in income due to the epidemic and the increase in expenditure at the same time. So far, 4.6 billion have been paid from this framework to direct users to mitigate the effects of covida-19 by the beginning of this month almost € 1.6 billion, notably to the following groups. Workers or employees directly received almost EUR 500 million from the reimbursement of waiting for work, temporary waiting for work, when because of the increased force it was not possible to carry out their work, as well as from the excessive burden of controlling the epidemic, almost EUR 500 million was paid for this purpose. In addition, the same recipients, who claim to be employees or the economy in a broader sense, were exempt from some EUR 560 million in the form of exemption from social security contributions, compensates the hospital from the first day of absence and increases in the assets of certain funds to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic in the economy. The self-employed and farmers received around EUR 130 million from this title in the form of monthly basic income, exemption from social contributions, direct compensation for income losses and compensation for the patient from the first day of absence. Pensioners with low pensions received or paid almost €70 million in a single solidarity allowance. About EUR 30 million was paid to other vulnerable groups such as students, socially disadvantaged members of farms and large families. In the form of a tourist voucher, around €60 million has been paid to citizens by the beginning of this month, almost once again to date, and as you know, we have been able to largely save the tourist season and the tourist economy in a relatively healthy condition, while in the tourist economy, we work around 60,000 people. During this time, we have also provided an increase in the average for municipalities, with a total financial implications for this year of around €145 million. This money was used in part by the congregations to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic, and in part for other needs. Of course, unemployment has increased slightly despite all these measures. This has also led to increased social transfers for the unemployed. To this end, some 45 million euros were spent. And due mainly to interventions in health and partly to pension funds, more than €270 million went there. Since certain measures from the first four anti-coronarets still apply because it is in preparation and will shortly be on your fifth, because this danger has not yet passed and the consequences need to be mitigated, for such or unforeseen costs associated with the epidemic, the general budget provision in this balance, which is ahead of you, is also increased for a good billion euros. If we add even lower revenues to these funds, given that both the economy and individuals have been exempt from taxes and contributions for a certain period of time, this year there will be around €230 million less in revenue from citizens, about €720 million less in VAT and about €170 million less in expenditure. These funds, this money, these millions of euros have remained with citizens, the economy and therefore all these entities have also felt significantly less the impact of the epidemic. This year, companies will also pay around €370 million less than corporate income tax, which further preserves the Slovenian economy in its proper condition. However, it is possible to say that the measures which were financially assessed in the way I presented them have significantly facilitated the situation and the overall economic and social picture in the country. That these funds have been used economically may be illustrated with some information or facts, even though the year is not yet over. If not for all these measures, the Slovenian economy or you in Slovenia would have permanently or temporarily lost around 150 000 jobs. All those who lose their jobs would have to join the social network in one way or another, it is said, should make a substantial increase in unemployment contributions, which would also increase the budget deficit while at the same time have more than 100,000 fewer employees in the Slovenian economy, which means that revenues would still be significantly lower. Thus, even if we did not take action, the budget deficit would be the same or significantly higher, while at the same time they would be, as regards the economic and general conditions of the country, at some point when it would be very difficult to count on any recovery in the coming years. The following information, which tells us that the Government has acted economically, is the assessment of domestic and European institutions as regards the fall of gross domestic product or the general impact of the standard in Slovenia compared to others. I believe that in the latest assessment the European Commission estimates the fall of Slovenia or the gross domestic product in Slovenia in this year to 7%. Our institutions are even more optimistic, and let us take a European Commission assessment, where we can compare it with other countries. The average decline for this year is estimated at 8.3% of GDP across the European Union, even more than 8.7% for the euro area, for example for our most developed neighbour Austria to 7.1%, says slightly more than for us, in France this decline is almost 11%, in Italy more than 11% and in Croatia almost 11%. Thus, it is comparable if these comparative data are confirmed with the other Member States of the European Union at the end of the year, Slovenia is relatively welcome over this epidemic or pandemic period, as it relates to this year, and can be more optimistic in the coming years. The forecast for Slovenia is positive next year. So we can expect not as high a growth as this year's fall, but close to it. If we make further efforts, perhaps we can even achieve this goal. If that were to happen, we would be one of the few European countries that, within a relatively short period of one year, has made up for this fall. The fact that we can be optimists in terms of approaching this goal also shows the relatively rapid or realistic possibility of rapidly drawing European funds from the next seven-year financial perspective or European budget and recovery fund, the Government is making enormous efforts to enable us to be able not only to draw on these funds nominally but also to invest them economically. If we're able to do that, then this year's fall is actually going to be a short-term episode in this country's public financial life. I hope that what we will write in the budget for the next two years will also be able to stem ambitious growth by correcting some of the flaws or by replacing some of the flaws or by correcting some of the so-called unreformed areas where long years in Slovenia, apart from speaking and studying, nothing has happened, and therefore we also have bigger problems, at least when it comes to tackling the epidemic, in terms of the capacity of the health system, the care of the elderly and so on. So much for that. More than said, on prospects and budgets for the future, the Government will propose these documents by the end of this month. On some of the more detailed guidelines for the rebalancing, however, the Minister of Finance is hereafter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u3	Thank you very much. For the presentation of the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020, I give the floor to the Minister of Finance [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Bandelli, what procedure do you have at this stage of the procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u4	One procedure, please. I am interested, Madam President, in view of the fact that yesterday was the Olympic Committee's event in Ljubljana – here we see – without masks, tell us whether it is now mandatory to wear masks here, whether it is just because it is wanted. Look. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u5	Your Honor, Mr. Bandelli, this is an abuse of the rules of procedure. Yesterday there was no Olympic Committee, what rules there were in the National Assembly, but you know it. I would like to ask Minister of Finance Andre Shirtzl to present to us a proposal for a budget rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Dear Prime Minister, fellow ministers and ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! You have before you the correction or rebalancing of the 2020 budget, which was created on the basis of exceptional circumstances arising from the fact that at the time the epidemic was declared, the government actually took over. From this perspective, at the first meeting of the new government, a measure was taken to provide a budget reserve for the purchase of emergency medical equipment and the provision of emergency medical services. From this point of view, there have been a number of uncertainties and a number of comments on this measure, but this measure was necessary so that we can immediately ensure better human health and mitigate the consequences of the epidemic. From this point of view, budgetary funding has been made to date by providing the Ministry of Finance or the Government with transfers to finance those activities and those programmes that were necessary for this purpose, but most of the funding went towards health services. At the same time, I would like to say that this epidemic and this crisis are completely different, and the origin is quite different from the crisis in 2008, 2009 and then continued with us in 2012 and 2013. If that crisis is characterised by an increase in demand for increased loans to reduce liquidity, then this crisis is characterised by a decrease in demand for people or households in particular, an increase in deposits to increase liquidity and an increase in country consumption as a result of this crisis. This is also a well-known model in economic theory of how to solve crisis situations in such a situation, so do not expect today and today there is actually no new buzzer. That's what I'm talking about, because there was a lot of talk about the new buzzer in this National Assembly. On this basis, it is actually gone and it will not be in the future. In addition to the increase in consumption, the Government immediately diverted its operations to the provision of additional liquidity and therefore further committed itself. This commitment is within the framework of what the National Assembly sets out, within the framework of this amount, which is fixed and actually ensures liquidity not only to the state budget but also to municipalities, health insurance, pension funds, in short, to all elements of the so-called public expenditure. The essence of the measures adopted in the laws, in the four anti-Korona laws, is now the fifth law, job provision and the mitigation of unemployment, or the failure of businesses to leave the market. Most companies also did not leave the market because of the measures taken by the Government, so they could have reduced production, they could have temporarily stopped it, but liquidity was guaranteed. To this end, two laws have also been adopted providing additional guarantees for loans given to companies. Here I would like to point out the following: that one law that gives State guarantees to loans is actually being used a little bit, but mainly because business banks themselves give credit and do not send these loans to the SID Bank. For this reason, I will say that the business banks themselves satisfactorily save liquidity mainly for those companies that are good or medium-standing enterprises. However, we must also resolve with State guarantees the liquidity of those companies that were already bad companies before the crisis. The revenue of the budget rebalancing has experienced a remarkable fall. Here I would mention in particular the corporate income tax, which fell by one third. I would mention an income of less than 16 %, excise duty by 13.5%, value added tax by 11.4%. This fall was also planned because a number of measures have been taken to allow companies to postpone taxes that enabled businesses to pass tax obligations into the future, and not least, these taxes will come into the budget at a time when companies will be in a better position and when they will actually be in the old business, in the business they had before, and will also be able to invest in development. The government, when it retained jobs and when it retained businesses on the market, actually allowed the foreign to respond positively. This is also reflected in the assessments of various credit rating agencies. And if we look at these assessments, then we can find that the estimates in most cases are the same as those that these credit rating agencies gave in 2019. From this point of view, we also expect that the ratings of credit rating agencies will not change to worse, but to better. This is also shown by the interest rates at which Slovenia is indebted. These interest rates are stable, around 0 for a 10-year bond. This means that Slovenia and the Slovenian Government enjoy confidence in financial circles at home and abroad and that these financial circles believe in the correctness of the policies implemented by this government. If we look at percentages, then we can say that Slovenia is indebted to 82.4% of gross social product, but we have two variables here. On the one hand, we have a reduction in gross social product and on the other hand we have an increased nominal debt. We are now talking about the debt of 82.4% of gross social product, which still makes us one of the countries that are at the top of the scale between European countries after least indebtedness. From this point of view, we expect a favourable situation to continue, and we expect that the credit rating agencies will also take account of the actual situation. The budget deficit of EUR 4 billion 202 million is high. It is large, but we expect, as well as the international public, that it will decrease in the coming period and that there will be a reduction in the deficit, in accordance with the fiscal rule, and in the end that the deficit will be equal or that we will be able to talk about the surplus. This is also our task in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 12 of the Fiscal Rule Act. The government will fulfill this task. In other words, the Fiscal Council will present a way of reducing the deficit and also a time frame for this deficit reduction. So I can say that this deficit is temporary and a result of exceptional circumstances. The ceiling for expenditure in the State budget is set at EUR 13.3 billion and the deficit is set at 9.3% of gross social product. As the gross social product improves, in the coming period, in the following year — and such forecasts — the percentage or the ratio will be lower. Given that revenues will also stabilise, I expect that this will also have a positive impact on the deficit or the public spending balance. The latest income figures show that the tax revenues in the month of August are already at a level or 1.5 % above the revenues in August 2019. This may also be the result of the one-off events that most citizens spent in the country, Slovenia, or many more citizens in Slovenia than in August 2019, but if we take more July data, then we can say that the revenues are stabilised. They are stabilizing means that they are moving to the level of 2019, and I expect such a trend in the last months of this year. Expenditure on pension funds was covered from the State budget and expenditure on medical bills and certain expenditure on municipalities were covered. All three cash registers are stable. Thus, 611 million euros were paid from the State budget to increase expenditure on pension funds. We expect this amount to be slightly higher at the end of the year than it was in 2019, especially because the pension allowance has received fewer contributions, we are talking about these already known exemptions. The State budget also provides current revenue for healthcare and covers the deficit in this health treasury in 2019 and 2020. From this perspective, I expect that, in 2021 and 2022, the forecast for gross social product will be improved, for economic development as well as for the use of European funds, including because these European funds provide an increase in investment, in particular ensuring that they can finance reforms that are urgently needed both in the health field and in the pension field, as well as investments in infrastructure and energy are essential in this country. This will improve and increase added value, affecting the lives of people, which will affect the quality of life. If I withdraw, then I can say that the measures taken by the Government have provided jobs, the existence of most jobs to ensure adequate health quality, also ensure the continuation of investments and new investments. In doing so, the government will aim to reduce administrative obstacles and actually increase investment activities. The financial system is stable, liquidity is high, and from this point of view I expect favourable trends in the coming years, as well as better results than in 2020, where it surprised us, in some way, an epidemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The proposal for a budget rebalancing was addressed by the Committee on Finance as the parent working body. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Comrade Reich, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u8	I repeat the procedural proposal of Mr Mark Bandelli, a fellow Member of Parliament. He clearly asked whether wearing the mask was compulsory or not. Yesterday we did. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u9	Comrade Reich, this is an abuse of procedure. I'll turn off your microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u10	This is also important for conducting this session, whether we have to wear it today or not. Yesterday there was a live television broadcast when the highest representatives of the government were not wearing masks, namely, the Minister of Education. This is not an abuse of the rules of procedure. The Minister of Education didn't wear a mask yesterday, but she ordered it to the students.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u11	Comrade Reich, this is an abuse of procedure. It's up to us and not the government to decide what's going on in the National Assembly. As you are aware, at the College of the President of the National Assembly or at the meeting, we agreed to wear masks, including a payphone. And that's the only rule that applies here. What's been going on at other events, and I want you to judge somewhere else. Comrade Polnar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 25th meeting, on 19 September this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The Committee was informed of the views of all interested working bodies which have not formulated their amendments to the proposal for a rebalancing. We were also informed of the opinion of the State Council, which supports the proposal for a rebalancing. Within the deadline of business, qualified applicants tabled 62 amendments, of which two amendments were amended. In his opening presentation, the Minister of Finance said that the budget already adopted for 2020 does not reflect the actual situation in the given situation and therefore the epidemic requires a rebalancing. He further presented the circumstances both in Slovenia and internationally arising from the declared epidemic. He said that state revenues have decreased by almost one third from March to June. For reasons of transparency, expenditure on the epidemic is managed on separate items. The Director of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development said that the proposal for a rebalancing was based on the baselines of the summer forecast of Umar for 2020 and presented the current economic situation. The forecasts of international institutions for Slovenia's main trading partners are improving and therefore the confidence indicators are improving and rising from month to month. The President of the Fiscal Council initially said that the criteria set out in Article 12 of the Fiscal Rule Act were met which, due to exceptional circumstances, allow for a temporary derogation from the long-term balance of public finances. The Fiscal Council will ask the Government for an assessment of the continued existence of exceptional circumstances for the future budget. He also drew attention to the need for greater transparency, in particular towards the end of the year, which is not related to the consequences of the epidemic. In response to the Fiscal Council's assessment, the Minister of Finance explained that the Government is seriously considering its assessment and will also take into account the proposed measures. He warned, however, that the four anti-Korona laws had not yet been implemented and said that exceptional circumstances were still in place, because the epidemic had not ceased. In the debate, some Members felt that the proposal for a rebalancing did not guarantee the medium-term stability of public finances, as it increased expenditure, including those not linked to the epidemic. They also considered that the items for covid-19 and for reserves are very large and that the display of expenditure itself does not provide sufficient transparency. Regarding the reduction of items, the areas of culture, science and development, digitisation, rail infrastructure, environment and job creation were highlighted. On the contrary, other members of the Committee welcomed the increase in road resources, the rise in the average for municipalities, the introduction of tourism vouchers and pointed out that the proposal for a rebalancing reflected the actual situation in the light of the current state of covida-19 epidemics, its exceptional circumstances and, above all, that it covered the entire financial year 2020. They highlighted the social attitude of the rebalancing and mentioned subsidies to private companies as well as transfers to individuals and households. They noted that transparency was ensured as the government reported to the National Assembly on the use of funds. The Minister of Finance, the President of the Fiscal Council and the State secretaries from various ministries answered the questions raised and provided further clarifications. The Committee further identified the amendments tabled by qualified applicants tabled in accordance with Article 166 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and did not support any amendments. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the following decision: the Committee on Finance supports the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The Italian and Hungarian national communities, Felice Žiža, have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u14	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Honourable Minister of Finance, Honourable Government, Honourable Colleagues and Colleagues! Egregio Presidente della Camera di Stato, egregio Presidente del Governo, egregio Ministero delle finanze, egreghi deputati! Tiste Hölgyim és Uraim! Despite the exceptional circumstances associated with the covida-19 epidemic, the state of the budget has not changed to adopt this year's budget for the financing of emergency measures related to the resolution and mitigation of the covida-19 consequences. With all the changes that had been made and related to those measures, it was, of course, necessary to propose and draw up a rebalancing of the budget for 2020. The Italian and Hungarian Group of National Communities supports the Proposal for a Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021. In our Group of Members, we are pleased with the proposed means for the implementation of constitutional and legal provisions and of sectoral and systemic policies aimed at protecting the specific rights of constitutional and legal provisions and other rights of the national communities in the Republic of Slovenia and their members. At the same time, it is also an element that constitutes the fulfilment of the mandated tasks arising from the agreement between the Members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities, including in cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u16	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues, Colleagues! The balance of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 is needed due to the consequences of the covida-19 epidemic. The 2020 budget balance means aligning revenue and expenditure with the actual situation. The final result of the rebalancing is a deficit of some more than €4 billion, which is due to lower revenues from planned covida-19 epidemics and higher expenditure also due to covida-19 epidemics. The covida-19 epidemic has not only affected Slovenia, but also other countries of the European Union, Europe, Asia, America and, as a result, a pandemic has been declared in the world. The revenue is planned to reach EUR 9.2 billion and expenditure to EUR 13.4 billion. The budget deficit planned for this year amounts to €4.2 billion. The fall in revenue and the increase in expenditure in relation to the budget adopted are due to the economic downturn during the covida-19 epidemic and the measures taken to protect the population and the economy. The government did not forget about citizens and citizens and businesses during the crisis. The proposal for a rebalancing of this year's state budget was prepared in uncertain situations and after a sudden and very rapid economic halt followed by the outbreak. This has caused a major economic shock, according to the latest forecast by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for macroeconomic analysis and development, the gross domestic product will fall by slightly more than 7% this year. At the time of the epidemic, there was a sharp decline in budgetary revenues, while at the same time rising expenditure due to government measures taken to mitigate the impact of the crisis and maintain economic activity. Rebalancing revenue is projected to reach EUR 9.2 billion and is lower by EUR 14.7 and 1.6 billion compared to the 2020 budget adopted. This mainly reflects lower consumption, lower employment rates and lower business performance. The higher budget expenditure is due to the measures taken by the Government in the fight against covid-19 virus. The measures taken were taken with the aim of stopping and spreading covid-19, protecting the Slovenian economy and jobs, and helping businesses that are failing to operate. The covida-19 epidemic actually stopped life and economy overnight in the Republic of Slovenia and consequently reduced the main revenue of the budget, namely excise duty, value added tax, income tax and corporate income tax. The government has adopted four packages of so-called anti-korona actions, anti-korona action 1, 2, 3, 4. Most of these measures have been prepared for people. Money was given to the one he needed most, that is, to the people. Unlike previous crises, financial institutions have not been resolved this time. The balance of the budget for 2020 is likely to be the most socially oriented and targeted budget in the history of the country of Slovenia. Measures from the CAP1 to the CAP4 were to protect citizens and the economy and to mitigate the negative consequences of the epidemic and to protect the most vulnerable groups. I will point out some of the measures taken by the Government in all four anti-Koronapackets. Reimbursement of salary for temporary waiting, reimbursement of remuneration for a period of specified quarantine, partial subsidisation of short-term full-time work, deferral or interest payment of taxes for a maximum of 24 months, retention of tax executions, exemption from tax on the income of legal persons, deferral of social security contributions to self-employed persons, exemption from social security contributions, exceptional assistance in the form of monthly basic income for espas, EUR 700. 328 thousand 780 low-retirement pensioners received a single solidarity allowance of three different amounts, 300, 230 and 130 euros. A hazard allowance and special burdens for public servants and private operators. Solidarity aid of 150 euros was received by beneficiaries of parental allowance, childcare allowance, family assistants and foster parents. Single social assistance was also granted to parents and other persons receiving child allowances. The government also included in the aid package students who were paid a solidarity allowance of 150 euros. Exemption of rent payments to renters of commercial buildings or business premises owned by the Republic of Slovenia or the ownership of self-government local communities. The guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia was given for guarantees for banks and savings banks, tourist vouchers were issued, the average of municipalities rose. It should be pointed out that all anti-Korona measures have also been taken by the opposition and that most of the opposition's proposals have been included in one of the four packages of measures adopted so far by the National Assembly. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we are convinced that the measures are good and effective and effective. The fact that the measures have been successful clearly shows a comparison of the fall of gross domestic product in the countries of the European Union and Europe. It is clear from these figures that Slovenia has recorded a smaller drop in gross domestic product than other countries and that it could be classified as more successful countries. By comparison, the biggest decline is recorded mainly by countries that are tourism-oriented, Greece, Spain, Italy, France. Slovenia has decided to introduce tourist vouchers, it turns out that with them we have maintained tourism in Slovenia in some way and thereby significantly reduced the fall of gross domestic product. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that all the measures taken have been significantly more favourable to people and to the economy than in most countries of the European Union. It is important that Slovenia's credit rating has not changed at a given time and remains at the same level, which is undoubtedly proof that Slovenia is on the right track in the fight against covido-19. It is important that the most important revenue for the budget in recent months is returned to the amount of planned revenue or to the amount of revenue comparable to 2019 and that the financial system is stable. Which is certainly not comparable to the economic crisis in 2011. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that it is not a concern that the National Assembly should accept the Zuif-2 in the coming months. The budget balance provides additional resources mainly for the most vulnerable areas such as the economy, social and health. Health care will receive more than 200 million additional funding from the 2020 budget balance compared to the planned one. Once again, we are talking about the 2020 budget rebalancing, which means aligning with the actual situation. The three months are yet ahead of us with this budget, and we certainly cannot agree with some members of the opposition in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that the budget balance is not development-oriented. We will be able to talk about the development budget in the coming months when the revised budget for 2021 will come to the National Assembly. We cannot go beyond the fact that a multiannual financial framework has been adopted in summer and a record amount has been provided for the Republic of Slovenia for the next seven years. The Republic of Slovenia will receive more than €10 billion from the European Union's Multiannual Financial Framework. These are the most important sources with which Slovenia can increase income in the budget and raise the standard of living. There is a need to ensure that projects that will ensure development have a multiplier effect on revenue in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, I would call on all members of the opposition to take seriously the successful withdrawal of the European funds available to Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that all the measures taken have been taken, PKP1, PKP2, PKP3, PKP4, adopted for the people and for the resolution of the Slovenian economy. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the 2020 budget is probably the most socially oriented and targeted budget in the history of the Republic of Slovenia. It is important that, through the measures taken, we have helped people, the economy, that the economy has not stopped, that we have a functioning economy in Slovenia today and that revenue in the budget gradually improves from month to month. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that all these measures adopted in 2020 are also a springboard for the preparation of a budget change for 2021, where the key issue is that we have a successful, efficient, functioning economy that will generate higher revenues into the budget and that we have a stable health system. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a budget rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca, Igor Pecek will present the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u18	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Council of Ministers, Colleagues and Colleagues! Today we are considering a budget rebalancing which should essentially be a technical document, a fine coordination of the budget adopted by the coalition under the leadership of Mr Marjan Sarc. The current government should take it where it doesn't spend it and give it where it needs it. But this is not the case, for the second time, Slovenia has been facing an unfathomable fall of gross domestic product. For the first time in the period followed by the first government of Janez Janša, when you allowed companies to become overly indebted, but now we are in a situation where the fall of gross domestic product has, in fact, been historically, the biggest ever, not so much in the time of the financial and economic crisis. The projected budget deficit for 2020 amounts to €4.2 billion and 9.3% of gross domestic product. By comparison, the budget adopted by the government of Marjana Sarca last autumn foreseen a surplus of EUR 514 million for 2020. The first major problem we see in the Marjan Sarca List is that once we deduct funds to finance measures to limit the impact of the epidemic, the rebalancing projections still indicate a higher expenditure growth than last year and than in the adopted budget. This is also pointed out by the Fiscal Council, and the Fiscal Council also recalls the high level of indebtedness this year, which I quote, and this is very important, “the budgetary needs do not fully reflect”. It also says that "Despite currently favourable conditions of financing, the rebalancing brings additional costs and historical experience shows that debt reduction is very difficult". We've over-indebted ourselves, and we'll have to pay it back in the future. The debt of the state budget increased netly by EUR 5.1 billion in seven months this year. According to the Government's proposal, it could increase by as much as 7.3 billion throughout the year. Under Janša's first government, companies were over-indebted, and under this government, it appears, the country will be over-indebted. In particular, the fact that the planned reserves, which are very large, are not sufficiently explained during the expenditure will be in the eyes. According to the Ministry of Finance, the direct impact of measures to limit the impact of covid-19 on the expenditure side will be €2.6 billion for 2020. Only a good half of this amount, which is 1.4 billion, was realised in the first eight months of the year, when most of the measures in force with the highest projected public financial impact, according to the Ministry of Finance. Out of the remaining 1.2 billion, which is foreseen for covid-19 measures in the last four months, the vast majority represent reserves. This is a total of €953 million. The Fiscal Council estimates that some 350 million of this reserve will be realised. A larger amount is expected by the end of the year for subsidies and expected further purchases of protective equipment. If purchases of protective equipment are to take place as before, we can only be afraid of it. Therefore, 600 million euros remain unexplained. If we look at the balance sheet in more detail, we have to deal with a significant loss of income and a huge increase in expenditure. Revenue is projected at 9.2 billion and is 14.7 billion lower or 1.6 billion lower than the budget adopted for 2020. The maximum share of the estimated revenue of the State budget is the value added tax revenue, followed by excise duties, income and revenue received from the European Union budget. And the income from value added tax is significantly lower than planned – by 722 million. The fall reflects less private consumption, which we have been alerting in the List of Marjan Šarca since the outbreak. With the amendment of the law and the proposal to introduce the provisional monthly universal income that we have considered in the National Assembly, we wanted to increase private consumption, but unfortunately this proposal, as many others, was not adopted. The expenditure of the national budget rebalancing of €13.4 billion is higher by 3 billion or 29.3% than the 2020 budget adopted. The adopted budget for 2020, adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 21 November 2019, is planned at EUR 10.4 billion. The actual budget deficit of 4.2 billion means that at the end of this year, every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia will be in charge of an additional EUR 2 000 100, or we will have to do good three months without pay to cover this deficit. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no development direction in the balance, no action to restart the economy. Where are investments in public infrastructure? The absence of development guidance is worrying about us. We strongly hope that the draft budget for next year will be different. In the balance, you are even reducing funds to help small and medium-sized enterprises in the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. In addition, the guarantee scheme for maintaining the liquidity of the economy has not been implemented. It has been valued at 2 billion, but so far it has resulted in 75 million loans granted in battles. At the time of the adoption of the scheme, we proposed amendments in the List of Marjan Šarc to facilitate the accessibility and understanding of the scheme, but the Government, which thus spoke out loud about de-de-barcation, insisted on its trenches and ignored our proposals. But in our view now is not the time for trenches, it is time for joint movements. To sum up two more things that are the most violent in the 2020 rebalancing. You're reducing resources for education, science, research and development, as if our brains really are the ones who have to go on a weight loss diet first. You are reducing funds for culture, even though we all know what multicultural effects culture has on other economic activities. The parties from the current government, in particular you, Mr Finance Minister, have given the previous government a populist view of the unconstitutional balance, and the Constitutional Court has denied you, and now you are giving the impression that the amount of the deficit is irrelevant. A billion up or down, the impression of some carelessness, sometimes even vehementity, pursuing general peace. For each greatly increased expenditure, such as the 780-million-dollar investment in the military, we hear the same mantra – the funds exist. Of course, we all know that funds exist, but it is probably a key question of what these funds will be spent on if we are going to be in debt. Is it really necessary to make these investments now? The health department is beating our necks, and you're buying eight-wheelers, and you're also saying that we're going to fund these purchases with European funds. You keep using the term, “as much as this government has given to people, no government has ever given.” People are the ones who gave the people, the government shares our money, and we're the ones who're gonna give it back. Moreover, in our view, the balance contains a lot of substantive illogicalities. You spend less money on active employment policy programmes – why? Does the government expect a miraculous increase in employment? Is waiting for work actually a waiting room for the institution? You spend less on scholarships and education, but knowledge alone will increase our added value in the long run. You're lowering military funds, but at the same time you're proposing 780 million-dollar arms purchases. Finally, you are reducing funds to the Commission for the prevention of corruption, the State Audit Commission, institutions that are carrying out an extremely important supervisory function. But given all the affairs and suspicions of corruption that have been revealed in recent months, we are not surprised. But for a period of three months for 24 million, that is 160%, you raised the item to correct past injustices and damages. At the Committee on Finance's meeting, however, you did not find it worth having to answer for the reasons for such an enormous increase. Respected, such a proposal for a rebalancing which reduces resources for science and research, education and scholarships, for culture, while at the same time inexplicably incursing itself, does not explain why the reserves amounting to almost a billion euros cannot be supported in the List of Marjan Sarcas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The text is delivered by the Group of Social Democrats, a colleague of Jani Prednik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u20	Honourable President, Honourable Minister and other Ministerial Assembly, colleagues and colleagues! This year's rebalancing is taking place under unusual and unstable circumstances brought about by the new disease pandemic. At the same time, with the outbreak of the epidemic, we have received a new government, a new coalition with many different views and goals. When the country is faced with a crisis of such dimensions, the colour of the government coalition should not be important. It should be important to protect human health, strengthen the health system, protect jobs, pay particular attention to areas where the epidemic has revealed weaknesses in the system, such as health care and care for the elderly. The budgetary deficit and spending of the country in the circumstances we have are logical and understandable, and it seems perfectly normal for us to assume that there is a great deal of debt and expenditure to deal with the epidemic, even though this is done by those who have already submitted constitutional opinions two years ago due to the minimum deviations of the budgetary framework. In the crisis, it is necessary to mitigate its consequences, invest in reinforcement and rejection, with additional means, including debt, to mitigate the worst consequences of the crisis. With a superficial view of the level of allocated resources, we could even say that the Government and the coalition understand their role in the epidemic crisis in the manner described. The vast majority of users' budgets and programme items are increasing, the government intends to spend, this is undeniable. However, at the time of the first in-depth rebalancing, one cannot remember the tweets of the Vice-President of the National Assembly and SDS Member of the SDS, Mr Jožet Tank, at the time of the formation of this right-wing government. “Time is for the rapid and thorough clearance of the state budget,” wrote Mr Tanko on 24 March this year. Apparently, these were the words of the prophet, but only a few days later we adopted an anti-Korona package which gave the government special powers to manage the budget past the National Assembly, referring to the epidemic. A weak month later, the media also discovered a reckless way of buying expensive protective equipment. Spending was large, the equipment was procured little, and transparency was virtually nothing. Since then, we have adopted four anti-Korona packages to deal with the consequences of the epidemic, an epidemic that the Government, together with the help of self-employed, has ended in May. The epidemic has been a formal end since spring, and exceptional circumstances continue, even though we do not know exactly what to call them. This is because the rebalancing discussed in September of the unexpected crisis year also reflects in many ways the funds that have already been used, not just those that are yet to be used. We need to be aware of this throughout his consideration, as much of the money that is to be distributed today has already been spent. One of the largest programme lines of the budget is 234001 Funding for the COVID-19 epidemic. Otherwise, this sub-programme does have huge resources, but Members and Members of the public have been having difficulties with the transparency of their consumption throughout the course of this government. This is another important circumstance in dealing with this balance sheet. Respected and respected, some colleagues occasionally say that the budget is an ideological document, in which you do not want to show the most clearly the values and priorities of the rulings. In this budget, with record expenditure at the time of the biggest economic downturn, funds are increasing to almost all ministries, but things are more exciting below the level. Allow me to fly over a specific part of the budget and give you some of the users of the programmes and sub-programmes that, despite all the additional funds this year, will lose some of the budget resources envisaged. The list of losers is far longer than the culture and sciences of which much has been talked about in recent days, but unfortunately only the most visible consequences of the government's budget clearance are the most visible. In the case of non-governmental budgetary users, resources are being reduced to almost everyone, at first glance logically, in the crisis, Parliament, government services, electoral commission and similar resources, but the Government is also reducing: the Ombudsman and the Information Commissioner, in all the disputed and never-tested human rights situations that need to be further assessed, the Court of Auditors, the PSC and the State Audit Commission, whose task is to monitor public money flows and corruption and to resolve conflicts in public procurement, the Fiscal Council, which plays an important role in ensuring the long-term stability of public finances. In the case of government budget users, the story repeats itself interestingly. The funds are being reduced to government services, such as the General Secretariat, Owls, SVRK for more than 60 million, and only the Cabinet of the President of the Government and the Government Communications Office and, of course, the Government Office for Demography, because the chairs for this coalition are obviously more important than the establishment of a real demographic fund. In a major economic uncertainty and a global disruption of economic flows, however, the government is reducing funds for the Office of Macroeconomic Analysis and Development and the Statistical Office. These are two institutions that are urgently needed for the correctness of their economic calculations. If we move to ministries, however, the funds are increasing at almost every ministry, but this is not without casualties. The Ministry of Finance, despite its almost doubled budget, is reducing the resources for regulating public financial policy and fiscal supervision managed by the Office for Budgetary Control. In the area of internal affairs, control resources are being reduced and, in the field of external affairs, taken from the heading for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and allocated to multilateral cooperation, including the activities of the so-called Visegra Group. This year, the Ministry of Defence, which is trying to provide stable funding under a special disputed law, is the victim of a 30 million cut, a third of it on the equipment and readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces and a poor third of it on protection against natural and other disasters that are not addressed by other difficulties and epidemics. The economic development resources are being strengthened by almost a third, but only at the expense of undefined covid-19 epidemic items, while the victims of this reallocation are resources for development infrastructure, for job creation and for small and medium-sized enterprises that are their biggest creators. All this at a time when unemployment began to grow again and every job is precious, while it is not clear how the Department of Trade Reserves will pay for all the purchases it made this spring. The increased funds are also insufficient for part of his spring controversial purchases of protective equipment. Infrastructural resources behave with a higher budget, but within it there is an increase in road resources and a reduction in railway construction. Programmes for the efficient use of energy, renewable resources and transport policy planning are also being reduced. The figures also show that this government does not have an environment and sustainable development among its priorities. It is the same at the Ministry of Environment and Space, reducing funds for the recovery of mining damage, for the conservation of biodiversity, for the management of space and for water management or flood safety. The Ministry of Labour, faced with a number of new challenges due to rising unemployment, has received nominal increases, but the resources for creating new jobs and employment, for scholarships, for social work centres are declining. It is particularly difficult to believe that the Government is reducing long-term care resources by more than €3.5 million, while we are unfortunately already used to the continuous reduction of labour inspectorate funds. The Ministry of Health will receive additional funds only for the covida-19 epidemic, while the funds for health care programmes and for the functioning of health care in crisis situations are being reduced. The Ministry of Public Administration is practically the only one with the resources available falling, and we quickly find that, at the expense of science and the information society, more specifically on broadband networks, which came to us as well at the time of the epidemic, but are not yet at a satisfactory level. Also in this area, the government did not avoid cutting funds for new businesses and consequently new jobs. At the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, science is the largest victim, with 22 million taking on an area dependent on stable funding. In particular, there will be 11 million less in the eyes for school meals. According to the ideology of this government, there is less money for support activities and even for sports infrastructure. The biggest loser is, of course, the Ministry of Culture, which loses €8 million, despite the Government's own explanation for the rebalancing, stating that only a 5-million-dollar reduction in resources can carry this affected area. All items are reduced and this simply cannot be understood as a political punishment of an area that is not at will. With all the damage and resources available to deal with the epidemic, the Government has all the arguments to place the financing of the entire culture in crisis lines this year, such as 1.6 billion in the Ministry of Finance, but it was not willing to do so. It is more important for the rulers to punish disobedience and criticism than to help the affected culture. All of these clearly show that this balance is far from just an epidemic intervention, an ideology and a vengeful one. The right government does exactly what we were afraid of and cuts where it sees its enemies. Could this balance be drawn up differently? Absolutely. First of all, there is a need for transparency of consumption that has not been achieved so far. The reports received by the National Assembly on outstanding government powers shall be a copy and without justification shall contain only lists of redistributed funds. We cannot be optimistic about the transparency of consumption with such promises. The existence of a huge programme item for the covida-19 epidemic, which I repeat has been cancelled for the month of May, only increases this risk. The Social Democrats, as well as the opposition, have complemented their own at least a little change in the direction in which the public finances have embezzled. Our amendments are not unreasonable, nor are they excessively high. We demand only a few simple but important solutions: to return resources for culture and scientific research because our future rests on their stable funding; not to reduce resources for employment and job creation; not to take the opportunity to save school meals in the spring; and to provide children with a daily hot meal; to launch calls to co-finance the construction of kindergartens and schools that have already been awarded under the previous government; and not least, to make some key investments such as those in railway infrastructure, to start building homes for the elderly; and other urgent investments that cannot be stopped due to the health crisis. In the Group of Social Democrats, we also wish to find a hearing to improve when we consider the balance. By adopting them, the right coalition would prove that it hears people's hardships and constructive suggestions, even though they did not grow on its herb. I would show that it is also a real help to people, not just for ideological purposes and a thorough budgeting. In this case, we could also support the planned changes to this year's budget, or we are afraid that this balance cannot count on our support.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The text is from the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, a colleague of Monika Gregorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u22	Honourable President, Members and Members of Parliament, Honourable Minister and Government Team! We have a budget rebalancing in front of us this year. 9.2 billion euros in revenue and 13.4 billion euros in expenditure, a budget deficit of as much as €4.2 billion and 9.3% of gross social product. These are the numbers that mark this rebalancing, and for these numbers quickly, of course, you could say over your thumb that they are worrying or even alarming. The reason for them, of course, is the covida-19 epidemic. In SMC, we have never agreed to flat-rate criticism, but in difficult situations we have always recognized the main challenges, rather than the obstacles, rather than looking for solutions. And this time, too, when we adopt this balance, we are aware that we are taking it in extremely difficult or exceptional circumstances, which also require extraordinary measures. We are aware that such an increased budget deficit means a derogation from the fiscal rule, but also because of exceptional circumstances, the Green Light at national level has already turned on this by the Fiscal Council. This decision is also in line with the temporary derogation from the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact at the level of the European Union as a whole. A key response to the crisis caused by the decline in demand – because it is an external sudden unprecedented shock in history – was the rapid response of the country, i.e. the preparation of measures to mitigate the crisis, to preserve jobs and to restart economic activities. These so-called anti-korona measures have, or have, financial implications. Although the epidemic has caused an economic crisis, it cannot be compared to a financial crisis decades ago. At that time, the country had to reduce its expenditure, and this time, to successfully deal with the consequences of the crisis, the country successfully intervenes with an increase in its expenditure. The key objective was and is to protect people as much as possible. In uncertain situations, it has been necessary to adapt to new measures on an unprecedented basis on a daily basis. It was very difficult or, in fact, impossible to predict what the next day would bring, and the legal basis for ever-new measures was emerging from the point of view, and some of the measures have been subject to multiple changes. If I simplify, there was no manual, especially the economic manual, on how to act under coidepidaemia conditions. The outbreak of the epidemic also coincided with the change of power, and then the basic political hygiene, called a hundred days of peace, was weakened, much to say about the level of political culture on the part of the opposition. Part of the critical or critical public, with the encouragement of those who saw only bad in everything, saw the anticoron’s responses as inadequate, unprofessional, and even as a restriction on democracy. However, the vast majority of citizens have responded positively and are responsible for taking care of common health and social security. Of course, the numbers speak for themselves, we cannot, and we must not, close our eyes, every sick person, everyone who has lost the fight for the virus, as well as everyone who has lost their jobs or jobs, is too much, but we have no doubt that the government has responded to the situation in the country quickly, responsibly, appropriately, in all circumstances. A number of measures that did not cause the economic downturn were taken quickly. To mitigate the impact of the epidemic, up to €3.1 billion has been allocated so far, almost 19% of the total expenditure of this budget. I am talking about means to limit the negative effects of the epidemic, measures to preserve economic activity and jobs. We can say responsibly that this balance responds to the current expectations and needs of the population and the economy. This rebalancing is therefore expected to increase the spending of the Ministry of Finance by EUR 2.5 billion and the growth of the expenditure of the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Economy and Agriculture and Infrastructure. Due to uncertain and unpredictable situations, all of them, including very short-term forecasts of economic developments by the end of this year, are very uncertain for the good three months. In such situations, it is therefore logical that budget reserves items are also significantly higher than those planned. In addition to caring for a sustainable health system, care is also crucial for the recovery of the economy, which needs mainly sufficient domestic and foreign demand. Let me remind you, the tourist voucher measure has played an important and very positive role here. But the crisis can also be an opportunity for the necessary restructuring. We must not overlook the Umar report, which warns that the crisis has also shown areas where Slovenia is more vulnerable or where we have fallen asleep more or less in recent years. These are: digitalisation, sustainable development, it is better to take advantage of our strategic geographical position, because supply chains are being cut short and we need to address demographic problems and also strategically plan self-sustainment with protective medical equipment. Action must be taken to address key development challenges. We are in favour of social, development and sustainable policies in the Modern Centre Party. Ladies and gentlemen, when the 2020 budget was adopted, this was the end of November last year, and no one could imagine what lies ahead for us at the beginning of this year. The crises faced by countries so far have been somewhat similar, at least to the extent that experts have been more or less accurately forecasting them, predicting their causes and framework duration and recommending action. But this time it's different. The epidemic not only endangers our health but also our economic health, and consequently the health of our public finances. However, from the perspective of the future financial period of the European Union, we can see enough optimism in the future. A very encouraging financial package has been negotiated for Slovenia, and now the key question is: what or where do we want to be when this financial perspective ends? There is no doubt about the modern center party. We want to be a state based on five pillars. We need a successful economy, a fair social system, an excellent education system and a safe and healthy environment. We are pleased to note that this budget balance is directed so that we can recover as soon as possible from the shock of the epidemic and that we will be able to return to as normal a life as possible in the coming year. In the short term, too, no one can predict with great confidence, but with all responsibility we can say that this balance is the best compromise possible in the given situation, and that is why the Members of the Modern Centre Party will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The next one has the word of a colleague of Miha Kordiš for the Group of the Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, chairman. We have a budget rebalance that brings the biggest deficit in the history of Slovenia. At the annual level, it will amount to €4.2 billion, but the government has decided to eat health care, science, culture and voluntary firefighters. But we're going in order. To compare: when we prepared this budget, which is now the subject of the rebalancing, in cooperation with the Sharčev government last year, it was one of the hottest to end supplementary health insurance. According to the Ministry of Finance, the abolition of supplementary insurance rates would result in about 60 million deficits in the central budget, and because of these 60 million, we have even listened in the autumn to find ourselves in fiscal imbalances. We are facing a hundred times the deficit this year, and it is practically not a warning nor a serious debate. In Levica, of course, we understand that we are facing extraordinary circumstances due to the economic consequences of the epidemic, but this does not mean that the billions of measures taken by this government cannot be critically shaken. On the contrary. The consequences of government measures will be far-reaching and will have a significant impact on the country's sovereign debt and investment capacity in the coming years. The need for a thorough examination of the items and for the competent ministries to explain them is obvious. The deficit is the first criticism that we refer to the drafters of this budget. 4.2 billion minus is completely under-explanatory. The measures taken during the first seven months of this year resulted in a 2.2 billion drop and there is virtually no explanation for an additional 2 billion. What measures will this money be spent on? Why are there 2 billion, not 1 billion or 3 billion euros? We didn't get any answers at the board meeting on Saturday. The Minister of Shircel has only listed which measures have been carried out, but has not presented any projections as to what measures will be needed in these remaining months by the end of the year, nor has he analysed how effective the measures have been before. 2 billion euros is a tough topic, in short. In the case of what can be hidden in this budgetary issue, let me say the following. The analysis shows that, at a record decline in economic growth due to State aid, the liquidity reserve of companies increased by up to €600 million in the first half of the year. This is the fat from state subsidies accumulated simultaneously, as jobs have disappeared. On the question of €1.6 billion of heavy items, which he has readily reserved at his ministry for the purpose of combating covido-19, the Minister has only said that we are in exceptional circumstances due to the epidemic. Meanwhile, the coalition MPs were under the impression that this would cost us nothing because we would get 10.5 billion from the European Union. This is all a complete bluff. From the European Union, Slovenia will not get 10.5 billion, but only 3.3 billion euros in grants. The recovery fund will not run out of 5.7 billion, but only 2.1 billion, and the rest will go into loans. We have already spent these 2.1 billion euros on measures in the first half of the year. The remaining money falls away from the next seven-year EU budget, where Slovenia has 4.8 billion but will pay 3.7 billion in the same period. So 1.1 billion in seven years plus-- change. In addition, these are not funds that will flow into our budget, but money will be distributed on purpose through calls. In short, Janša and Šircelj did not win any free lunch in the European Union, as they happily lie. Most of what's coming has been spent by the government. How effectively she did it, and we don't even know it, because the Minister doesn't explain it. All we know is that he's sitting on 1.6 billion, which he'll obviously distribute as he pleases. What freedom with little money in the consistently corrupt governments of John Janša means, and so we know. By the way, for the government's two billion-dollar deficit, we could build 30,000 public rental apartments. An even more critical picture, ladies and gentlemen, is what we get when we go to look at individual items. While the government wants us to agree to spend an additional EUR 2 billion, or an additional EUR 2 billion, some key sectors suffer. Health care, for starters. Health care is essential to a successful fight against the epidemic. The government of health in the first half of the year has not been able to perform this task nearly. The waiting species are increasing, patients with chronic treatment or even diagnosis are waiting for months, but the government will continue to worsen in the second half of the year. While boasting that the budget of the Ministry of Health will increase by 140 million euros, this is not enough to cover current costs estimated at around 250 million euros. So we have an additional 2 billion deficits or spending, of which 1.6 billion are in the unspecified line of the Ministry of Finance, and health will run out. There won't be any running costs, not just for investments. Where Mrs and Mrs Janša's governments measure with such a programme, it is clear from the proposal for a fifth set of anti-korona measures – the privatisation of health care. In your sick fantasy, ladies and gentlemen, privatisation is supposed to magically solve health problems. But just the present privatisation has caused them, and it will, of course, speed them up. The outflow of doctors from the public sector will be even greater and public health will be under even greater pressure. To which, I know now, you will again respond with aspirations for even more privatisation. This, ladies and gentlemen, is all part of the budget. Are we going to keep the privatization of health care quiet? In Levika we try to prevent it with an amendment signed by all opposition parties, but it is rejected by the coalition and the government. No, we will not rest assured that the government of Janez Janša, the corrupt practices of masks and fans, is now legalizing health activities. Andrej Šircelj, current Minister of Finance, commented, as long as he was an opposition Member, that he was underdeveloped, that there was no vision in him, that there was a considerable amount of justification in his comments. But in the budget that this same Andrej Shircelj himself has put together, it's only getting worse. There is no funding limit this year, but the budget does bring a 23 millionth cut into science and an 8-millionth incision into culture. From a budgetary point of view, it is small money, and for these two sectors, these cuts are something that can be fatal. Will you continue to prevent educated young people from finding work in Slovenia? Are you going to keep playing culturers? Already more than a quarter of self-employed people in culture live below the poverty risk threshold. Why are you burning a Slovenian book and a movie? You are talking about getting out of the crisis while freezing the funds to two key cultural institutions – the Film Fund and the Public Book Agency. The only explanation for such conduct is that this is a matter of choice, your ideological choice. The budget is the best reflection of the ideology of every government, cleared of all noises and covers. And your vision of development is obvious: Slovenia with less science, Slovenia with less culture. However, we are not threatened only by the government's inability to handle the epidemic, especially in the homes of older citizens, but by the privatisation of health care, the expulsion of development and the cutting of culture. Of the 1,15 billion investments that were planned for this year, the projectun.gov.si website reported only for the poor 400 million. Well, the government is further cutting investment in Slovenian railways for as much as €110 million. At the same time, an additional €40 million is being thrown into the road line. A government that doesn't believe in climate change is really the best friend of the asphalt mafia. Last but not least, it is most surprising that the SDS, which always refers to the importance of voluntary fire companies, does not even help volunteer firefighters. All fire companies across the country have been in serious financial trouble this year. Due to the ban on the events from which they co-financed, they were also at half the income. Even though this is the biggest solidarity network in the country that was fueled by the epidemic, you left the firefighters alone. We are also dealing with this in Levica with an amendment of €7.8 million, 1% of the amount that you, ladies and gentlemen are planning to throw through the window for the purchase of unnecessary weapons. To the conclusion. The budget ahead of us brings record 4.2 billion deficits while ignoring key areas of society. Health, science and culture, despite being untied, will be even more affected this year than they have been in recent years. This unacceptable balance shows the true nature of this government. Instead of a clear vision of development and exit from the crisis, we have received a forecast of record spending without justification. We can only hope that this money will not end up again in overpaid fans, masks and pockets of individuals, but this hope is more like a fox guarding a hen. While you're licking yourselves in foxes, you're putting sand in the public eye with promises of magical billions from the European Union. And, of course, you are not even fair enough to present a real picture – it will not get 10.5 billion to fight against a couid Slovenia, as you insist, but only the essentially used 2.1 billion. In Levika, with the amendment, we try to correct at least the most nonsense as far as parliamentary procedures allow us to do so. But this dangerous balance, in which billions are disappearing, has to be rejected, and the government it has prepared has to be dismissed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u25	Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I would like you to draw the attention of the Ambassador of the Left to Article 8 of the Code of Ethics, which speaks of the dignity and respect of Members. Actually, dogs are barking and people are talking and singing and screaming and stuff.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u27	My friend Muskrich, I don't think that's it. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Look, we're not going to continue with these procedurals, because we're going to loop. My friend Muskrič [[…]] Dear Violeta Tomić, please don't speak when I speak. Please. Dear Mr Moškrič, this has not been procedural. During his speech, Comrade Kordish had nothing to do with this. If one of you considers that a code of parliamentary ethics has been violated, of course, he can make a proposal for such a procedure, but there was no dispute here. The following is the word of colleague Jožef Horvat of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u28	First of all, thank you very much for our co-worker for the infected pay phone. Dear Mr President, the Honourable Minister of Finance, dear colleagues and colleagues! The Parliamentary Group of Nova Slovenija has examined the balance of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020, the same has been done by our expert committees, and the decision is to support this budget balance. Let's see what a rebalancing in the terms of the Public Finance Act actually means, if you want to be in the Slovenian Book Language Dictionary. This is an act of the State to re-adapt the planned expenditure and expenditure of the state budget to the actual situation in the current year. Who actually dictated the actual or the real state? The real situation dictated, unfortunately, a major accident called the pandemic or the new SARS-COV-2 virus. We have always respected, and this time we also respect, the fiscal rule or interstate agreement, the fiscal pact, which, of course, in its provisions – and thus our constitutional and legal solution – takes into account the emergence of emergency situations. We have an extraordinary situation, not in a constitutional sense, but in a public financial one. It must be the epidemic that dictates these extraordinary conditions, which, of course, also has an extraordinary impact on public finances. While we accept the criticism of an increase in the country's debt, we should hear it from the current opposition first when the bank hole arose. We are to blame for the bank hole – not all of us, the bankers are to blame. How many of them are sitting behind bars today? This is now, of course, a question for another branch of power. Are we responsible for the epidemic ourselves? There's an answer no. And we in Nova Slovenija are pleased that the government has practically arrived in front of the National Assembly after 100 hours since it swore in this hall with the first marriage package, which went towards helping people and towards helping the Slovenian economy. The fact is, therefore, that the proposal for the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 is marked by the effects of covida-19, but we can be satisfied – and this assessment is given by the institutions of the European Union, not by ourselves – that Slovenia, taking into account the decline of gross domestic product in the second quarter of this year compared to the first quarter of this year, is among countries which are above averagely successful in mitigating the fall. So, on average, we are successful. The data is well known. I don't have the time to explain it to you. Another important point to be made here is that the credit rating houses have actually kept or have not worsened our country’s credit ratings. We've heard quite a few impressions that the government is somehow hiding where it's spending these funds, and so on, means to mitigate the consequences of covida-19. May I remind you that on 8 September, the Committee on Finance, which considered the Report on the extent of the reallocations carried out for the purpose of providing funds for the implementation of the measures related to the epidemic during the period from 7. 5. 2020 to 30. 6. 2020. An extremely structured, transparent report, probably over 100 pages long, was prepared by the State and there was no debate on this agenda item on the Committee on Finance. Of course, the opposition is expected and expected to ask questions – no one has debated. As far as we are concerned, the coalition or New Slovenia, things are clear to us, we have studied them, and we expect such reports to be transmitted in this form also in the future Committee on Finance. Many political, in fact all political options, all political parties talk a lot about pensions, pensions and so on. Go-vo-ri-jo. They're talking. We count the actions and this coalition is only this year, 2020, guaranteed or better said by the end of the year, will provide pensioners with additional payments, i.e. out of regular pensions, totaling around 470 million. Of course, under the condition that a law will be adopted at this meeting, which will also allow for the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions by 2%, i.e. the increase of all pensions by 2%. Thus, we have not forgotten anyone in this epidemic, even though we have listened to criticism because of the pensioners. We were pleased that we have also set a solidarity allowance for pensioners with the law. In short, together for pensioners this year, out of pensions about 470 million by the end of the year. Of course, there are appropriate criticisms that some items are reduced by budget 2020. Yes, who understands that all the activity caused by the epidemic simply could not be performed, there was no possibility, then it is normal for him to remain on that item. He's staying. Because if we look at the balance, it's a very important component of time. How long do we have till the end of the year? We have three months of effectiveness. And now we can raise an item to an abnormal height, we can give extra millions, we can give 100 million extra for research and development, let's say, but we have to ask ourselves if this money is going to be spent. Is this money going to be spent? Well, if I am already in the field of scientific research, then let me just remember a little bit: the budget balance for the previous year, 2019, 262 million; the budget balance for 2020 prepared by our government, 272 million. That's 10 million more. And let's say support for technology and development projects. Budget balance for 2019, previous government, 53 million, budget rebalance 2020, our government, 65 million. So we're giving a good 12 million more to support technology and development projects. There are precise calculations, detailed reviews of why we provided financial resources in PKP1 to PKP4 and what was the realisation. Maybe next time, but still, if we just look at jobs. Reimbursement of salaries, temporary waiting for work: 278 million and more than 147 thousand beneficiaries. And if we look at the extraordinary aid in the form of monthly basic income. It was obtained by those who were entitled to it, and there are more than 51 thousand. We gave $83 million for that. Even for the culturers. For the first time in their lives, and they may never receive a basic monthly income again. And so on. So, please, don't talk like that at the moment that the expenditure from the budget is not transparent. It's all transparent to two decimals. I repeat, New Slovenia will support this rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The text is by the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek, a colleague of Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u30	Dear colleagues! The main changes in the structure of the budget are related to the covida-19 epidemic. In the SAB, we are aware that the country must help people and the economy in the crisis. We were aware of this already in 2013, as opposed to the SDS party, which was loudly condemning any State aid at the expense of the debt. The fact is, in Slovenia, we record the highest debt of €7.6 billion. This means that each Slovenian will be in charge of about 20,000 euros. The answer to who is most in charge of the country is clear — John Janez Janša. There's also a graph that you can look at, and you see the debt, and here you see when President Alenka Bratušek was there, and now we've gone to an embarrassing 82.5% debt. I think it's clear here, and once you all stop talking about how much the government of Alenka Bratušek owed, because it was only because of the competitiveness of the previous governments and, above all, the competitiveness of the government of Janez Janša. Just like it's happening now. Here you can see everything. We do not oppose the necessary tasks in the SAB, but we recall that a few years ago, when the government did not lead Janez Janša, something terrible, leading the country into ruin. For this is what you have told us Members of the SDS, today, when you are in government, everything is clearly different. Is that true? The outlook for the 2020 rebalancing account is high in the professional public. First of all, there is a clear lack of transparency in budgetary documents. At a time when the government should deliberately turn every euro, some non-epidemic expenditure is also increasing twice as far as the budget is concerned, without being able to explain these big increases. Intransparency and inexplicable are also large-scale reserves held by the Government under the pretext of an epidemic. We have tried to prevent the disappearance of funds under the pretext of emergencies and epidemics in the SAB from taking the first intervention measures. We insisted on establishing a special budget fund. It would accurately record to the centre the expenditure necessary to put an end to the epidemic crisis. Unfortunately, we did not enjoy the support of the opposition at that time, and the confirmation that such a fund was needed today comes from the Government of prepared budgetary documents and the assessment of the Fiscal Council. In the budget's rebalancing, the government has set the country's expenditure of 13.4 billion euros, with only 9.2 billion euros in revenue. It is clear from this that the budget deficit will be as high as €4.2 billion. Historically high deficits. Interest-based expenditure rises to 25 million. Assuming that the average interest rate for the 10-year debt is 0.5% and the country's debt is 7.6 billion, we will spend an additional EUR 400 million in 10 years to pay the additional public debt interest this year. Therefore, it is important that expenditure is prudent and transparent, since the level of indebtedness will increase as a result of the interest itself. Each budget is a picture of the priority of each government. Together with the opposition, we wanted to redistribute only EUR 188 million within 13.4 billion of planned spending for highly substantial areas, but unfortunately there was no compliance in the coalition for a single supplement. In the SAB Group, with the support of the entire opposition, we advocated the Older Ageing Programme. As long as we are talking about long-term care in the law, it is essential to provide additional financial resources to programmes that make it easier for older people to stay and join society every day. We complemented our efforts to provide free masks for students, students and pensioners, preserve cultural heritage and shorten waiting types in the field of health. The epidemic has further extended the waiting species, which is why we are rightly concerned about the increase in mortality in the future, and we are even more concerned that this government does not care at all. This government takes over the fields of science, research, development and culture. Given the social and political developments in the area of culture and the media in connection with Friday's protests, this government's decision cannot be taken differently from accounting for this segment of society. The balance in resources for the book, film, art programmes and cultural heritage is worth €8.3 million. This deepens the long-standing cultural crisis that we have begun in previous governments. By confiscating resources in the area of cultural heritage, this government gives us a clear signal that it does not only have a sense of preserving what is of great national importance, but does not have any development vision in this area. Investments in cultural heritage are a multiplier of the development of other activities that have a positive impact on the economic development of Slovenia. In view of the fact that there are four months left by the end of 2020, it is essential that these funds be provided for the continuation of the planned works already started. That is why in the SAB Group, together with the entire opposition, we have proposed a supplement with which we repay some more than 2 million funds to cultural heritage, historical and book materials. In the SAB Group, we once again call on the Government to introduce cultural vouchers to help the very affected and impoverished sector of culture. They could finance tickets or family tickets, including Postojna Cave, Park Škocjanska Caves, Lipico and other attractions. The scientific, research and development cuts of EUR 35 million also indicate the lack of development of this government. Slovenia is in Europe at the very bottom of its investment in research and development and it is therefore unacceptable to reduce these funds further. In order to recover the funds, the SAB worked together with the entire opposition, but there was no obedience to these additions by the coalition. In the SAB, we stress that we are not critical of the necessary responsibility to help the country and people. However, we are critical to the intransparency of the budget documents, which suggest that public money is going under the pretext of an epidemic and that the consequences of such behaviour will be repaid for decades. We estimate that the rebalancing is not ambitious, but at the very least it is development-oriented. What's the biggest problem is that the government can't show us the way our country will take us back on track. It is because of all the above-mentioned budget balance that we cannot support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The next Mr Robert Polnar will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The budgetary strategy in the budget balance presented for 2020 is completely contrary to the strategy envisaged when the original text is adopted. At that time, fiscal consolidation was considered the point of Archimedes's overall state economic policy. With today's rebalancing, the government formalises an active rescue budget package six months ago to mitigate and limit the consequences of the pandemic. In both cases, we have been and are faced with the need for action, but the order and their combination are subject to different views. Both the theoretical consistency of their clarification and the clarity of the response and the credibility of the rescue workers are lost in the confusion of the sliding and changing crises. This is how we treat the banking and financial crisis, the second social crisis and unemployment, for the third time, we are worried about growth and competitiveness. Then suddenly we want to get rid of the budget deficit and the public debt. Looks like we're going around more and more in a vicious circle. Governments against financial markets, corporations against market regulation, trade unions against employers, young people's interests against the old. We're all up against everything, and no one's up for it anymore. Everyone would save themselves at the expense of others. At the same time, we are confused by the misunderstanding of our own changing interests and preferences, and we do not know whether what we want is even realistic. The central problem is becoming a political balance between economic conflicts, the political sustainability of the search for economic exits from the crisis. The common denominator of all these transfers of economic responsibility to others is the moral hazard of this crisis. Moral gambling means that the interests of the community are hidden by the interests of individual groups or individuals, that the community settles their accounts and covers private risks. In terms of economic policy management, the government must not set too many targets in relation to the number of instruments available and the options for action in order to avoid the traps of economic policy management, where their effects do not come at the same time as measures and their costs. Coordination of public revenue and expenditure is the most important task of budgetary policy in a particular financial year. This year's budget rebalancing is incomparable to any other in the past, as it has arisen in the circumstances of social, economic, financial, generally stated pervasive damage caused by the epidemic. For two and a half months, the functioning of citizens, citizens and the whole country has been largely halted. For this reason, the Government is planning expenditure of €13 billion and €391 million, which is 3 billion and 479 million more than planned by the budget adopted. The revenue of the budget rebalancing is estimated on the basis of amended macroeconomic baselines and also on newly defined tax, non-tax and other income policies. In relation to the adopted budget, total revenue is reduced by €1 billion and €583 million, which is less than 15% less than planned. The estimated value is 9 billion and 189 million. There is virtually no account in the revenue structure, at least not in which there is an important component for the whole, where no significant decline would be planned. Except for recent revenues, where the Ministry of Finance has created an additional EUR 196 million in revenue using various financial instruments and their time coordination. At this stage, the Government does not replace tax revenue losses with new tax resources. It is therefore implementing a neutral fiscal policy that has a major role to play in promoting economic recovery. Members of the Desus Group are convinced that in the structure of total revenue it is necessary to pay particular attention to those tax types that represent the most important sources of budget funding. These are in order: value added tax, income tax, excise duty and corporate income tax. Under the circumstances, there is no room for experimenting with tax rates and their negative consequences for the implementation of fiscal measures. Only value added tax, for example, represents 38% of the total budget revenue. Expenditure is planned for a poor €3 and a half billion higher than in the original proposal. This is a state consumption that replaces reduced household consumption and has a secondary objective of contributing to the conditions for creating new economic growth. The Communication is clear: the state intervention, the largest in Slovenian economic history, is more evenly deploying the payment of the current crisis, we need more private and more public consumption. In this donor economy, however, it is not only how much we give, but how we do it and who participates. Therefore, the resolution or resolution of the epidemiological crisis is a civil and not just a political economic issue. Interest expenditure is 25 million higher and is 776 million euros. Compared to the expenditure achieved in the final budget account for 2019, they are lower than the negative 9 million, which is an indication of the lower borrowing costs. Direct co-operation amounts to €2 billion and €582 million, while indirect action amounts to an additional €500 million, where unemployment benefits are increased, income losses are covered, or pension and health bills are increased. The balance of the budget has a strong social orientation. Transfers to individuals and households are higher than €460 million. The budget was projected at €331 million, €792 million and €792 million. Much more than twice the previously mentioned value, while 922 million euros are allocated to subsidies. After the adopted budget of 522 million, after the rebalancing of 444 million. These are expenditure intended to support economic operators in maintaining jobs. In the Desus Group, we especially stress an increase in the state budget expenditure for co-financing the pension fund by €215 million. The approved budget was estimated at 940, a balance of 1 billion and 155 million. Nobody thinks of restricting the social rights of pensioners. This year, regular pension coordination was carried out by 3.2%, representing EUR 172 million. Pensioners with a pension of up to €700 were paid a solidarity allowance of €66.5 million. A regular annual allowance of EUR 138 million has been paid, and at this meeting we will decide on an extraordinary annual reconciliation of pensions of 2%, worth approximately EUR 95 million. And all this, ladies and gentlemen, is not self-evident, but it is due to political decisions in times of extremely severe crisis. It is therefore good to recall in memory of 2012, 2014 and 2015 when no pension coordination was carried out. In Slovenian politics, we have learned something from the past financial crisis – the idea that reducing public spending and deficits will accelerate economic growth and boost the confidence of financial markets is stupid. When a country corrects its budget by saving, the budgets of households and companies shall inevitably suffer. The central message of our day here and now is: nature is stronger than economics. They are so strong in these circumstances, they are small and poor. And we can only hope that the strength of the people will fill this tragedy with solidarity and a common development opportunity. Slovenia's problem is not so much a macro-economic choice of measures, but a political ability to implement them. Therefore, because of the tragedy of common – and the epidemic is a tragedy of common – cooperation is essential. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Desus Group will unanimously support the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u33	Thank you very much. As the last position of the SNS Group, Mr Dušan Šiško will be presented.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. The Honourable Minister and everyone else present! In the preparation of the budget for 2020 and 2021, we have already drawn attention to the extremely high expenditure in the Slovenian National Party. Minister Bertonsel boasted of record incomes and did not give any particular significance to record expenditure. He has also consistently ignored our questions about the reduction of budgetary expenditure. Once again, revenues are always an assessment and the assessment of revenues for 2020 was wrong. Yeah, there's been an unforeseeable outbreak. If the government had not taken such strict measures to contain the epidemic, the fall in revenues might not have occurred at all. Budget expenditure for the coming years is almost always the case. As a result of the measures taken to contain the epidemic, they have increased enormously. We don't think these expenses should be so inflated. We have already warned the current government in the Slovenian National Party in March of this year that the budgetary expenditure to help the economy and the people should be carefully considered. We think the country was too generous. Many budget allocations were made to those who did not need them at all. The question is how much assistance did the economy really need if many companies have full bank accounts. All economists praised the Slovenian economy, as it is ready to cool down this time, to the fall of GDP due to the epidemic. An entrepreneur who has no reserve for at least three months is a very bad entrepreneur. We should only help those economic industries that have been seriously affected, and these are tourism, catering, organisation of events. The government has shown itself by the introduction of tourist vouchers, this must be acknowledged. Most economies, however, have only saved some money at the expense of state aid, which the owners will pay in the form of profits in the second year. Most of the Slovenian economy had sufficient resources for three months to take the most stringent measures to contain the epidemic. The question is also how many Slovenians really needed financial assistance at the time of the declared epidemic, since we were all mostly at home. There has been no impact on the population's budget expenditure. If you just give people something, it's lost money. The country should view its people as an investment. This means that we should equip them with knowledge and motivation to work, invest in their knowledge and in new, better jobs so that these people will be able to cope with the financial shocks themselves in the next crisis. We have one big problem in Slovenia. This is to find out who in Slovenia needs budgetary resources and why. On the one hand, we have real young rich people. Slovenians have saved more than €21 billion in banks. Slovenian companies have billions of euros in their bank accounts. According to some information, Slovenian pensioners are expected to own most properties in Slovenia. Let us not forget that these properties are also worth billions of euros. On the other hand, we have many poor children and pensioners. How is that even possible in the same country, among 2 million people? Obviously, Slovenian policy has not yet learned that most of the money that the state gives to people is being saved and not spent. Then our economists say that consumption has increased – not true, not in Slovenia. We have pensioners who are able to save 500 euros of their pension for times of distress. We save the Slovenians hugely because we have our own properties, because quite a few of the food came from our gardens and also from the forests. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that more spent resources should be spent on worker protection equipment in order to be able to work ahead and on safe jobs in order not to close businesses. Have we built enough health facilities in the last six months to provide all the infected? No! No! I hope we have at least enough medical equipment and supplies now to help the infected. If we did not take such strict measures to contain the epidemic that led to the cessation of economic activity, we would have more revenue and less expenditure. We do not claim that the government has not been successful in the fight against the epidemic, but we argue that we could spend less on the budget. This year alone, our country is in debt for 7 billion. Dear colleagues, 7 billion. Taking into account another 28 billion debts from past years, we are again in debt. If the budget were to be invested, so it would be reimbursed in the form of an economic impact, then there is no problem, and so the state granted the so-called grants. This certainly wasn't the most important move. From today's point of view, it was a completely insane requirement for a constitutional review of the 2019 budget rebalancing when we had a budget surplus. Today, we have 4.2 billion deficits, and no one is making similar demands for constitutional review. Sooner or later, austerity measures will be needed to reduce public debt, which usually affects those with the lowest income. It is very unusual in the budget to see so much increase in wages for public servants, although most of the civil servants were at home at the time of the epidemic. If we were still able to talk about emergency situations in the spring, it is no longer so today, it must not be so today. The epidemic is among us again, the infections are rising from day to day, so we will have to live and adjust our work. It will not be enough to make excuses for emergency situations, this is our everyday situation, so the economic policy of the country must be focused on safe work and work must no longer be limited. There are important reforms in the field of labour market, social protection, long-term care, the health system, the financial and fiscal system, the reduction of administrative barriers. When we talk about labour market reform, we do not understand what we are talking about in the Slovenian National Party. We must first adopt the basics — that is, that the worker must be paid with dignity and that he must receive the pay at all. We do not have enough skilled workers because we have the wrong economic strategy. If all young people are highly educated today, we would also need such an economy, and we have production where foreign workers work. I wouldn't lose words about long-term care. If we hadn't wasted all the former social property, if we hadn't sold out all state-owned enterprises, if we had eliminated corruption, we would have had enough resources for pensions and long-term care. There will be no reform of the health system because no health minister hopes to oppose corrupt suppliers and doctors. Our doctors have 400 hours each month. Whoever's been working 200 hours a month can't handle it for more than a few years. But our doctors can do anything. They work 400 hours a month, pay more than 10,000 euros, work afternoons, work weekends, work with privates, work in colleges, teach at pharmaceutical conferences, and have 60 days off. This way, dear colleagues, he can't go. Over the years, millions of people have been in health care, and none of them have been affected. The waiting species are getting longer. Every government promises to remove administrative obstacles, but we still stand in line with the authorities, the phones are still ringing empty or the public servants are 5 times over because they do not know who is responsible for what. The individual should be allowed to access all public databases and submit all applications electronically by a single number, such as an EMSO or a tax number. We still have so much red tape. Let me mention Furs, where staff still require all possible data, even though they have all the data. Since inspectors are untouchable and taxing everything in order, it turns out after years that they have acted unlawfully. If you come personally to the administrative unit in Ljubljana, they say you have to order. You get a phone number, then you call them and nobody answers again. It's an impossible situation. It's a vicious circle. No one gets a call from the ministries during the official hours. You know, it's good, at least, that they have automatic answers and you hear a gentle woman's voice. [[…]] At least that'll relieve you a little bit. It is very difficult for ordinary citizens to reach public servants who should help people. That way they don't answer the phone, they don't have information, they connect the phone lines. This is not a service to the citizens. It's not really a service. Slovenia has in three EU sources a regular EU budget, a recovery plan, a pandemic package, reserved record 11.3 billion euros. Attention, reserved! This does not mean that these funds will be granted automatically by the Republic of Slovenia, but it has the opportunity to draw on these funds and use them wisely. But watch out! Slovenia has not yet drawn EUR 1.8 billion from the EU budget for the period 2014-2022. This, in our opinion, shows that past governments have been poor in their use of European funds. And we are in September 2020 and there is no longer much time left to draw this out. So it's money, you have to have ideas and good projects. If the Slovenian policy had a long-term vision, each Minister of Finance would come to the National Assembly and tell us where all the savings in the budget, whose costs he has reduced, how many public servants he has forgiven because they have been working too little or no longer necessary, which are all bureaucratic obstacles that the Government has eliminated, how many foreign investments the Government has brought to Slovenia. With us, the Minister of Finance is simply proposing new and new taxes and other taxes. Neither the economy nor the working population can work solely to cover government deficits. People want to breathe what they deserve, get something. Let me finish. In the Slovenian National Party, we are aware that the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 is intended only, I stress, to simply align the adopted budget with the actual situation. We accept something that will only take effect for the last three months, because we are already in September, mid-September 2020. Therefore, we will not oppose the proposal for a budget rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on individual parts of the proposal for a rebalancing. As an individual part, the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing, the specific part of the proposal for a rebalancing and the development programme plan shall be considered. We are moving on to the debate on the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing. He was the first to ask for the floor, Mr. Minister. Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u36	Thank you very much. My response is directed at some of the views of the parliamentary groups. Here I would mention in particular that it is technically possible to compare the balance of the previous government, the government of Marjan Šarc, with the budget presented by this government, the government of Janez Janša. But only technically. It can only be numerical if you do not take into account the fact that we had a declared epidemic and that acute health, social, economic conditions are still taking place today or are still in force today. Life is different both in the economic, social and social spheres, which makes the comparison without content, I think, only technical, numerical, where you can compare on one side the surplus, on the other hand the deficit. And it would probably be the same as it was then, even now, if there wasn't a covida. That's what I said. I'm not talking about the same thing here. This rebalancing shows reality, says reality. The previous budget did not show the reality today because it could not. Because no one predicted there would actually be an epidemic. So from this point of view, this comparison, once again, can be technical but not substantive, or, in other words, not substantively comparable. Not exactly, as a result, a debt. Whether the debt is excessive or not — indebtedness is a major source of funding to us today for the extraordinary expenditure caused by the epidemic, both direct and direct. We finance jobs, we finance jobs. These measures, which are laid down in the laws of the PKP from 1 to 4 and will now come to 5 are intended for this purpose. And they're designed to ensure human health. Here I think there is a broad consensus on why this money should be spent. In the third part of the budget, you have the amounts that have been paid according to individual measures. All the amounts are plausible, comparable. The Government shall continuously send to the National Assembly specific tables, records, content as to how this money is spent to the Commission for the supervision of public finances. The Finance Committee of this National Assembly has considered redeployments, all redeployments this year. Unfortunately, there was no debate by Members on this and this point was adopted very quickly. But there were more than 100 pages of material. So it's hard to talk about transparency here. I can also, as I am on the Committee on Finance, repeat once again how many beneficiaries, how many people have benefited from a measure. Intervention measure Reimbursement of wages, temporary waiting for work: 147 000 466 beneficiaries. Monthly base income: 51 000 495 beneficiaries. Exemption from the payment of contributions to the pension and disability insurance of employees working: 479 thousand 13 beneficiaries. And so on. If anyone's interested, all this information is available and public. Comparison with the 2008-2009 crisis and consequently 2012 and 2013. We can technically compare certain numbers, but the reasons for that crisis and the current crisis are completely different and the characteristics of the previous crisis are completely different and the resolution of the previous financial crisis was completely different. At that time, increased credits, increased consumption, balloons were created, and then liquidity was reduced. I'm talking about 2007, 2008, and then eventually 2012. Today we have great liquidity for both the population and the economy, some of which you mentioned. Population consumption has decreased in the crisis and, on the other hand, economic consumption has increased as a measure. Liquidity is great, satisfactory. From this point of view, once again, you can technically compare everything, but these are some memories of the past decade, economic, economic, social, however, but only memories remain, but there is no comparison. I think that I have answered the opposition Members more than five times or almost ten times, whether there will be a new buzzer or a new buzzer. I take it as part of the intimidation of the public, “see, it will happen again as it happened in 2008, there will be smaller pensions again”, and so on. As you can see, even because of the nature of this crisis there is no such thing. But there is a deficit, which is a historical deficit, as you say, of 4.2 billion. By the way, some of the proposals, including the opposition, have been assessed. If these proposals were adopted, the deficit would be nearly a billion 700 million more. The deficit would not be 4 billion 200, it would be close to 6 billion. For example, a measure of universal basic income, even three months old, would also increase the deficit by more than half a billion, given the increased spending. So, of course, there is an increase in consumption here on the one hand, on the other hand an increase in the deficit if anything can be done. But that is what this measure would actually bring if we were talking about the basic income of EUR 100 per month, taking into account three months. And we take into account that 35 million would actually be reimbursed for value added tax due to this measure. 35 million a month, which means something over 100 million three months. And at the same time, of course, the deficit would be even greater. Here I am talking about some of the measures the coalition has not taken, but these were proposals for opposition measures. Why are there such reserves? We are talking about these 953 million euros. Simply because the epidemic or acute state of health due to the virus is not over. Because we do not know what will happen in the area of the population infected with this virus. And as long as there is no cure or vaccine for this virus, the risk is likely to be higher and there will be a need for some reserves. Because if the epidemic in Slovenia and Europe is even more widespread, if it is even stronger, it can also affect financial markets and interest, which would logically increase at a time like this. In other words, it's a liquidity reserve for bad times if you want. Possible bad times that no one wants. However, it would be irresponsible of this government not to foresee such a scenario if it did not happen. I have already mentioned that the value added tax revenues in July and August indicate the stabilisation of private consumption at the level of 2019 and that these sources are increasing. I expect them to increase also in September and by the end of the year if there are no unforeseen measures due to the health situation. The payment scheme, there's a lot of talk about it. Here we have to tell how this guarantee scheme works. Business banks decide to place a certain credit on the guarantee scheme, and this credit map will be submitted to the SID bank if you want. A business bank can do that, but it can't do that. Loans are received by companies classified in category A or B, so it is said to be good companies and business banks can give their own credit without a guarantee. And that's actually what's happening. That's what's going on. It's the liquidity of the economy. Even if you are looking at data from Banka Slovenije, then you are showing that liquidity has even increased, even here someone mentioned, it has increased by 600 million over a certain period of time. So I just want to show you the realistic data, the realistic situation where we really are. And of course I'm not saying that some company, some independent entrepreneur today, has no credit issues. It may have them, but the financial system and liquidity are stable for the country as a whole. If we are talking about whether this is a development budget or not, I have already mentioned this on the Committee – this budget is particularly social. Social and health care was a lot of money to save people, people's health and to alleviate the social situations created by covida-19. The question is also here if we are looking at the institutional part of the budget, that the two ministries have less money, or at least it has been mentioned that they have less money. These are culture, science, and then non-governmental institutions. And a comment about that. This is the annual budget, and here are the annual expenditure. This is not a three-month budget. Some, I have a feeling that they think this is a three-month budget for the future – no, this is an annual budget. And this annual budget did not result in certain actions being carried out that were planned. It didn't go to an international fair because the fair was canceled because of a covid. As a result, the money was not spent and therefore this money was transferred to 2020. It's about culture. Or transferred to cohesion. Even in the field of science. School lunches were mentioned. This government is supposed to give 11 million less for school lunches. This budget shows the situation. There were no school meals because schools were closed, and this is reflected in the budget. We can't say that school lunches were if they weren't there. We can't spend money on lunches that aren't that kids haven't received. This may sound completely different, if we say so now, yes, and Janez Janša's government gives less for school meals. Schools were closed and they weren't there. They were special measures. For this reason, once again, I am talking about the fact that this budget shows the reality, it cannot show the reality. Other institutions such as the Fiscal Council, the Court of Auditors, the KPK, the Audit Commission and so on, have been listed here, get less. All non-governmental institutions receive as much as they have proposed or requested if you wish. One euro was not taken from anyone by the Ministry of Finance or by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this area. However, they have made a real assessment of their needs in the given situation. And if certain institutions were completely or partially closed, they did not work because of the Coronavirus, because of the epidemic, and because they did not work, they did not spend. This isn't about ideology. This isn't about ideology. It's about reality and reality. We can't say that something was wasted if it wasn't. By providing further information from this point of view, I can give them even more precisely in this regard. Why do we have a deficit of 4.2 billion? Because this allows us the Fiscal Rule Act, where the Fiscal Council is also defined. That's why we have him. And the Fiscal Rule Act in Article 12, paragraph 1, provides that at such times exceptions to the classic fiscal rule must be equal to income. And this has been approved both by the Fiscal Council and at European level. For the time being, this is expected to be approved for 2021, at least in Europe. And that's why we have this deficit, not because Janez Janša's government came. The other government would probably have a deficit. It would probably work in this direction to provide additional money for human health and to increase expenditure. If not, I suggest you tell me someone else would have done it. It can also be different – not to give extra money, with reduced revenues for human health and social security. I'm the only one who doesn't believe there's anyone here in the National Assembly to defend it. From this point of view, such a policy is justified in my view, but of course it is also the responsibility of this government and the Finance Minister to remedy the situation in question, to begin to reduce this deficit when the situation is normal and when the epidemic is no longer a threat. So from this point of view, the Ministry of Finance and Government also points to this. Analyses. You want an analysis, the Left wants an analysis of the money spent. The measures are still ongoing, and how the measures work, is also analysed from a social and economic perspective. The Minister of Labour estimated that we had prevented more than 200,000 people from being unemployed. It is estimated that many companies have remained on the market, that many companies are operating today because of these measures. This is also indicated by the European Commission. The Fiscal Council considered that the decrease of the gross social product by 1.5 percentage points would have been lower than it would have been if there had been no such measures. These analyses exist. They will also be made definitive because the measures are still in place. That it is a bluff to get European money – I cannot agree with it and I also reject those who say we are lying. Without any basis, they're talking about it. The money goes to an unknown place — that is what has been said today. For each euro, we can prove where the money went, we prove it in the National Assembly, we write reports to the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, we propose documents to the Committee on Finances, which it also deals with, and we can explain anything. So to speak of money going unknowable where it is, I'll say, unfounded, without a basis. From this point of view, I would like to provide these additional explanations or provide further clarifications in response to some of the views of the groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I'm opening the first round of motions for discussion. Please sign in. We have 10 interviewees reported. As the first one gets the word, Mr Aljaž Kovacič, prepare the mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The budget is what it is. Every government that prepares it claims that it is good, that it is the most optimal, but we will judge it in the future, what will the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia get from this budget. The fact is, numbers don't lie. The deficit, as the minister said, is €4.2 billion, or 2.3 GDP, which means that each citizen of the Republic of Slovenia is in charge of an additional €2,000. We know what the minimum wage is in Slovenia, we know what the average wage is in Slovenia, and it is not difficult to calculate how much each Slovenian should put aside if he could even give to cover this debt if I could call it that. The fact is, Mr. Secretary, that no one claims that you are working under the same conditions as the government of Marjan Sarca. Above all, we are talking about the difference that the government of Marjana Sharca has produced, saying a little less than half a billion. We're talking about saying something about your duality. So, when the budget was very much at stake, you put it into a constitutional judgement that was rejected by the Constitutional Court, and now it is not a problem for the state to delegate. We are aware that, on the one hand, they are a state of emergency and that this can be legally permitted, but we must also point out that sometimes we did not have a fiscal rule, but we know where some of the heads of government have taken our country and how many years it took to get to the green branch. As far as the budget is concerned, I will primarily talk about an area that we have somehow called brain weight loss in the Marjan Sarca List. That is where your government takes all those who should give them so that they can come out of this crisis more successfully. You are taking or making an incision in scientific research, it is called a scientific research activity, the aspect where it is being explored, where people will also explore for the so-called new covid-19 drug, is said to all scientists working in different fields and can also help in this crisis. In view of the status of young researchers in Slovenia in particular, they are unlikely to have any good prospects in the future or to go abroad even more. Not only this government, but in general politics shows duality in sports as well. Yesterday, Members of the National Assembly proudly applauded the success of Slovenian sport, while Slovenian politics has been neglecting sport in general for more than 30 years. Representatives of the highest branch of government would like to be photographed with such and different sports successes, when there is some financial incentive, and any athlete in Slovenia could talk about how much he was given from the country to achieve such success. And we have also warned about this in the List of Marjana Sarca, when it was given to various people in the PKP, that in fact sport has been completely forgotten. In Slovenia we have maybe up to five professional clubs at the highest level, all the rest are semi-professional clubs that actually live on sponsoring funds. We know what the state of business is today and how capable they are of giving some kind of sport collective. At the same time, at the recommendation of the NIJZ and these governments, in fact all these semi-professional clubs and clubs in Slovenia in general must not have viewers at their games in order to earn at least something. And if there was a club with 800 people, more than this hall in the past, and today 100 viewers can be brought to the stands, you can calculate how much money this club receives — not even enough to cover the delegates and judges. So the clubs are working minus and here again the sport has been forgotten, both in all the PKP and in this budget. That we don't even talk about objects that are somehow in local communities. I hope that the next time everyone likes to brag and enjoy the success of Slovenian sport, which is in the first place the success of each individual, everyone will also write about what he proposes to do to help sport. Because we need to know, right now or this week we started celebrating, if I may say so, a week of sports. He was also president of the International Olympic Committee yesterday in Slovenia. How many young people are involved in sports and rarely will any of these young people become a professional athlete. But first of all, it's kind of healthy for the body, if I can express myself in the way that it was expressed in ancient Greece. Above all, we must not afford to see all these groups fail, because we know how many young people are involved in sports and enjoy these sports collectives. The second branch that you completely forgot about, I don't think, as much as sports unplanned, but planned. Since the competent minister runs the Ministry of Culture, he is doing everything he can to actually destroy culture in Slovenia, I am not surprised what you have forgotten, if I may say so. Like all sports clubs, sports competitions have been completely closed for months in Slovenia. In fact, they still cannot provide the same number of participants at their events as they have in the past. For example, SNG Maribor, which belongs to the world quality summit itself – even by the number of employees, I think it is among the largest, if not the largest, institution in Slovenia – has not already had 100 per cent of its employees' salaries covered. And if we know that there can be 20% of the participants at one theatre performance, as many as there were before, I wonder where they will get the funds for the salaries of their employees and where they will get the funds so that they can continue to develop. Not to mention any event organisers who can still organise nothing. The organizers of the event are those who are usually hidden in the background at an event, it is said that an event is organised. I don't know who all of them are, some technical masters, lanterns, all those who are more than penile workers who have espaes, have actually been living for months and months, because they can't organize a full-scale event. I hope that money will be found here, but I doubt that the Ministry of Culture or Minister of Culture is probably the only minister in the world that supports his ministry getting less money than in the past. Less money is also devoted to the protection of cultural heritage, which points again to some duality. On the one hand, he wants to start tourism, but what do tourists go to watch? Some cultural heritage. We know what a picture of cultural heritage is in Slovenia. I think that we have already had two or three meetings in this mandate regarding the stadium of Plečnik, which is far from the only cultural object in Slovenia that is not only failing, but has completely failed culturally. I wonder – given that we are shrinking again, we must be aware that once the cultural heritage fails, it is very difficult to restore it, but it can also fail, that it is not actually possible to return it. It is also tourism on the one hand – that people go to see these sights. And if they're not there, they'll probably be home any more. The third thing you always let go, forget it, they're young. Probably because young people are so irresponsible that they don't go to the polls enough and they're not as interesting an election base as they are older people who have more regular elections in them. When we had these PKPs, I warned you, Mr Minister, that you would save much more on young people than you would give them. This is what is shown in the budget or figures mentioned above. The country has taken a huge amount of money from young people, all it has given them is that it has given students and students 150 euros. As I said before, on average, young people earned much more than they got. Yes, I agree that you also have in the budget less money for student vouchers, which is logical, because young people for three or four months could not eat through student vouchers. Still, these young people had expenses, since they also had to eat something at home, so to speak, they gave some of their financial resources so that they could even eat every day. Given that the student spends an average of 500 euros per month, according to Eurostudent's survey, you gave them a one-off amount of 150 euros divided by 3 means that the student and the student should survive with 50 euros of monthly money. You've also been pinched in scholarships. In the budget, you anticipate 10 million euros less for scholarships. While the competent ministry claims that scholarships will be paid to anyone who comes into these criteria to get them, I wonder if Zois' scholarships are the same. The Ministry responsible for this area has warned us in the List of Marjan Šarca that if you do not take into account the outstanding achievements of students and students for the last calendar school year, many young people may lose this scholarship. Here, too, I wonder if you have any information as to whether any of you have lost the scholarship because of this criterion or why 10 million euros have been paid less. Is it actually so much less poor if I can put it this way that you've re-joined 10 million euros? And a third thing that's not most encouraging for young people. You have invested a lot of money in keeping jobs, as you claim. I'd say you didn't keep them, but you've frozen them more, because in the last year, compared to last year's year's year, unemployment has increased by more than 20%. It is said that more than 20% more are unemployed, so then your thesis that you have kept your jobs, but you have only frozen them for that short time. Why am I talking about this? Because at the same time in the budget you have reduced funds to encourage employment. So young people who find it difficult to get a job have taken this incentive so that they can get a job. This is another proof that young people will live hard in the years to come, just as they have lived hard after Zuyph. I hope that it will not happen that we will lose many many generations who could not create their own home, are unable to secure their jobs and are actually lost in life.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Master Dusan Verbič, prepare for Mrs Susana Pretty Šimenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. What a lovely greeting, the Minister of Finance and others present! For the intro. I will be very much committed, Madam Vice-President, to what you have highlighted – to discuss the general part of the 2020 budget rebalancing. In the introduction, I will point out, but I am sure that several more times, the essence of this, simply stated, is to correct the existing current budget, with great emphasis on talking about just three months this year. I cannot help but touch on the words, with careful attention to the presentations of the groups of Members, that this presentation, in a number of cases, was intended for its potential voters from the political party's programme and very little or little to do with the agenda, and this is a rebalancing of the budget for 2020. Here I immediately emphasize, I repeat, we are talking about the budget for just three months this year. I must also point out the following immediately. Those of us who wanted and wanted to hear the content of the reason for this budget were presented in detail by the Minister of Finance. But I'm talking about content, reasons, objective facts. And speaking of him, I would like to point out two key points that I think are very important to the Members of the National Assembly right now. For the first time, he stated: the financial system in the Republic of Slovenia is stable. And that's really important. Secondly, the proposal for the 2020 budget rebalancing is based on a realistic and objective basis. I think that we are aware of this regardless of how individual Members, whether position or opposition, are thinking about individual programme items. I believe this is crucial, these two statements by the Minister of Finance. Since I mentioned these introductory presentations of individual parliamentary groups earlier, what is the key point of the proposal for a rebalancing for 2020? If I'm very squeamish, that's just two things. The first is the fall of gross domestic product. This observation, I can tell, is not based on objective facts. And second point: over-indebted. Here I must admit right away – it is most likely that Members who will continue to discuss this are not in agreement – that they simply ignore it and give no attention to an objective fact at all. This objective fact for this budget rebalancing is covid, we can say an epidemic or simply a so-called virus. Still, a few words about this general work. The fact is that this general part is made up, as is somehow evident from the material, from the income and expenditure balance, and the second part is the development programme plan. If I use a few words to focus on the balance of revenue and expenditure. It has been said many times that on the revenue side it is far from planned, but this is what I have just mentioned – very clear objective facts why this has happened. Directly related to this, we have so-called expenditure, but which far exceeded expectations. This is directly related, as I just mentioned. It is logical and essential that this correction has taken place, and that is the essence of this budget balance. The fact is that in the adopted budget, now in force for 2020, the budget revenue projections were based on the macroeconomic baselines of the 2019 Umar's autumn forecast and were also based on the realisation of revenues for that year. The fact is, we simply cannot avoid that these starting points have been substantially changed in the course of this year. This is a key reason and what I have already mentioned is an objective fact that we are discussing this point of the agenda. However, I must admit that I also missed a little more words on the second part of the general work on the 2020 development agenda. Despite the fact that almost nothing has been discussed on this subject, I must admit that I am pleased that this proposal for a development programme is an integral part of the 2020 budget balance of the Republic of Slovenia, even though we are only talking about these good three months. What I want to point out is that this area has not been neglected and the continuity of the development programme plan from 2020 to 2023 is also included in this balance. Given that we have also been briefed by the President of the Fiscal Council on the position he has presented – the position of the Fiscal Council is, if I may say so, very good and positive. The fact is that the President of the Fiscal Council presented to us the assessment that the declaration of the epidemic in Slovenia was a so-called unusual event, which, under the second paragraph of Article 12 of the Fiscal Rule Act, allows for the imposition of exceptional circumstances for measures aimed at mitigating the consequences of such an event and, consequently, a derogation from the medium-term balance of public finances. What was very important to me is his message that the Government has prepared this draft amending the 2020 budget in accordance with Article 12 of the Fiscal Rule Act. Given that the debate is very small, and at the very least by the opposition, it mentions the reason, I will also repeat here a bit of the presentation and the words of the Minister of Finance, for what and in what part is the so-called increased use of money. As stated, the rebalancing takes into account the sharp decline in budgetary revenues, while at the same time increasing expenditure due to the government's measures already taken solely to limit the negative impact of the epidemic on the economy and the population. And here are two segments. One segment in this proposal is the rebalancing of funds intended to mitigate the epidemic and eliminate the epidemic, and in particular the intervention measures to compensate for wages, is a temporary wait for work. Then the exemption for all social security contributions to persons on temporary leave, exceptional assistance in the form of monthly basic income. I could also mention it, but I think that we are more or less Members as familiar with such matters if we are to be familiar with these matters or to be familiar with them. Here I would mention another thing that's important in modern times, tourist vouchers and the like. In the second part, as regards these intervention measures in the balance sheet, I will mention only two matters. This increases the average of municipalities from the current 589.1 euros to 624 euros. I will not lose words here, because we are very well aware of what this means for the Slovenian municipalities, which have raised the average. I am also pleased with the following area, namely the ongoing implementation of cohesion policy in the light of the situation. I believe that there will probably be no significant shifts in these three months, but given the intensity of the activity, we can expect something else to happen by the end of the year in this area. I must admit, as far as this budget is concerned, that we can also be satisfied, because the positive position of the State Council towards this balance is good, and we have also learned – that the State Council supports the proposal for a rebalancing. To conclude, however, I would like to make a few words to the so-called financial or credit, whatever, relationship that was already mentioned on the parental committee and even today. The fact is that the Republic of Slovenia and the Government in financial circles, in global financial markets – admittedly – enjoys a relatively high degree of confidence. This is also reflected in the process of borrowing the Republic of Slovenia. I believe that a lot of us can look at things differently here, but that's the specifics. This is also demonstrated by the level of the interest rate on individual credit relations. We can be quite optimistic, given that the interest rate here is about zero or zero. That is why I think this is encouraging and it is right for the Government or the Minister of Finance to take advantage of this situation, because this is very beneficial from the point of view of the debt at this moment. As this will be in the coming times, virtually no one knows, so I am in the position that this needs to be done rationally. This is mainly because – let's remember what the so-called interest rates were for the indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia on global markets in 2012 and in the coming years. I agree that the circumstances, the facts of the crisis were in a completely different constellation, but the reality is that it must also be exploited. Therefore, I believe that it is necessary to make use of the Republic of Slovenia for the good of the country and, as it is said, to be in charge of the global financial markets. To the conclusion. I believe that it is necessary to support and adopt this budget for the next three months. Also in reviewing the second part of the general part of this act, I am of the view that this is based on principle and on the basis presented in the introduction by the Minister of Finance, it is said that it is based on a realistic and objective basis. And if I finish, it follows that the financial system in the Republic of Slovenia is stable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko, and Mrs Mag is preparing. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives of the government! I believe that none of us, and not even the then government, a year ago when the 2020 budget was adopted, even thought that in 2020 we could be hit by an epidemic of covida, not just us, but the whole world as well, and that in fact we would need completely different approaches, different actions and, finally, completely different policies. The surroundings of this year are so extraordinary from the very beginning, exceptional and simply impossible to predict. That is why the balance that is ahead of us today is simply not a rebalancing of this government's policy; it is not the balance of some of the programmes that this government would like to implement, that is what we can expect in amending the budget for next year. In fact, this rebalancing was only about harmonising the projected revenues and expenditure that were called because of the situation itself, and this was a mitigation of the epidemic due to the coronavirus. So it's hard to talk about some developmental orientation. As the Minister himself said today, the budget is significantly more social. It is true, however, that what is truly important has led to all these measures, but it has always been to preserve as many jobs as possible. Earlier in the debate, it was pointed out that unemployment rose slightly in relation to the same period last year. It is true, it has risen, but it could be even higher if we are not here in the National Assembly to adopt all these four PKP packages, anti-Korona packages of laws with which we have substantially mitigated the situation. If we look at the numbers and compare where the most changes have taken place, we see that revenue – we can compare the period already behind us, that is, from January to the end of August – fell significantly last year. We have the biggest drop in income, 130 million, the corporate income tax of 222 million, the value added tax of 287 million, the excise duty of 136 million and so on. On the other hand, some of the expenditure, the current transfers, was substantially raised. Of last year’s 3.6 billion for the first eight months, we had about 5.2 billion in this year. The biggest difference is in subsidies to the economy, here for 850 million more than last year, and in transfers to individuals and households, we are talking about more than 300 million. Speaking of aid to the economy, this does not mean that it was aid to actually help the development of the economy, but it is job conservation. In some ways we can also consider subsidies to individuals and households, at least in this way we can see, because many people have kept a job that they would not otherwise have. As has already been said, here in the National Assembly we have accepted four anti-Korona packages, the fifth is in preparation and will probably be on our tables soon. But in this rebalancing, it seems crucial to me, and many times it has been exposed — yes, we have a large deficit, it is predicted. We don't want it, but it was necessary for us to swim somehow. However, we do have a real fall of gross domestic product, but we are significantly better than the average of countries in the European Union. I believe that this would not be the case if we did not take proper and timely action. Maybe a few numbers to know where those millions went, or we could say billions. To temporarily wait until the end of August 147 million for the release of contributions, the same to wait for 124 million to work. For those employees who actually worked, however, companies were exempt from contributions, companies and those themselves for pension and disability insurance, 435 million. The assistance to espams as a monthly base income of €83 million, was given a single solidarity allowance for vulnerable groups, such as pensioners who received €67 million, and students were already mentioned today, a hazard allowance and a special burden of €191 million. Tourist vouchers. Until now, until 19. 9. We have already committed EUR 100 million, 733 000 beneficiaries benefiting from tourist vouchers. I think that this is one of the measures that you have praised not least more or less of all in the opposition, and in fact we have made a substantial contribution to the smaller fall of gross domestic product. And last but not least, I believe that many have also discovered a new beautiful corner in our beautiful homeland. In addition to all these intervention measures and reimbursements of salaries also due to quarantine, the coverage of revenue losses for public services, institutions, kindergartens, primary schools and so on, the rebalancing also takes into account the fact that it is actually necessary to provide additional money to the pension fund, for salaries, transfers, to cover the under-planned budget of EUR 200 million, and not least what has already been said, to raise the average of municipalities from EUR 589 to EUR 624, which I personally support and I am pleased that this increase has taken place. Last but not least, our country's development, particularly rural development, is taking place in local communities. However, I must say that I was in some way – given that we have a rebalancing 2020 and that we are surprised at the end of September – on Saturday at the Committee on Finance, where we received as many as 62 amendments from the opposition. Some of the amendments, I'll say, may be in place, but most of them are just some kind of piracy of you individuals or your customers. And if we know that by the end of the year we have a good three months left, I know that you don't believe that certain of these amendments can be analyzed, especially when they go, I don't know, to build some kind of facility. That is why, of course, I think that this is in some way unrealistic, but I believe that it is more of a pyarpothesis and that, finally, you are aware of it. Of course, I support the balance of the budget and will support it in the vote tomorrow. However, in the revised budget for the following year, I look forward to those changes that actually constitute a modified policy, which is also expressed and actually taking place in this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Elena Zavadlav Ušaj, and prepare Mr Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u44	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Very well greeted representatives of the ministries and also all colleagues and colleagues! We have a balance ahead of us. I repeat, rebalancing. Because a lot of people in this room don't understand or want to understand that we're just talking about aligning income and expenditure with the actual situation. So, modifying and adapting the budget already adopted for 2020 to the situation created mainly by the covid-19 virus epidemic. This rebalancing has taken place where it has been shown that the funds will by no means be spent and has been diverted where they are urgently needed, i.e. to provide assistance to citizens and citizens and the economy. In particular, redistribution ensures the stability of public cash registers, namely in the area of health, social and pension remittances. By raising the average, the congregations too were helped. It is true that there is a greater debt, but for a reason – because the macroeconomic situation is still uncertain because the covid-19 virus is still devastating both worldwide and in Slovenia. The task is therefore primarily to create health reserves so that we can help residents and residents of the Republic of Slovenia in the event of the spread of the virus and also to ensure transfers in the field of employment. It is also essential that the liquidity of the economy remains stable. Despite repeated explanations, the opposition still wants to show that culture, education, science is being taken into balance. But this is about a lot of deceiving. Let's see why. Public institutions in the field of culture fully maintain programming resources for the financial stability of institutions. They also received salaries, self-employed in the field of culture received funds from other ministries, received basic income, had paid contributions, and also other assistance for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, such as tourist vouchers. However, we need to know that, like the other sectors of the economy that had to adapt overnight, culture must also adapt. And some have and have taken this situation as a challenge and new opportunities. So there's no generalization here. Of course, some projects due to the epidemic could not be implemented and, in such a case, these funds have been redistributed to other items. This has happened both in the field of culture and in the field of science and in the field of education, resources cannot be maintained on items that have not been realised. With regard to investments, however, it is clear that tenders have stopped due to uncertainty. But this does not mean that investments will not be made, but that budgetary resources will be more rationally spent in combination with cohesion funds, which the government has more than successfully negotiated, as the multi-annual financial framework will be negotiated with a few more than €10 billion very welcome in the recovery from the crisis caused by the epidemic. With the help of these funds and the development budget for the next period, i.e. from 2021 onwards, development projects that will pursue the main objectives will be launched. These goals are as follows. Providing both existing jobs and new ones, taking care of older people, especially for long-term care that the previous government has not done, even though this is a pressing problem, and this government has already provided resources and a vision to address this problem within a few months. Next objective: Debirocratisation will be carried out for economic growth and the epidemic will also be tackled. Finally, I can conclude by thanking the government of Janez Janša on behalf of citizens and citizens for successfully leading us at the time of the epidemic, as Slovenia has maintained its credit rating at the same level despite the heavy fall in revenue, so it is still in the first half of the least indebted countries and the fall in GDP is smaller than in the neighbouring European countries. However, due to measures taken in all anti-koronapackets, it has managed to preserve the social security of people, prevent the closure of businesses and accelerate private consumption. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we see that the government already points to the commitments it has made to its citizens and citizens with this balance. That's why I support such a rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the following word, Mr Robert Pavšič is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I must say, it was very nice to say, my predecessor said very nicely. I won't thank anyone, but it has to be real in some way, and I'll tell you why. It is crystal clear to me that this year's rebalancing is being adopted because of special circumstances, it is probably not necessary to be the smartest person in the world, given that we were, the world, in the greatest crisis since World War II, we had a health crisis called covid. In a way, the Council has stopped and it is clear that budgets around the world have fallen, that gross domestic product has fallen enormously across all countries. Unfortunately, no government has had an impact on how much and how much GDP is going to go down. Of course, it depends on how countries were prepared for this crisis or in what condition they were in. I have to say that our country — and it would be nice to have them admit it on the other hand — in a very good condition. Last time we had a surplus last year, 300 million, I think, was a surplus. That's also nice to say, and maybe even a compliment. I was a member of the previous government, and I know how we Members fought when we adopted budgets, for what a million dollars, for what half a million people we didn't have, because we had to have a surplus because of the Fiscal Council and because of the Fiscal Rule Act of a particular matter where we had to have a surplus. And at the time, with all this money, there was no way to get a million dollars for, as you say, some piracy of individual Members. And it would be good, just as I would like to commend one of your things, it would be nice if you could commend the previous minister and the previous government, that it was probably a little easier for Mr. Shirtz. I agree with what Mr Verbich said. He said we had a rebalance and we're talking about including the last three months. I guess what are we talking about? Of course, we accept the balance because we have fallen into this crisis and also because of the measures we have now taken. However, these measures can be discussed for two days, whether these measures have been taken, whether these measures have been well targeted, or whether these measures, as we have taken in this National Assembly, have had that main objective. Because if we look at numbers, what we wanted to do is to start consumption – unfortunately, we didn't start consumption. Because the economic logic of the budget or, I will say, the state logic of the budget and the household logic, my dears, are different. All the extra money we gave to people, in a way, that's what the data also shows, put in deposits. We have several more deposits in the last three months. Thank God people can save money with this, but what Mr. Shircelj probably wanted, and the government, it didn't work out the best. And that's why we have such a deficit. Of course, the Fiscal Council has given a commitment to Mr Shirtzl or the Government – right, all countries have done so – and now we owe ourselves. It is very important what measures we will take, and it is therefore important what we will do in the last three months. I would not wave my hand, as most of you opposition Members now say, "It is the last three months, nothing is possible". A great deal of damage could be done. I'll tell you why. We are uncontrolled, my dears, adopting some laws that we have never been able to adopt in previous mandates. Even what rights we are correcting now, I agree, but in golden times we have not corrected these rights. But since we take credit, it costs as much as it costs, everything is possible. That is why I am not angry at the politics of Shirtz, which does so; I am angry at the professional services of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and some other ministry, because anything is possible now, there is no longer any problem. Maybe it's because the government has to stay together. That's what I think. As far as the measures we have taken are concerned, we have taken what we are. We are responsible for some because we have also supported them. We have seen that some of the goals have not been achieved, for example, those that we thought would trigger consumption. The problem is that now one team, a financial, economic team, is doing some work, and every day the health team is taking some measures that will not benefit from consumption, and we may have to take some more rebalancing at the end of the year, or at the end of the year we'll see where we've blown it somehow. And that's the problem. On the one hand, we want to save tourism, catering, and on the other hand, we close it at half past eleven. On the other hand, we save – welcome, welcome, but these sheepdogs, as Mr Batagel said last time on TV, are only golden taps. We save golden tents and beautiful rooms in hotels. True, we have all come to know the beautiful corners of Slovenia, thank God, but another part of tourism, which is called bus carriers that drive tourists, which I call a guest who sells food, drinks and so on, then we have third, natural and other cultural heritage that we have closed – but this is not part of tourism? We're not saving this! No, now more, we scare them, we scare them, we take some measures where it will not help our GDP or the budget to fill. One of them will tell me, yes, health is on the first track – I absolutely agree, but is everything well thought out? I don't know that. 'Cause by 10:00, there's no coed, and ten thirty is a coworker. Then they will say, yes, people relax after 11 p.m. and otherwise hug – I think people, as you said, in this covid variant were very very disciplined. But we have individuals who don't respect certain rules, but that's the law. So I'm a little skeptical here. It is very important how we will take action and what legislation we will adopt in the coming months. In the last week, in the last 14 weeks, we have taken or will take measures at this meeting, which, if not budget registers, will cost a cash register or a health treasury. After all, they are cashiers who have to be relatively full in some way. Second thing. That's what I'd really like to ask the Minister of Finance. It is, however, the basis of all these budgets, and so on, that legislation is respected. We have legislation to respect. The Public Finance Act seems to me to be a fundamental one, but without this law, there's nothing you can do. The formation and use of funds for budgetary reserves – you know exactly what Articles 48 and 42 say. You'll have to tell me how we can have more than a billion reserves today if we know that the articles of the law say that you can only reserve 2% in terms of GDP. In the previous budget, this was a circus of 150 million. All these stories — and I know that it is difficult — require transparency. The people need to know, the Members need to know, the public needs to know where every euro goes. That seems crucial to me. I know you can't show everything today, but because things are still changing, we'll finally see it in the final account. But I think if we want to know what this is all about, transparency is the main thing. Now, I'm going to say a few words of praise, because I don't find it hard to commend. Congratulations on your local self-government. You did what we never know because we always watch money. Of course, the results were too much, but you gave the congregations. The same is true because I think that congregations can invest in a relatively good way, some of which people have. And for that, I congratulate you here. And that's right. When the crisis was a major crisis, local self-governments in 2008-2012 were the only ones that were the engine of some development. Or we agree with all the sidewalks and all the candelabras and so on, it's another thing, but then the municipalities were the engine of development, and we have to admit that. And if the municipalities, because they will have more own resources, also use European funds wisely, Slovenia is on the right track. And here I have to say - great. But everything else isn't so great. Now you can tell me that we have some amendments, too, that they are pyarvariates — they are not! I will not now, as they waited on those sides, whether Han would support the amendment that he had given because I was driving on some road and so on – it is without connection. So that we can see whether we support this amendment now or not and so on. I'm not doing this. We have made such amendments that we think we could do more with a change in the balance. Of course, because we are in opposition, we will probably not be heard. But I'm not going to those games. That after that, because I did not support any of the amendments that your opposition had put in place at the time, they said, “Yes, but Han did not support this road.” Today I ask the same Members, "You know, we didn't put it in, I've agreed at the Ministry that the road will be next year." That's what I'm trying to say, this duplicity. I've been in Parliament for too long, and as mayor, I've been accepting budgets, and I know about how it works. I commended you for something. For something, I don't think it's a good grab. You probably didn't know how it would get better. However, there is also a need to respect legislation, which is why I am interested in the budgetary reserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I would answer something, and then I would ask the secretary of state to complete me or answer some questions, including on partial matters and on the rest. I owe you two questions. The first is on the budget reservation. Here is also – perhaps you have noticed – the amendment of the coalition proposed for ZIPRO, which provides for a derogation from the 2% budget reservation provided for in the Public Finance Act. And if this is accepted, it will also be in accordance with these rules. However, given the exceptional situation, ZIPRO will determine – and we are also determining – what this reservation will actually be used for, say, is an epidemic, as I said. So much for the legal basis. The second question is about consumption and consumption, whether it has already relaxed, or whether it is more. Once again, July and August data on value added tax show that consumption is at 2019 level, July 2019, August 2019, and I mentioned this. The data show that in August the revenue from the value added tax was more than 1,3 % than in August 2019. We are talking about the nominee, not about the expected increase in 2019, but about what actually happened. Which, in other words, means that consumption is being released, and as I mentioned in the introduction, this can also be because, for example, in July and August, there is a greater consumption of tourist vouchers and so on. Because people, as I understand it, spent holidays in Slovenia in a larger number than in July and August 2019. But private consumption is released, but that replacement, which was not available in the months of March, April, May, and partly in June, is replaced by state consumption. Thus, there has been an increase in state consumption in this respect. This is how we manage these macro-economic aggregates and I am counting on August, October and November to follow August levels in months. From this point of view, once again, we have to – we think this is also justified – make a reserve exclusively for health purposes, given that the risks are high, risks exist. On the one hand, of course, we want to relax our lives, which means greater tides, which means greater consumption, and on the other hand, we need to be careful not to spread the virus or to limit it. So that's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Han has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u50	About what spending will be like in September and in October, we will probably talk about December when you get the data, and they have definitely done theirs, thank God. But the measures are exacerbated and I do not believe that such consumption will be for this simple reason. But I do, honestly. The second is, Minister, because I know that you have a majority and you can change any article in any law, under any amendment, you can change the existing article. But if we go so far as to adopt the Public Finance Act in this way, with some coalition amendment, and that we can reserve whatever we want, it won't be right. And second. We have also done this year to have – and I supported – coordination of extraordinary pensions, which the basic law said would coordinate extraordinary pensions if the economic growth is 2%, and now we have 9% of the minus, and we will coordinate 2%. I know it's all right with the vote, but in the end we're going to have to make sure for generations that we don't commit ourselves, I'm going to say, we're going to have to stick around the door for the next 10 years and we're not going to be able to do anything. That's because maybe the coalition will hold out by the end of the year or maybe a year and a half together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u52	Just a comment on what Ambassador Han said. I agree here, but we have extraordinary circumstances today, we can admit that. I think it is justified to weigh between whether there is something, I will say, if you want, legally unhygienic, to do or whatever, to change some legislation and, on the other hand, to look at the content, whether by providing money to mitigate the consequences of the covide, or by providing money for health, or by providing money for life – I will certainly decide otherwise. It is said that even if something is legally unhygienic — not improper — that we understand — I will certainly be on the side of life and health. So here I agree with you that it is. We will see, in mid-October, what consumption will be like in September, and we will see how consumption develops in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Robert Pavšič has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u54	Thank you very much. It should be made clear that the Public Finance Act should first be amended, but not adopted by the illegal balance sheet, and then corrected by the adoption of ZIPRS. This is your way, but okay, because the result is the same, because you and your voter are going to fuck us all whether we have any legal standards and ethics or not. This is what we are talking about today, the 2020 rebalancing, not for three months, for 2020, the country's and ZIPRS's decrees, all together. Because we can't look at just one document, but all to get the whole picture. And in this green map of mine, it's clear that you don't understand anything – neither where we are nor where we want to be. But you can see where we're going at all costs. You took the future. Since this is not just for three months, this is the future of Slovenia, citizens, our descendants. You took the future to try to be liked in the present. Unfortunately, the virus was just an excuse. If there wasn't a virus, we'd find another tool or some other lever. And given the longevity of these documents, I can personally claim that this government has managed to destroy public finances within just a few months. This government is the last one to speak of credibility and credibility. In the last six months, two reports on redeployments have been sent to Parliament, although they should be sent every month. Two reports. And then the minister boasts, shows the tables, the graphs, how all of this is extremely transparently used. This government is the last one to talk about credibility and credibility, about the reality of the data, about the reality of the situation. How can it be credible if a minister resigns irrevocably and does not resign? You can take this document back tomorrow. You'll find some way to seal it in the envelope and you won't open it. Credibility? Procurement report – we haven't forgotten it yet, we've been looking at it in May. Did you apologize for the proven errors in him? You're not. I can apologize. Last time I was on TV, I said that this government would create 150,000 euros per hour. Now I've recalculated again because I said a little bit about it that time, but it's not 150 000 euros, so I apologize, but 300,000 euros an hour this government loses. So let's get this into something a little more touchy, these are two two-bedroom apartments per hour. 300 thousand euros an hour, two two-bedroom apartments an hour this government spends. And the virus, of course, is a great excuse for how it is being saved — we have also heard these mantras — of human life and health. Life was saved by people themselves, not by your help and those 17 drug addicts that are still useful in this system. But health saved one other system that breathes on gills, but you can't see it either. Moreover, to help this system you have introduced your mechanisms only so that your friends can put some euro or some million euros more in your pocket, probably not for free. So don't tell me, please, about credibility and credibility until six reports or in 14 days seven reports of reassignments! It's not working. We have heard many things, but every day this document saves lives — come on, please. “We keep jobs” – no, you've frozen them! Just frozen. Is that right? Yes, of course it is right that you froze them, but do not say that you saved this country from forgiveness – you did not. Once these job freeze measures have been extended, we will soon experience a major employment crisis and, as a result, a social crisis. And you're aware of that. The minister has now gone out, but in this document inside – is what? Unemployment funds have increased this government, which is nominally right-wing, from 54 million to 200 million. And funds for cash social assistance from 61 million to 333 million. Then, of course, they can talk about a social rebalance and a social budget – why? Because he knows it'll be a fall break. But he can't show what will happen after this fall, how we will drive this country forward and restore people's trust. “Expension is not.” Of course there's no spending! The consumer confidence index shows the stability of policies in one country and unfortunately, until the policy in this country is stable, people will not waste either. They'd rather save money and prepare for the bad times that everyone knows are coming. This balance is also, according to you, just paper. And all the rest of your actions point to the real agenda. I've already mentioned purchases of protective equipment. 17 fans the Prime Minister said yesterday we were making fun of. No, we don't make fun of each other. I'm truly afraid that these fans should really be used. And then we make fun of each other when we point out that there's a lot of odd things going on, if I put it very nicely? Exchanges at Sursa, Furs, at the NPU – this is only a result of this document to make it easier to hide the actual situation where we want to bring this country. Because finance is the basis. I don't know. Should I draw another one for you? [[…]] And then the Members of the Coalition teach us that we do not understand what the balance is, what the budget is. I mean, please, come on. I've heard a lot of things, but not that humiliating tone for a long time. Not only is it humiliating, but this is where I expressed myself more kindly. Funds are being raised for government budget consumers. For foreign policy only, 2.2 million. I mean, do we really need 2.2 million more for foreign policy in these three months now, as you say? Probably for some agency to write another dispatch and we'll be damned ashamed of the normal ones — to use this very misused word recently — to the neighbors we still have in this Europe, thank God. Of course, it is lower for non-governmental budgetary users, because we do not need control. You don't need it. Not that you don't need it, you don't want it. All of this suggests that the measures are liked only outwardly. You are also reminded of this by the Fiscal Council, which, to be perfectly honest, eats from your hands. We only signed a coalition contract and it was already: uh, hello, it's a horror, you'll destroy public finances. A coalition treaty that is a list of wishes or where this country would like to be brought. For the approved budget, you have initiated a constitutional review. You wanted it, you triggered it, of course, the budget was not unconstitutional, because it had almost half a billion surplus planned. Your actions, however, are well-liked. The Fiscal Council has told you that it expects you to submit budget documentation to the National Assembly in the next nine days – and I heard that yesterday, within nine days we will receive a draft budget for the next two years. The Fiscal Council expects the Government to make a credible assessment of its public financial impact. So, the fiscal world told you he doesn't believe you anymore, and then should I believe you?Oh, my God! No way! 50 per cent PKP1 efficiency. Fifty percent, so over the finger. And 76 million realisations for a 2.2 billion-dollar guarantee scheme. Then the minister speaks because the banks, you know, the business banks take it if they don't want it. I already understand how the guarantee scheme works, but then don't brag, we gave 2.2 billion for the economy – you didn't give anything! Banks took loans and those banks that don't need these guarantee schemes give credit to a firm that's already doing well. However, in order for the company to take loans to cover current business losses, no smart entrepreneur will do so. Loans are made for investment, not like you, for making excuses to fight the virus! You'd understand, say, a billion. There's a billion million, by the way. Let's not forget the word "billion." A thousand million. That is why I am already afraid of what will actually happen with this budget and whether you believe in all these lists of infrastructure projects. 7 billion, 9 billion — these billions are hurling around like some candy. And here you said yourself, you took 70 million euros from the government's cohesion service this year, you cut 90% of the funds. Wasn't there any work to draw on cohesion funds for six months? 12 million – I don't know. And you are now boasting that you will make 10 billion out of nothing or 10.5 billion crazy, phenomenally well-negotiated cohesion budget. Come on, please, at least take us seriously. And what else is foretold next year? Social reform, health care, is already taking place in employment policy this year. There's more to it. More is said to the Ministry of Finance, 2.2 billion, and the Ministry of Economy, which has indeed proved to be in control of this crisis – there has been no affair, nor has there been a slightest suspicion about the Ministry of Economy in this country. But they got 137 million for crisis management. One item, 137 million to finance the epidemic is written in. So, the ministry will finance the epidemic – what will it spread more? 137 million. But for state reserves, it's 6.7 million. Who's painting who now? Will another circuit be made somewhere to hide some of this current? That's why I'm also wondering if this balance is even necessary. I'm asking the minister who isn't, whether we've already spent that money, or whether we need it at all. We do not need it under anti-Korona legislation, because you can do whatever you want by the end of this year with this budget. In fact, it's all about the popes and ultimately justify, yes, that's what we've got, but we've spent so much. Ma, you've got, say, one unit, and you've spent 15 of them. It's not useful. And if such questions about credibility and credibility are already emerging in the rebalancing process, not just by the opposition MPs, the Fiscal Council has told the Government in the face of lines – not even between lines, what it says, look, go to the fiscal world website. The Fiscal Council expects, requires reliable data and credible assessments of public financial measures prior to the consideration of budgetary documents. Will you be able to do this in 10 days? That's a rhetorical question. I don't even have to answer it. And yes, I'll say it again: every hour two two rooms. Every hour, two two-bedroom apartments, 300,000 euros an hour. And you expect us, I don't know, to applaud how well you have dealt with this crisis, how you have saved your lives, and I don't know what else. If I paraphrase – because you'll remember the shots – this rebalancing is fine, only a rubber or a map should be white, and everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Chairman. Indeed, this budget balance is something special and it is difficult to compare with one regular budget, a normal year, and we agree on this, and that is why we are so wrapped around everything. When I listened to the opening report of the President of the Government and also of the Minister of Finance today, I got such a serious feeling that the Government was also beginning to worry about this high deficit. I may be wrong, but somehow I have understood from this both for these 4.2 billion and 4.6 billion euro deficits, given the surplus of the budget prepared by the previous government. Of course, this is a new debt, 7.3 billion, so it increases to over 80% of GDP and 20,000 per capita, as we have already heard today. On the other hand, we are increasing expenditure by 3 billion, which is 30% more than the original budget. Of course, 2.6 billion of these concerns covid-19, these measures, which is what we have to understand. But see, on the other hand, the VAT revenue drop of 722 million, the corporate income tax of 370 million, the revenue of 233 million, the excise duty of 177 million, and so on could be mentioned to reach this total amount. Revenue: total loss of 1.6 billion or 14.7% more than the original budget. Why such a deficit, that's the point. Of course, this deficit depends on the measures taken by the Government to address the situation which is linked to the actions of all the countries of our common family of the European Union, provided that we limit ourselves to that. Above all, the content of the measures in Slovenia relating to consumption. However, I would point out the disproportionateity of measures to protect people's health, and I will not include this in detail. That's all I'm going to remind you of is that we've overlooked certain groups. Let me mention again just the culture to which we treat ourselves very stepmotherly, and to some other groups that we know how many times we have warned about them. So there's more action. And if measures are too focused on economic and life congestion and irrational spending for this purpose, and for other purposes such as weapons, useless and useless and too expensive equipment, strengthening individual resources for the power of governance policy, then the budget hole is just like it is. In doing so, let us not overlook saving citizens and citizens from the covid-19 virus, which prevents citizens and citizens from accessing a doctor, prolonging waiting types. That is the serious question that we must consider. It is said that this disproportionateity of measures, on the one hand only for covid-19 and on the other hand we are significantly improving the basic rights to health, which the public and health alone are already strongly alerting. And when I hear the Minister of Finance today that the deficit is only temporary and that the liquidity of the country is very good, I seriously wonder who this information is intended for and why. When I hear how good this government is, because the European Union's mechanisms have earned record 12.5 billion for the next seven years, it seriously worries me whether the Slovenians understand these 12.5 billion correctly. We need to be aware that all countries have been given more because of the situation as it is. And that 12.5 billion is not God-given. Of course, it is divided into grants, which are never irreparable, each had to come from somewhere. On the other hand, we know that we must also put this matter in the European Union's treasury, and then it will virtually destroy itself here, and the rest depends on how well we know how to use it. Everything else is the loans we're going to have to repay in our lives, and so are our children. The fact is that the government itself has acknowledged that we are already at 80% in debt to GDP, and the question is where we will be in the future. Importantly: what is the growth of Slovenia and our development towards the European Union, GDP per capita, added value to the employee. These are the key indicators that we follow and that really point to our success. Representatives of Umar, the Fiscal Council, who also operate mainly with these figures, were also present on the Committee on Finance. This is the result of all of this, and we will have to wait until we know how successful this government is or how we all act together in this situation. The fact is that Slovenia has been very badly cut off in every crisis. It's important how we cut ourselves this time. And we'll only be able to monitor this for a long time. What unemployment will be like when the subsidies for workers cease to apply – this will be the first clear indicator of the health of Slovenian companies on which development is being built. Let us not forget that we are all living from the vitality of the economy, and these are the right guidelines that we must follow. I want to know what the GDP growth will be, what the added value will be in the future, what will be the average wage. Let us look back – this is also highlighted by Umar – let us not forget that in 2000 Slovenia accounted for 80% of GDP on the average of the European Union. In 2008 at 90%, but we cannot believe this number, because the Slovenian economy was then the most overheated, most indebted, and that is why it fell to 82%. It was only in 2019 that we came back to 88% of this average of the European Union, which is still less than it showed in 1990. That is said, even that period before the crisis we were unable to catch. That is why I am talking about these numbers – that when we compare where we are compared to the average of the European Union at the end of 2020, we will only see this sometime in August or June and then in July and then in the following years, we will be able to say what these measures we are now taking. Not only is this government, but we, too, are responsible in this national assembly, so we try and draw attention to the things we want to improve, or we ask why it is, or why it is, that uncertainty that is evident in this budget. The basic goal set by the previous government to achieve the 60 000 added value target for the employee by 2025 is today to reach 47 000, and to reach the average of the European Union by 2030, only to reach the average, we are interested in what measures we will achieve. That's the goal of the government, it was obvious that you set it for yourself. In fact, it is also the continuation of the objectives of the past governments. Maybe it's clear who and how much he could get and who didn't get from the PKP, that's four or now it's the fifth one that's preparing, how much someone got in the short term, what the President of the Government said today in the introduction. I agree that you have made certain matters very clear, but you have not clearly shown to whom the high liquidity of the debt is intended, where these high reserve items are also addressed. That's not clear. That is to say, the long-term measures you have, which we ask so much, have not been clearly defined. And that's it. In the short term, this is also, of course, from the mechanisms of the European Union, all countries behave in a similar way here, but everything else is a great mystery. The objectives of the former government, of course in some other times, were to grow in all areas, to provide surpluses, to reduce indebtedness, which was also inevitably achieved. This government, however, presents us with a very vague picture, which does not point to the achievement of the objective, your goal, the objective of thoroughly reorganising the budget lines and cleaning them, if I are to harshly express that you are changing the country to the ground. We have also learned this from the public media in some way, and I fear that your goal is indeed in this. Such a budget, with these ambiguities, I cannot support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u58	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues! We have a 2020 budget balance ahead of us. There was a lot to be said in the views of the parliamentary groups. The fact is that the 2020 budget rebalancing means harmonising revenue and expenditure with the actual situation. More than once, what are the main reasons for the budget's rebalancing? The main reason for the budget rebalancing is covid-19. As a result of covid-19, the revenue of the State budget was substantially reduced from the planned, the highest drop was due to excise duties, value added tax, income tax and corporate income tax. Significantly from the planned, however, increased expenditure. The budget expenditure increased mainly due to the adoption of measures. Most of the measures proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and adopted by the National Assembly went in three, four directions. The first measures were to combat the spread of covida-19 and all the following measures were aimed at preserving jobs, preserving the Slovenian economy and continuing production. In certain ways, we listened to a number of things. I'm kind of the one who got the most bit about Social Democrats. Really, I'd say a blow under the belt was operated on by the government taking 11 million for warm meals in primary schools. I think this is a very low blow that I did not expect from such a large party that it highlights in its position. Once again, it's about a rebalancing, a matching of income and expenditure. If the lockdown schools were closed in March, April, May, and partly in June, then it is likely for everyone to understand that there were fewer spending on lunches and warm meals in primary schools — since they were not available. And that the Social Democrats in their position then repeat three times that they take meals and reduce funds for warm meals in schools, but I think it is extremely underestimating and extremely misleading. I never thought you'd operate on things like this. I would expect you to say, “Look, these measures, we disagree with them, we would do something different” but that you are cheating with children, I think it is extremely unprofessional. You may have made a mistake, and I think you'll have a chance through a debate that is still about 14 hours away to demarcate this matter. The fact is that all measures have been taken mainly for people. In the previous crisis, we resolved more from the budget than from the financial institution, but measures were taken here that directly touched the Slovenian economy, the Slovenian workers. I'll figure out a few measures. Reimbursement for temporary waiting salaries, reimbursement of remuneration for a period of defined quarantine, partial subsidised reduction of full-time work, deferred payment or interest payment of taxes for a maximum of 24 months, retention of tax executions, suspension of social security contributions for self-employed persons, exemption from social security contributions, exceptional assistance in the form of monthly base income for espays amounting to EUR 700. 328 000 780 low-retirement pensioners received a single solidarity allowance of three different amounts, 300 euros, 230 euros, 130 euros. The hazard allowance and specific burdens for public servants, private operators, solidarity aid of 150 euros were received by the beneficiaries of the parental allowance, child care allowance, family assistants, single social assistance, parental beneficiaries or other persons receiving the child allowance. Assistance to students amounting to 150 euros, exemption from renting for renters of business buildings or business premises owned by the Republic of Slovenia or owned by self-government local communities, the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to assume obligations for banks and savings offices, tourist vouchers, raising of average fees to municipalities. So, in one word, as I have already said in the position of the SDS Group: this budget is very social. I am sure that the Republic of Slovenia has not yet had such a socially oriented budget in its history, despite the fact that there have been the most left-wing governments in history. But in this case, it is right that measures and resources have been earmarked for people, because these measures are certainly a stepping stone for the fact that the Slovenian economy has not stopped that there have been no more job losses than there is now, and that this will be a springboard in the preparation of the 2021 budget change. It is important that the Slovenian economy has not stopped. The proof that Slovenia is successful in these measures is certainly a comparison of the fall of gross domestic product between the countries of the European Union and Europe. Here we see that Slovenia is the one whose fall was among the smallest. The highest decline has certainly been experienced by countries that are more than directly linked to tourism. Greece, Spain, France, Italy are the countries that have had the highest fall in GDP. In Slovenia, something has happened to tourist vouchers, the fall of GDP has decreased, a number of jobs have been retained and this assistance to tourism has been on the spot. We have heard that this budget is untransparent. I'll only mention one thing. The Government shall report monthly to the National Assembly, the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, on the transfers of funds. For the last meeting of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, the Government prepared a thorough report, covering more than 120 pages. The Commission has more members from the opposition than from the coalition to oversee public finances and you will not believe that there has been no discussion at this point. There was no debate. Today, we are hearing from the opposition that the budget is not transparent. Your Honor, you had the opportunity, you have the opportunity, always, with a review of the material, with questions, and all these meetings are attended by government representatives. It is also likely that the opposition Members went to the deposits of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to make money from companies in order to increase. Look, thank God they're getting bigger. In these uncertain times, who will spend abnormally? Who's gonna waste the crazy? No one will. And I am sure that the deposits of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have also increased due to the so-called tourist vouchers. The raising of average municipalities is certainly a measure that is in place to ensure the development and higher standard of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It is certainly necessary to mention the record negotiated amount in Brussels by the Government of Janez Janša for the multiannual financial framework for the period from 2021 to 2027, amounting to more than EUR 10 billion. I am convinced that these projects need to be put in place and the money that will be available should also be adequately pumped up, especially for projects that will have a multiplier effect on the budget and which will in some way raise the standard of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, it is certainly also an appeal to the opposition to try to pool these funds together. I am certainly sure that the opposition can also come up with such a project that is interesting. Last but not least, this has also proved to be true of the measures that are making this budget rebalancing to a greater extent today. Anticorona package 1, 2, 3, 4 was also achieved by cooperation with the opposition. I'm glad that most of these measures, both package 1, package 2, package 3 as package 4, you didn't object. Many of your proposals, or most of your proposals, have also been included in all four packages. I personally will support this budget rebalancing. Once again, the balance of the budget relates to the alignment of revenue and expenditure with the actual situation. In fact, there are three more months here, and I certainly do not understand the opposition's attempt to say in some way that this budget rebalancing is undeveloped. It's probably hard to place another development project in the next three months. It seems important to me that this rebalancing can be a bouncing board, a bouncing board primarily for the economy to move forward in order to ensure that jobs are maintained, that we have a functioning economy and, above all, a stable health system. At the same time, it must be said that they are making the most vulnerable parts of the 2020 budget through the rebalancing of the budget, i.e. the economy, the social and health sectors. Health alone will receive more than €200 million from the balance of this budget. My colleague, Sukič, disagrees. See, 200 million more will be earmarked than the original draft of this budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Andre Zabret has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Although we are talking about the rebalancing as a technical document or the harmonisation of states, we are also talking about the Government's priorities as reflected in the attached documents. The opinion of the Fiscal Council on the budget rebalancing is very clear, and this time it is also very objective. Looking back on the adoption of the budget rebalancing for 2019, the Fiscal Council has been very critical that it is not in line with the law, despite the fact that we have shown surplus. These were the then opposition parties, who today in the coalition, the SDS and the NSI, used and submitted an assessment of the constitutionality of the rebalancing to determine whether the budgetary documents were inconsistent with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has found that the balance sheet is not inconsistent with either the law or the constitution. At that time he was a Member, today Minister of Finance, Mr Shircelj said that “148. Article of the Constitution provides for the consistency of expenditure and revenue and that “it is a matter of introducing fiscal discipline to spend as much as it generates.” End of story. Interesting. What about today? We're talking billions up, billions down, and no one's talking. It's okay. We spend much more than we create, and this is also pointed out by the Fiscal Council, and we can trust it as an expert body. The Fiscal Council also points out that non-covid costs are growing disproportionately and that the problem of clarifying this accelerated implicit growth in budgetary expenditure in recent months. Therefore, before continuing, I would like to say, as I have already said on the Committee on Finance, that the objective does not justify funds. What do I mean? The government is drawing up documents with the fact that the rebalance is prepared in times of uncertain macroeconomic conditions and that there are exceptional circumstances, that they have given the Fiscal Council and the EU a green light, that a temporary derogation from fiscal rules is allowed, which means, at home, that we can use more than we can create. This is true, but this is only true for the expenditure associated with the covida-19 epidemic, which is due to exceptional circumstances, and this does not mean that the Government can do what it wants and that the Government can by right of redeployment, what it voted in the National Assembly by the end of this year, untransparently redistribute funds. Here I would like to replicate to my colleague Pogačnik, who said that the Government reports monthly on these rights of redeployment. I have to fix it. Within six months, the government issued two reports, from 16 March to 6 May, which the Government, I think, dealt with in the Government on 13 May. And the second report was held from 7 May to 30 June, and the Government dealt with it on 23 July. So the government didn't report monthly, but we only got these reports twice now. Thus, it is difficult to speak of any transparency in these reports as well. We also find it very difficult to understand from the documents we have before us how much and what are codisidents, because the Government does not explain this even in the general part of the explanation of the balance. That is why it is very difficult for us to believe in the President of the Government, who has also reiterated today that this is the only government so far that can prove for every euro where he goes or where he goes. Maybe it's for some euro, but it can't do for a million or two or more. Indeed, to this day we do not know how the purchases of protective equipment were made through supply reserves. We talk about millions and billions as if they were growing on a tree. All of this points to non-transparency, which is also pointed out by the Fiscal Council, which says that given the exceptional increase in expenditure and public debt, this requires even greater transparency than under normal conditions. The legitimate concerns we have in the List of Marjan Šarc are also the following. Does the government have a strategy for what will happen in the coming years? What will be the fiscal policy in the coming years? How will it recover the largest debt so far in the history of Slovenia, given that it produced 4.6 billion minus in this year, not 4.2? The budget deficit will indeed be 4.2 billion, but this is because the government will spend the surplus created by the government of Marjan Sarca and Finance Minister Bertonzel. I think we all want to know what Janez Janša's government is doing with public money. In recent days, we have heard a great deal from the Government and the coalition Members about how good the balance is and why it makes sense to support it. Somehow I understand because they support their government, but they bet a lot on their interpretation. We know, you can see half full or half empty glass. Therefore, it is necessary to pour pure wine and clearly, with data and context, talk about the financial situation of our country, the current budget balance and the European funds available to Slovenia. If I were to sum up all the statements made by ministers of the current government and also by Members, who are all in one voice in a hurry to tell how well Prime Minister Janez Janša Slovenia has negotiated European funds, I can see that these funds are virtually no longer available. To sum up what they will finance from these funds, I can only find that they have already spent this money in advance — from purchases for the Ministry of Defence to long-term care and not to mention. At the same time, it must be stressed that we have not received anything yet, and that the country has not yet produced concrete projects on which it will also draw funds, and these are the most important. It depends on how successful we are. And one more thing. We must not forget that EU funds will be almost 100 per cent conditional on respect for the rule of law, and we can only hope that Slovenia will have no difficulty in doing so. We know why. As regards the negotiations on the level of funds, it is nevertheless necessary to say that the negotiations for the multiannual financial framework started in 2017 and did not last for only four days. It is true, however, that so far, in these four days, difficult additional negotiations have been held for the additional recovery and resilience fund and the SURE fund, which are the result of covid and which were not there. He must have helped in this regard as far as the negotiations are concerned, including Prime Minister Janez Janša. As for the 10 and a half billion that the EU will give us, I hope that someone really does not believe that someone will give us something. Of the 10-and-a-half billion grants are only 1.6, and that's from the recovery fund, most of them are loans that we don't know if we're going to benefit from. The Multiannual Financial Framework for 2021-2027, estimated at 4 billion and a half, will in fact be more balanced. It all depends on our projects and how we'll be able to pump it. However, we certainly need to know that we are paying back at least 500 million a year to the EU budget. This amount will certainly rise due to brexitity, which means we pay back almost as much as we get in seven years. Of course, we are still a net receiver for the time being, but it is up to us how much we will be able to pump. Given that from the previous perspective, 2014-2020, when we got 4 billion, we still have 2 billion unscathed, we are not doing so well. In all of this, I find it most dangerous that the government interprets with such ease that people imagine: "We will get European billions and everything will be okay." No, it's not gonna be okay. We're gonna have to pay this money back once, and this money isn't free, it's not irreparable, and no one's gonna give us anything. We'll pay every tourist card once in a while. So that I can get back to the interpretation and comparison of the numbers of individual advocates of the rebalancing. It is necessary to look at both the revenue and the expenditure side of the balance sheet and the exclusive comparison of only one party is not relevant. When accepting a more technical balance, which is practically accepted for only three months and in exceptional circumstances due to co-vid, we can indeed do less on incomes alone, unless you owe yourself across the board, which is not foreign to the government. It is not the first time that the government of Janez Janša will be so indebted to us – remember in 2008. But we can do a lot of things on the spending side, it's about costs, but we can't just do it long and fast. On the budget.gov.si website, which was the Marjana Sharca government project, citizens and citizens can monitor daily the state of public finances. Today the situation is, let's say, minus 2.8 billion. It's a huge number. However, I rightly wonder what else the government will spend money on in order to get to minus 4.6 billion deficits at the end of the year. In fact, revenue has already stabilised slightly, as the Minister of Finance mentioned today, and comes to last year's level. The measures are being phased out slowly. Indeed, we are facing high unemployment in the future, as can be seen from the balance when the Government is taking on active employment policies and is giving for transfers to the unemployed. It's just wrong. The main budgetary revenues are taxes and therefore the tax compliance is very important. The current tax debt is 1.2 billion, of which only 600 million are recoverable, which is particularly worrying. Here, the country should be more concrete and more strongly responsive in order to recover this debt. However, I cannot help but see that without reason and overnight, the director is changing on the tax administration, and this raises doubts, particularly because of what we are listening to from the media. Mr Snezič, who is a true doctor of tax evasion, or so called by others, who is also the advisor to the Prime Minister of the Government, said publicly that he would not pay the debt to Furs if he wrote him 800 000 or 10 million. This is a cause of great concern. We also drew attention to the high level of indebtedness on the Committee below. In ZIPRS itself, we are once again raising the debt ceiling from 1.6 billion to 7.3 billion. It is said that the possibility of additional government debt is 5.7 billion more than the adopted budget for 2020. Nor do the numbers go together as far as the Government says it needs for co-deficits, and what is the projected shortfall in budgetary revenue and the level of the debt itself. I think the government owes itself to the supply. In fact, I'd like to make a comparison: if you're buying a car for $30,000, you probably don't owe you $80,000. And one more thing. In any case, the government wants to justify such a large debt in the current balance and, consequently, in 2008, by saying that the current crisis is different than it was in 2008. We can agree, of course, it is different. However, in 2008, says Minister Šircelj that there was increased demand, the creation of balloons, increased the indebtedness of businesses or economies – yes, that is exactly what happened. But is it not the Government which is in charge of preventing over-indebted business sector by economic measures? That should be the case, but the government was doing just the opposite at the time, and we are still paying for it today. At least one point, we all agree – that it is necessary to make a commitment because the country's consumption of those measures will be higher than the taxes collected, and that state interventionism was necessary during the co-adventure and closure of the entire economy. All the intervention PKPs from 1 to 4 were also needed, but if they were not so hasty and would also listen to the List of Marjan Sarcas and all the other opposition parties we have tabled as amendments, they would not have taken into account, certain measures could have been more effective, as the Fiscal Council also points out. The inefficiencies of the measures also show that, at that time, the role of the population in banks alone has increased by a good 2 billion, which means that people have saved because of fear and have not wasted. And that could even mean that the state owed itself to save people. Therefore, in the List of Marjan Sarcas under PKP3, we proposed an amendment for universal income for a period of three months by the end of the year, which people should spend and could not save. This would mean that the money would go into circulation, the state would get inflows from taxes, the economy would not stop. In any case, the multiplier effect would be greater. Here I also have to stress the inefficiency of the liquidity loan measure for the state-guaranteed companies that are not functioning today, and I think that only 21 million have actually been granted, and the rest was for the moratorium on repayment of loans. With regard to item issues at the Ministry of Finance, which receives a good 2 billion more, the general budget provision for the additional 1.1 billion was in particular. The rebalancing is increasing from 152 million to 1.3 billion, which is also pointed out by the Fiscal Council, which says the Government should explain the purpose of spending on the reserve item. For such high reservations the Government has no legal basis. I also pointed out that the balance sheet could be illegal to the Finance Committee on Saturday. Because we know that under Article 42 of the Public Finance Act, the Government can provide up to 2% of the total annual reserve income, which in this case would be only 180 million, not 1.1 billion. That is why the SDS party tabled an amendment on Saturday, and it also abolished it. Well, at least we've contributed to the legality of the balance. However, as far as these reserves are concerned, I am of the opinion that the Government, after needlessly regaining rights that do not affect it, creates such high reserves and will be free to use these resources again. In fact, the balance sheet is only accepted for three months if we look at the payment period and the payment delays for 30 days, it goes virtually for two months, and here I do not think there is any need for such a large reserve to be established or to appear in the balance sheet. For the second year, we still have a new budget and all of these future revenues can be foreseen in the budget that awaits us in October. The item that will appear in the eyes is also an enormous increase on the line of justice. On the question of what exactly is going on, the minister read to me what belongs to this account, which I can read for myself. However, the number is really dramatically increased, it's an additional 24 million, and I'm still interested in what it's meant to be. In the case of the judiciary, these are denationalisation claims, the correction of past injustices, and I'm just wondering what exactly. Expect a special lawsuit or payment, or why are funds so high on this item, given that it is only three months? When we talk about transparency, you can't tell which item shows the purchases of supplies and how much it's been used, whether it'll still be for the purchase of protective equipment that we know we don't know exactly what you've been buying until now. The next item in the eyes is the demography office. The Office of Demography is allocated 450 000 euros. Here I would first point out the question of whether we need this office or whether it is a new range of public money spending and the creation of re-intransparency and the provision of services to certain people. The tasks of the Office to carry out are tasks already carried out by certain ministries or could be carried out by existing ministries. As far as the funds themselves are concerned, EUR 450 000 in three months, I would like to explain what they are intended for. Because if I just calculated that 15 people were supposed to be employed at the office, and I subtracted some fixed costs, such as rents and electricity and things like that, these people would have very high wages. The next item is pensions with an additional amount of 215 million and a half. And I'm also interested in what exactly is envisaged in these funds. For a while, as a matter of fact. It seems to me that the country is helping people and the economy, and that the interventionism of the country in these times has been necessary. Thus, in these moments and current situations, the whole of Europe has reacted in this way, but I stress that the most important thing is how we spend this money – whether we invest only in short-term measures and the end of the fire, or whether we look forward and take measures to stimulate economic growth. It is also important that we invest in science and research. Here I will refer to today's opening remarks by the Prime Minister, who says that the measures have ensured the existence of a majority of jobs, an adequate health quality to ensure investment and new investments. I would hardly agree with the fact that all measures are as effective as the Government wants to show them. I've talked about this before, and the fiscal world is warning me about it. The balance sheet is not development-oriented, as research funds are falling, it is less for culture, it is less for active employment policy and more for transfers to unemployed people, which shows that the government expects more unemployment. Unfortunately, it is also probably a cruel fact that this will happen when all measures cease to apply when corporate bankruptcy starts in the coming months. That is why I can only hope that the words of the President of the Government are gilded when he says that we can be optimistic next year, that if we do well, we can replace the fall of GDP in the coming year fast enough. It was also said that we must invest all our resources well. Yes, and this is all the story that has to happen in such a way that it will bring economic progress and prosperity to Slovenia and the goal of this government will be as small a budget manna as possible. However, because of all the non-transparent mask deals, the untransparent balance of this government is hard to believe. I am afraid that due to reckless measures we will be paying this account much longer than it would have been if the Government had chosen slightly different, more effective measures and completed them more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u62	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleague Zabrett, I think you have to decide – in one breath you explain that all the money that has been negotiated in the multiannual financial framework of the European Union has already been spent, and then you continue to explain that we have not received anything from Europe anyway. Now you decide whether we're going to get this 10 billion or this 10 billion is already lost. You said: “Just as Janša’s government commissioned us in 2008, no one has ever entrusted us.” Dear colleague Zabret, the first term of the Janša government began in 2005 and at that time the country's gross debt was consolidated 7.68 billion, and at the end of the Janša government's 2008 term the country's consolidated debt was 8.28 billion. This means a little over half a billion debts throughout the mandate. Today, however, Slovenia is in charge of a strong 30 billion. Don't fool around. On the other hand, you explain what the deficit is, and in the summer months, your client has made suggestions to raise this deficit. Let's just remember that your ideas about increasing the height of the vouchers to 400 euros were a universal basic income. Make up your mind, which way you're going. You can't go in both directions at the same time.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The next one is Minister Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I apologize to some because I will repeat myself, since the questions I have already answered are repeated, given that they are read in the same way or in the same way, so will I. First, there's a matter of short answers. The scholarships do not decrease, only the source is different, because the budget fund is that source for scholarships, there are also concessions from the student work. So no one's gonna lose a scholarship, but there's another source because there's a lot of money on this fund. Second. Where are the masks? The masks are number 2304, intervention programmes and obligations. In the adopted budget, the situation was zero; now there are 137 million 445 thousand 750. In this amount there is also the amount relating to masks and trade reserves, which has been discussed here, that is not transparent. In short, some things are very transparent, only budgetary documents need to be looked at. I can't even say here now about borrowing and comparing debt with 2008 and then 2009 and so on. Ambassador Zabretova said: “Is it not the Government that prevents the indebtedness of the enterprise sector?” We can also say, "Is it not the Government that prevents household debt?" The government isn't the one to prevent it. The government cannot interfere with whether individuals or firms will take credit in banks, in the market economy and not in Europe. It's been 50 years since some director might have called a banker and said he needed credit, or some politician called that banker and said, "Give it and give it credit." If not the other, it is the Central Bank that regulates the lending policy of business banks. For this reason, I answer once again and quote: “Is it not the Government that prevents the indebtedness of the business sector?” No, it's been a few decades. This is not in the market economy, but the Central Bank may have measures here. This is why it is kind of unprofessional to blame the Government for that debt in 2008 or 2007. That's kind of unprofessional. We also have other institutions that actually decide on this and also on loans to households. The Government, the President of the Government or the Minister is not the one to determine whether an individual can take credit for television or for a baby carriage or for a car. It's not. So it would actually be good here to actually separate this. The balance isn't made in three months. The balance sheet is made for the whole year and means adjusting expenditure and revenue on an annual basis and is not done for three months. It is the adjustment of these numbers, the adjustment of income and expenditure to the actual state, which means reality and reality for the whole year, because in a year something changes here. And because of that, once again, there are no fixed expenses because there can't be any. For example, in the area of culture, since there was no Frankfurt Book Fair, there can be no expenditure on the Frankfurt Book Fair. Since schools have been closed down, there can be no spending on lunch. That's why the budget is real. If it were written inside that there were snacks and someone went to the Frankfurt Book Fair that wasn't there, then that budget would be unrealistic. Then I'd be confused. I guess I'd say there's more to it than that. And that's an adjustment. We don't talk about debt with ease, and so on, as you say. I think it's easier to talk about scaring, what's gonna happen, just like the buzzer-2 was talked about, but it didn't happen. So, from this point of view, and even if we are looking at the debt policy, it would be unprofessional and very risky to have some extra money today, and this afternoon, Slovenia would be in charge of it. Interest rates would be extremely high in this case. And here it is, the policy of borrowing is one that seeks the most advantageous moments of debt. And it is also true that that money is not fully spent immediately. If you look at the debt policy, then you can also see that some 10 million actually saved on debt costs in the past. Even under your government. In fact, there are the same people working there, on this policy. And these debt costs and also debt has been reduced precisely because you can't get in debt by saying, look, today we need some more money for pensions and tomorrow we're going to be in debt. No, that's not how it works. It's not going the way it might be going in households. It may be easier to do this in the household, but the procedures in the country's indebtedness are slightly different and the risks of being over-indebted or at high rates of interest are also reduced, depending on how the market actually shows. With regard to European funds and so on, “we do not know whether we will get them” and “we get 10.5 billion with ease” and so on and “in fact everything is already spent”. In short, here are some contradictory claims – that we do not have projects, and everything is already used. That was now, I so understood Mrs Zabretova, different sentences have been said here. For these projects we will have to make an effort in this country by actually getting them into reform programmes. With these projects, we will be able to reform health care, provide resources for long-term care. Like projects. And of course they're meant for green and digital. In this context, and Europe has chosen these objectives, these projects will also be feasible. There's gonna be a lot of effort here. Why is this money more favourable now than any other money? This is because the European Commission is expected to be in debt at a lower rate than it is likely that any country or at least most of the Member States of the European Union will. Because it will have a better rating and probably already has it today, which is perfectly understandable in financial markets. From this point of view, this multi-annual financial framework has, in fact, given Slovenia and, of course, also to other countries for the first time, an opportunity to benefit from this money through the European Commission. For information, this money will also have to be returned by the European Commission, which is why the European Union is also looking for new resources for this funding. It's about a tax on financial services, it's about a tax on digital services, and it's about a tax on discharges. So from this point of view, it's perfectly clear. With regard to my words on the previous budget and Article 148 of the Constitution and so on. Yes, at the time, those words were when we talked about the fiscal rule that expenditure must be equal to income. Even today, I argue that the epidemic has come in between and we have the first paragraph of Article 12 of the Fiscal Rule Act, under which this fiscal rule no longer applies in Europe or Slovenia. I agree on the transparency of spending. The transparency of spending is indicated in all three parts of the budget, including the first part, the general part on pages 27 and 28. In the third part of the budget at the end where expenditure is given according to individual measures, according to individual articles of PKP legislation 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and so on. I have also read several times in the National Assembly, how many individual measures have been taken and how many beneficiaries have received this individual measure. And so the ministry and the government will continue. It is said that they will report transparently to the National Assembly. The National Assembly has data on how this money was spent up to 30 years ago. 6. Two reports, like you said, but up to 30. 6. you have all the data and you have all the transfers that were not discussed in the National Assembly on the Commission for Public Finance Supervision. So these obviouss – tell us what information you still want, besides those who are already here. We'll do our best and we'll give it to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The replica has Andrea Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u66	I would only briefly, given that Mr Pogačnik and the Minister misunderstood me about these 10 billion and a half. I spoke hypothetically that we had already spent them, because if you had listened well, I also said “if you had counted everything”. Indeed, you, too, Minister, when asked by a journalist at Odessa how you will finance long-term care, said that we will get European funds and that Slovenia can now be very cheap in debt. This is already a source with which – of course, in the future, these funds are also intended for long-term care, but all, too, Minister Tonin said that military equipment would continue to be financed from European funds, and if you put it all together, you could see that this is already more than 10 billion and a half. When I said we hadn't won yet, I was thinking, above all, that the European budget has not yet been adopted. In addition, it is said that almost 100 percent of the funds will be subject to the rule of law. We know where the European Union currently ranks us, and I have also expressed my doubts about this. Because you asked me which information I would like, but above all I would like to explain about these 24 million on the line of justice. Why is this item so elevated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Robert Pavlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I think there was a misunderstanding here too — you did not understand me when reporting to the Government of the National Assembly. Or you did not understand the law that this Parliament has actually adopted. What does the law say in the PKP1? The Government shall report monthly to the National Assembly on budgetary transfers. Now you've boasted on your own, up to 30. 6. we've been given this information. Who are we today? 22. 9. So you're three months late again. Don't ask me to talk about transparency if she's not here! You are constantly late and are in violation of the law that this Parliament has passed with the help of your coalition. If this is transparency [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u70	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, respectable Slovenia, who is looking at us here! Today, we are actually recording one historic assignment. Historically. And that's 7.6 billion euros. That's information. This is what we come up with in these debates, this is it. You know, if I connect to just one sentence, you said before, Minister, I'll simplify the words that people understand: "Yes, but do you think we just owe ourselves? Do you think we can just be as indebted as someone at home?" Yeah, looks like it, you know. It looks the same! Every few months you come here with one decree, and now $2.2 billion is another 1 billion, and I don't know how much, in what month you'll probably be crying again and you'll come here: "We can't do anything else, we have to help." “Because there is a social balance”, someone said earlier. It's completely everything else, like being socially oriented, this rebalance. And you'll come back with some kind of decision, and given that you have most of it – you do – we'll probably have to witness again one debt, rude, reckless, in my opinion. Do you understand? Who's to blame for doing this? Clearly, there's no connection here that we're looking for what it is. One man now leads this country, and one man normally has to assume his responsibilities — John John Janša. I said earlier, I have pointed this out earlier in my position, and I will always say this, the main achievement of this government will, I think, be a historical responsibility for 7.6 billion euros. I'll show you one thing. You may, probably not - you said before, yes, the numbers are real, but it's not true that it looks the way it is, or it's not what it is, but the numbers are real. Yeah, I know the numbers are right, you know, Minister. Look at this graph. This is a simple graph of economic growth. Look who's in the picture below – Mr. Ivan Janez Janša. Look, these are completely red numbers, we're looking at 2012, then luckily Alice Bratušek came along and she brought deep negative numbers into pretty positive and so it went on for years. And now look here, in 2020 we are back in one catastrophic red phase. I think that's very clear. You will say, "Yes, because these are numbers, but they do not reflect the real picture of what is now happening in the light of covida." You can, but look, this is reality. Numbers are numbers. You can interpret this matter as much as you want, but that's it. You know, man says where we are now. Where are we now? And now we are not elsewhere than in the second graph, which I have already shown in the debate. Very simple. Because the graph is eccentric, look, it's very simple: debt and debt. 12 thousand and 700 per person, almost 20 thousand per person, that'll be the result of this government. You guys excuse all this. That debt is clear. If anything remains in the history of this government here, as I said before, there will be a historical, historical debt of 7.6 billion. And I don't believe that's all. Personally, I don't believe that's all. For this rebalancing probably, but then we're waiting, in 14 days, I think, to start talking about a new budget, which I think will be, in the coming years. But these are the guidelines, and I'm sure there's gonna be another decision coming to the table, and we'll see a billion more. So, people still don't talk about millions anymore, millions are gone! [[…]] When we were in the government, to get $2 million, $3 million, you were jumping into the air: where did the money come from, how will we get the money, how will we get the debt? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Back then. Now we're taking a negative note. But let's leave. You know, it's, I'll mention it, you could almost say one brutal and unworthy debt to this government. My words, my words personally. I'll get to the point. I will talk about our amendments because I think I have the right to say here, even on the Committee on Finance we have discussed these amendments. You know, with our amendments and opposition partners, we wanted to redistribute some 188 million to 13.4 billion. You've been saying that if all our wishes were fulfilled here, we should have no idea how many billion of them. But these are lies. That's what you tell your people. That's what you tell your side, not us. We have numbers in the middle, we know exactly what this is about, our amendments are exactly written. 188 million within 13.4 billion – now I ask you why you think that way. What was most surprising — I will not say another term — is neither one nor one amendment. Not a single one! Are we really that negative? Are we that bad?Oh, my God! I mean, I don't know. Were these our proposals so overwhelming that at 13.5 billion, at 7.6 billion, as much as we did minus, now we're looking at something, why not? [[…]] Nothing from nothing. Nothing! Do you know what that means? Nothing. Not even one extra. Not one. What was the point of these amendments? I think it is right to mention that people who look at us in Slovenia understand what was the point. I'm talking about our amendments, from the SAB, Alenka Bratusek Party. The first amendment, which was, was an additional money in the Older Ageing programme. What's wrong with that? What's wrong with this? You tell me. We're just talking about the long-term care law, we're not working on it yet, nothing, we're just saying – I hope it's in time – but I think we need money to make up for the day-to-day living of the elderly. We weren't talking about billions, you know. That was one smart amendment for older people. Second amendment. We asked and gave an initiative with a supplement to get free masks. Who would get free masks? The ones the government wants them to wear. These are students, students, pensioners, wherever they go. That's all we've come up with. What was wrong with this proposal? We're talking about change. But no, you didn't want it in principle, because your principle is that what the opposition says – we don't give. Even if it's good, we don't. It's a principle. Not for justice, not for honesty, for principle. And what happens today or yesterday? Huh, just the one who asked students and students to wear masks, that's what happens. I hope this woman, this lady, will step down because Phil Hogan has stepped down for a small matter. He gave up on a small matter. She demands that our students and students wear masks and suffer with those masks in schools, but now here — here it is. That's it. Even Prime Minister Janez Janša apologized. He was embarrassed when I showed this. But Zorčič didn't want to understand, he stopped me from saying anything. He stopped me. Of course, because it's the same quota, because we know he can't, it needs a little bit different, because, same quota, we have to look out for our people. But no matter what, I think I've made one fair point. Do you think that's right? Do you think that's right?Oh, my God! I saw the Prime Minister here, he was embarrassed, and he tweeted afterwards. He tweeted. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u71	Dear Member Bandelli [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u72	Yeah, I'll focus on the balance. Excuse me, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u73	Please, yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u74	But I think that's the right thing to do. For Slovenia, you know, this is right for Slovenia. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I think it's okay, well. Now let's move on. Dear Minister Shircelj, with a third matter, we did not want anything but simply to preserve our cultural heritage. You know what a multiplier it is because you were there because you were in business because you worked there. You're also boasting that you've been a big financier everywhere. How can you not understand the matter? You know what? Yes, you already understand, but that's the job – we can't let go of anything, not even good ideas. “The fifth marriage is likely to come, and we will take this into account in the fifth marriage.” Let's hope that's what we want! And we'll commend you, because we'll commend you if it's in there. But all that you promised in the previous marriage will be in the next – not yet some things are, you know. They're not. And boast that we're saving companies, 150 thousand jobs. It's a lie. Liar! It is the good will of men, only the good will of entrepreneurs and craftsmen! Look, earlier she gave you those numbers and numbers, how much liquidity was in the law — nothing. Nothing. And I told you, when we had this debate – six months ago, five months ago, we had a debate on the liquidity law – that it was a totally stateless law. How much did small, medium-sized enterprises, micro-enterprises, independent entrepreneurs benefit?Oh, my God! It was important to me to see what it was, what it wasn't. You sent me, because I sent data to the Ministry of the Economy, and they answered. Oh, her, how they Ma, they really used amazing money and everything they needed. [[…]] We will also deal with that on the next committee, because we will, because we will. Let's see how many numbers there are. But that's what I was going to say, there's no need to preserve cultural heritage and these matters, you have to throw money out, like it doesn't matter. The latter we have proposed that little money should be right for that purpose, now I will speak very simply, in health care, to shorten waiting lines – and that is not important. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter either. That's what you were up against. And I'm not gonna talk about it that much because it doesn't make sense right now. But what's interesting is the money for the last three months. Over the last three months, we've received 450 thousand euros of money for a demographic office. Three months. How many will work there? How many of them are going to do what they're already doing, practically what they're doing? You have no idea if it's gonna be the Ministry, you don't know if it's gonna be the Directorate or what's gonna happen. You don't know it yet, but exactly EUR 450 000 you've raised to be on this item for it. Isn't that right, Minister? That's right, it's 450 grand, isn't it? We know. Not 300, 150, half a million – exactly 450 thousand. Don't you think it's a little weird that this is such a weird number? How many people will work there? Or is it because everyone is scratching so hard to be inside this demographic office, they probably already know that there will be some gold jobs, such good, good jobs? I mean, I don't know. People need to know, because there's no record of how many employees, what's going to happen, what's going to happen, what's going to happen, what's going to happen, what's going to happen, what's going to happen, what's going to happen, what's going to happen. So I think it's a little bit like that. Well, there's more like that. [[…]] I think even at the Ministry of the Economy there are 137 million, and I don't know how much, up to 50 euros, is written exactly how much more money is needed. Where'd you get that number? I mean, you guys are amazing. Up to EUR 50, as much as it takes to be put into the balance sheet. Okay, well, I'm gonna finish this soon, because I think I said what I thought, and I said other things to the board. Most eloquently, though, is this — you know what is most worrying about what is here? How, in any way, do you even think about getting us back in the right tracks, I'll say. You don't have any rescue programs. You don't have it, no department introduced it, not one. You come here with a program, a billion-dollar decree, twice here, once a billion-dollar, once a billion-billion-billion-dollar one, but to tell you what kind of way this is going to work out, how we're going to get back to the real numbers, to those rails that I mentioned earlier, you don't have any sanitation strategy. [[…]] You don't! No one's ever put anyone out! Because when you take credit and say, when the problem is that and different, I tell you as an entrepreneur, of course – why do you take credit? For one purpose, for one pure purpose — to return with the work that you anticipated. But there's no such thing here. There's no such thing here, Minister. We're giving the social balance, okay, we're helping people, we're in debt. Of course, ratings do not show us well, because all countries in Europe have done the same thing and that is why they have all fallen. It will probably be too – I don't know, we are waiting for what Europe will say in this. I can imagine what's going to happen. You're also counting on some kind of, I don't know, general write-off across Europe or something, or raise those parameters that were set at the time or whatever. But no matter what, at this stage where you're in the ruling phase, it's the simplest thing to do right now. That's what it looks like. And the fiscal world is worried. But let's not say it out loud. Do you understand? But the saddest part is what this truth I've told you now – that all coalition partners have to do because they signed one coalition agreement, to nod. Then you have another partner who doesn't even know what he's doing for his partner, who nods everything, confirms everything, anything, you can spit on him, everything he is, they'll always say yes, and they'll always confirm and press plus. So without I don't know, did you have to agree something that you did this favor to exactly everything, everything, anything, even what is not in the coalition contract, confirm?Oh, my God! [[…]] So you're really awesome, you're really good, really. You know how to do that, manipulate people. But that's right. We have to give you the right to do that. That's what I'm going to say, Mr. Secretary-General. I'm going to finish. Let us show you once, or at least let the resources tell us how they intend to get back into these, as I mentioned earlier, rails, these positive rails, or some kind of sanitation strategy, what kind of plan, what kind of program. In a way. Because if you think you're gonna raise taxes or something, it's just against what you've always said. We've also been waiting for you to lower your VAT. You've already proposed it three times in the final phase. You've proposed it three times. Here she was through, every week there was a debate about VAT, because this is how you were winning your electorate. Let us not talk about migration problems and all things — let us stop because it does not work. But that's it. Basically, this is a picture of our government today, and I think that the responsibility for these 7.6 billion, which we mentioned earlier, will not be the responsibility of any other than yours and your governments and your coalition partners. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u76	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I'd split the replica into two sets. Comrade Marko Bandelli, you're talking about the deficit, you're talking about the debt. I am interested in the Deficit, as a result of these debts at a given time, probably due to the covida-19 epidemic and the measures taken, the PKP1, the PKP2, the PKP3, the PKP4. [[…]] I'm curious, colleague Bandelli, in which of these measures you voted against. And you are probably aware of the consequences of these measures. The second set of replicas, however, is respected colleague Bandelli – Slovenia does not exist only since 2013. It would be correct for you to show your tables since 1991. As far as I know, SDS President Janez Janša led the government three times. In these paintings, there was usually only one picture of him. What you are doing with this deception is underestimating — to the National Assembly, to the Minister. Three times, right? [[advertising from the hall]] Comrade Bandelli, you're deceiving [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u77	Mr Bandelli, I ask that you respect the rules of procedure and do not interfere with the speaker when he speaks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u78	Perhaps someone in North Korea can learn something from you. Because as misleading as you go – to display the tables from 2013 until now, to sum up just one set that is convenient for you and not for others – I think it is extremely underestimating to the National Assembly, to the Minister and not least to the elections and to the voters, who I think will also be able to reward the work of the National Assembly and the work of the government and coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The word is from the Minister of Magic. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u80	Thank you. Ambassador Bandelli gave some points — now he has left the hall, so I don't know whether he hears me or not, probably harder. Whatever. I'd like to talk about a guarantee marriage, which is a lot of words because it's a misunderstanding. On the one hand, many MEPs also say that the liquidity in the economy has increased and this shows data and this is the reality, this is the data of banks; and liquidity in households has increased and this is shown by the data of banks, and on the other hand the guarantee law has not recovered. And now there's some illogicality. First time. The guarantee bill was not made because someone had to take credit. That's not what this is about. Another time. Under this law, the procedure itself is slightly different from the normal loan. The procedure is that the borrower goes to the bank, to the business bank, there takes the credit and then this business bank takes this credit map, this loan transfers to the SID Development Bank and there goes a process whether this loan will now receive the state guarantee or not. If a business bank considers that a credit does not need to be guaranteed by the State, that the borrower is so reliable that the business bank does not need this guarantee from the State, then it does not transfer this credit to the SID bank. In other words, the State guarantee - and this law states that the State guarantee - applies only to those companies classified between rating A and B, group A and B. So here is the misunderstanding that on the one hand we have a fairly good liquidity of the economy and the population and on the other hand we are talking about the fact that the guarantees do not come alive. But here's the illogical thing: if we have a business bank policy by giving out credits, and it shows that they give credit and believe in borrowers, of course, it's just a good sign. I'm not saying that every company gets that kind of credit, but I speak here in general. Of course, some new institutions may be disturbed here – this is the next question – which is supposed to be financed, I don't know, by a demographic fund and so on. Look, we have a closing account and in the final budget account it will be clear exactly how much money will be spent on something. I also think that every final account will ultimately result in whether or not it has been spent or spent. And if it wasn't spent, why wasn't all the money spent? So about these numbers, of course, then there. This is about grades now. And once again, when we talk about the path that was also repeatedly on the Committee on Finance on Saturday – yes, the Government is saving jobs and businesses during this period. And during this period, the government is preparing investments and is already launching investments. It prepares the basis for these investments, prepares the basis for infrastructure investments, for investments in health care, if you want, to solve the problems of the elderly. They're preparing these bases. It also simplifies the business environment administratively and bureaucraticly with the aim of improving people's health and well-being. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I see it's an interest. I'm asking you to sign up. The first one gets the word Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! These numbers, which we have been listening to all day and presented by the government, are actually quite eloquent in themselves. There is a large budget deficit, which should not be particularly problematic under these given circumstances if it does not point to some intention to discipline those who somehow warm their lives. Here I would first stop with NGOs and non-governmental budgetary users, where funds are falling for many. I am particularly concerned that the funds are being reduced by the Ombudsman, the Information Officer, the Court of Auditors, the KPK, the State Audit Commission, the Fiscal Council. These are those institutions that watch out for the use of public money that fight corruption, which play an important role in ensuring the long-term stability of public finances, and this seems really unacceptable and, of course, dangerous to me. Even with government budget users, the situation is somewhat similar. The funds are being reduced to the General Secretariat, the Owls, the SVRK and the Cabinet of the President of the Government and the Government Communications Office. The funds are also falling for Umar and the Statistical Office. These are the two institutions that the state urgently needs for the correctness of its economic calculations. Then there are additional anomalies within the Ministry of Health, where funds for the health and health programme are being reduced in crisis situations, at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, where a lot of money is being taken, and the worst is at the Ministry of Culture, where 8 million euros will be lower, in a culture that is already one of the biggest victims of this situation at the time of the outbreak of covid-19. On the other hand, some institutions that are under the patronage of this government are left untouched. For example, the National Reconciliation Study Centre, which was established in 2008. The Ministry of Justice provides salaries for 12 employees and for material costs, with internal audit carried out this year pointing to a number of serious irregularities, including the payment of too much salary to the Director. Nevertheless, the government has reappointed the principal to head the institution. That is why we in our parliamentary group, and at the same time in the opposition, have prepared some amendments to eliminate these exposed anomalies. Among them, I would point out those who ensure that funds for culture and scientific research are returned, those who do not reduce resources for employment and job creation, and those who would be able to make calls for the co-financing of the construction of kindergartens and schools, and of course those who would be able to make some key investments both in railway infrastructure and infrastructure for older persons, i.e. homes for old people and other urgent investments. So much for a short while, of course, later on, I will also present the amendments that I have tabled for this purpose in order to make these things right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word is given by Minister Andrej Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u84	I apologize for repeating myself again because I have already answered this question. The so-called NGOs, the KPK, the Court of Auditors, the Fiscal Council, the Anti-Corruption Commission and so on – all these NGOs receive as much money as they have proposed and as much money as they have requested. In any event, the circumstances of the cobbler led them to assess for themselves that they would need less resources by the end of the year. So here these intentions, honourable Member, are in fact not – that the government would like to do anything here. As much as they asked, they got as much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u85	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Mr. Predrag Bakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u86	Dear Minister, I'm glad you explained this in some way. But I don't know if you've forgotten to explain the part about the National Reconciliation Study Center. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Chairman. Let me first add my five cents to the debate on € 10.5 billion of European funds. Introductoryly, then a little bit more about the budget. On 21 July 2020, an agreement was reached at the EU summit in Brussels on the European budget for the period 2021-2027 and the recovery fund. At that time, Prime Minister Janša praised how we would get 10.5 billion euros, and Minister Tonin went a step further and even claimed that we would get 12 billion euros. That's what he said, 3. 9. This was repeatedly claimed by 2020 when the proposal for a law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army was discussed in 2021-2026. Of course, neither Yanshev nor Tonin’s claims are true. Now I'm going to elaborate on why not and what kind of deception this is. Of course, it sounds good if you tell the people you'll get 10.5 billion euros, or even 12 billion, as Minister Tonin said. This is a simple deceiving because Slovenia will receive a good EUR 3 billion over the next seven years, which is not really enough to cover this year's budget deficit of EUR 4.2 billion. And as if this is not yet enough, it is forecast that 780 million euros will be spent on unnecessary military equipment that will be useful on foreign NATO missions, which is absurd at all. But now I'm going to explain this so you won't say, Minister – and I want to know what you're really going to say then – that I'm cheating here. No, no, no. These are deceptions. Listen to this. The value of the entire European budget is €74 billion for a seven-year period, the value of the total recovery fund is €750 billion and the EU budget resources are distributed to individual Member States according to their share of GDP. Slovenia thus receives 0.34%, which means that Slovenia's budget will be €4.8 billion in the next seven years, but let us not forget that Slovenia will have to contribute around €3.7 billion back to the European Union budget in the same period. From this, it is clear that the net purchase of Slovenia from this title will be only EUR 1.1 billion and nothing more. Now let's look at the recovery fund. In addition to the budget, Slovenia will also have the resources from the so-called recovery fund of €5.7 billion. But most of these funds, which is €3.6 billion, will be available in the form of loans that are included in public debt and which will have to be repaid at some point. The advantage of loans granted to Member States by the European Commission will, however, be lower than those granted by individual Member States on the market, but will benefit from this common debt – to whom? It will only benefit those Member States currently in debt at an average of high interest rates, such as Italy and Greece, but not us, Slovenia, which can already be in debt at an average of low interest rates, at present, at day 4. 9. When we analyzed this, it is probably a little different today, bringing on ten-year government bonds in Slovenia is – 0.058%, which means that Slovenia can be indebted at negative rates. It follows that Slovenia cannot expect any public financial benefits from these loans available from the Recovery Fund, as there will be no more favourable loans than we are currently hiring to finance current consumption. Is that right? But you're going to deny me, Minister, if I'm wrong. If I go any further. Of the €5.7 billion available to Slovenia from the Recovery Fund, only €2.1 billion will be available in irreversible form. That's 2.1 billion plus that net I said before, 1.1 billion euros. And that's true, my dear. So Slovenia will in fact not get EUR 10.5 billion from Europe, as our Prime Minister Janša claims, which he has been working on, but only EUR 3.3 billion mentioned by Tonin. That's what we're gonna get. It should be pointed out that EUR 3.3 billion over a seven-year period, which further means that at the annual level this means some EUR 470 million and only this year's budget deficit will amount to EUR 4.2 billion. And if I say again here, unfortunately, I have to mention the 780 million forecast that will be spent in the next military period, look, it's really absurd. And then we are surprised that we are critical of such projections, predictions, after all, of this rebalancing, which in its own way is not transparent, as colleagues and colleagues have already pointed out before me. Above all, if you actually look at it, it is obvious that it does not provide sufficient resources for health care – and I will also justify it because you say you are giving more, but I will tell you where you are giving more and where you are giving nothing, and you should give – cut resources for culture, cut resources for science, cut resources for science, cut resources for development, cut resources for that added value that science brings with its findings, patents and so on. If I look at the Ministry of Health, EUR 196 million is actually increasing to EUR 336 million, it is true, and at first glance it looks great, and of course you are boasting, your government, that you have provided an additional 140 million with a health-rebalance. Yeah, he keeps it by numbers, but you have to ask yourself, what's behind these numbers? The fact is that this is not really enough to cover the current deficit of the Institute of Health Insurance. This is 250 million euros. Practically all these additional appropriations are intended to finance measures under anti-Korona laws, such as wage supplements, threats and special burdens during the epidemic, such as health insurance contributions, hospital allowances and so on. Unfortunately, however, the Government – with this balance – I hope that the future budget will be different – has not provided any additional funds to invest in improving health infrastructure, which we know needs these investments bloodyly. We know where the public health problems are, and we need to solve them, whether we have an epidemiological situation or not. Unfortunately, you need to be aware of that, and you need to keep that in mind when you're designing something like that. As I said, he forgets about public health investments, he cuts too modest resources for science before, and unfortunately he does, as colleagues have mentioned before, systematically True Systematicity, but now he sees, attacks and destroys culture. [[…]] Within the Ministry of Culture, a good share of the funds is devoted to the media and we know what is currently going on – a threat against the public Radio Television of Slovenia and other media that are not attracted to the ruling SDS party. Among them are also marked on impact, say POP TV and Channel A. Remember, unfortunately, the books and films are also cut. Why, I don't know, Minister Simonita will probably be able to explain. Let us remember – by the way, this is the subject of another debate more than that – that Minister Simoniti is making a dangerous decision on the already approved status of self-employed persons does not sign them. He just doesn't sign them because he thinks it's too much, even though the commission has already approved it for people in the meantime. We've come so far, so don't pretend it's not an attack on culture. Not to mention that this long wait for long-term care arrangements is still dragging and we'll see if it really gets resolved or not. Talk about it, I hope something happens. As far as the key infrastructure projects are concerned, I must say that this balance shows bad for them. I'll tell you why. If I just look at housing policy that we don't really have all this time, all the previous governments -- we just don't have it. Once in the SDS party, you were justifiably critical that this is not the case, and here too we have always been critical, and here we have even agreed that we do not have an adequate housing, tax and not spatial policy to promote the resolution of housing issues. We were together here. In this area, the fact that there is indeed chaos in Slovenia and that is why we have actually found ourselves in all the non-slaving statistics of the European Union, from the fastest rising prices of dwellings to the extremely late independence of young people so that they can go on their own. According to the number of homes that are unfit to stay, we are also at the top of these statistics, by the number of families living in housing poverty and so on. In short, extremely infamous statistics. In the last 10 years, not to mention, we have not devoted a single euro to the construction of new apartments. Indeed, there are even some €6 million in this balance sheet, but please, in this area of crisis, resources could have to be diverted slightly differently. Because according to the Housing Fund, at least 9,000 100 non-profit apartments are missing at this moment, there are more than 4 000 in Ljubljana alone. The fact is that, as I see it, you have committed a little less than €6 million, which is not enough to build 100 decent apartments. There's something more than nothing I'll say, but still practically nothing. If I have a little bit of a laugh, my colleague mentioned that we're going to lose 300,000 euros an hour, that's two average two-bedroom apartments, it's said to be 24 times a day, that's 48 two-bedroom apartments. At least that's how a colleague described it in a graphic way. Then I can only wonder how many days I could be solved once and for all. But let's just leave it at that, that was a little bit like that. I can do very well, and we can also be concerned about other infrastructure issues. I am talking a little bit more about infrastructure because I am a member of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. We know what happened, how NGOs were excluded from various construction processes, i.e. changes in construction legislation. Unfortunately, it seems that your government somehow – you are already devoting yourself to the fact that there is no climate change. And I have to tell you, infrastructure isn't just roads and concrete. Since here in this budget balance it seems that you have increased the means to rebuild roads and build new roads by 40 million, while unfortunately you have reduced the funds for investment maintenance and upgrading railways for what, I think, 112 million euros. In view of the fact that we are somehow separated by a decade from — at least so say scientists — a considerable amount of likely climate damage, and we need to be concerned about being released into the atmosphere, and this is being radically reduced, after all, before the recent Ursula von der Leyen announced where the priorities of the European Union are, how much it is necessary to reduce releases, how to go into the green and so on, it is really completely undeveloped and even damaging to notice such discrimination in this rebalancing. I'm interested in your comment. The fact is that co-vidcrisis has really affected us all together, but that it would only be the case for co-vidcrisy to make moves that are not strategic, which are not at least medium-term, if not even long-term, in such matters as infrastructure inputs and the like, or investments in the public health system, or, after all, the decomposition of a culture, with which we behave every time we as ambassadors represent us in the world, both artists and athletes. [[…]] Unfortunately covid-19 can't be an answer and an excuse for everyone. I am particularly interested in your comment on European funds on what is really the real situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u90	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much for your words. In the previous debate, it was said that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport had been taken. Of course, I should say that this is not the case, because the balance on our item has increased by €65.6 million, which is 3.2 of our total budget. It is true that the integral funds have increased by €87 million by €7.8 million, but, of course, the funds relating to cohesion policy have also decreased. Maybe I'll explain a little. It is important that legal means are provided to enable primary schools, music schools and institutions with special needs to function normally. On the other hand, they were already at the decision of the Government 13. 3. redistributed funds of 14,1 million to the epidemic control reserve. These were funds earmarked for investments in kindergartens, primary schools and sports facilities. These funds will return in the coming years, 2021, 2022, 2023 and so on, and these things will be available to local communities. As far as 11.8 million was concerned, as far as food was concerned, i.e. subsidies for food. This, as the Minister had previously said, has not been implemented and these funds have been earmarked for other social transfers in terms of covid control. However, as far as science is concerned, I would like to say first that the integral resources for science certainly do not decrease in these years, but they do grow every year. It is true, however, that these funds earmarked for specific projects have been reduced by European funds because these projects are not possible in these times, eight projects are being implemented. This, however, does not stop these funds, but only slows down their dynamics in 2021 and 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u91	Thank you very much. It's a replica. I'm a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u92	Your Honor, if I understand you correctly about science, you say they're withdrawing. Okay, you can't see that right now, but I know it's 23 million less. Previously, 295 million euros were provided, only 272 in the balance sheet. By pointing out that, in general, we have a problem of investing in science, research and development, because we only allocate 0.6% of GDP to them, which is, say, strong below the average of the European Union, which allocates 1.4%. So it would be an additional contraction, if this is the case — otherwise you say no — really a disaster. It is better to turn the optics around and think about investing more in science in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? [[Yeah.]] You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. I would certainly like to make some comments on a number of things. First of all, with regard to European funds. Slovenia is a net recipient, which means, in other words, that even if we are not talking about this last 750 billion package now, it is still a net recipient and here we are calculating what Slovenia is actually paying, and what it actually gets from this money. But if we take the whole package together now, so to speak, this 750 billion, which then divides, as you said, then it's actually extra money. And this additional money is divided into grants and reimbursements, as the government has said in fact. My comment on grants is: all the funds are in some way recoverable if you want. After all, Europe foresees new tax sources, I think I have already mentioned them, three are referred to as financial services tax, a digital service tax and a green tax or an exhaust tax. So from this point of view, this money is available. Speaking of interest rates. One part will be irrevocable, which means that it will be directly financed by the resources of the European Union under these new taxes, some of them already, we are talking about a new tax now, one or more. And second, of course, there are still all other policies, cohesion policy and so on, agriculture, in short, this is all there is and this is essentially just some upgrade of that. When you say interest rates. We have also done some analysis on interest rates, and we have come to an assessment, if we are looking at it also on the medium term and so on, for some longer period, that there is a possibility that the European Commission's credits will be slightly cheaper, so to speak, than the credits we would have taken from the financial markets. However, the risk will certainly be lower. Which means that the risk of a change in the European Commission's credit interest rate will be lower than the risk where the individual country's interest rate changes. That's completely understandable. So from this point of view, we've actually examined this aspect. I think it is also in terms of solidarity – much has been said about the solidarity of the European Commission, the European Union and so on. With regard to Europe, this is a new element that the Commission has reached out to the fact that it will actually for the first time provide credit to Member States under any conditions and so on. But this is a new element and, in my personal opinion, a connecting element of Europe. After all, we now have something more in common, if you want, a common loan or whatever, to solve the codcrisis. Here is solidarity in connection mainly with the fact that, if we are talking about some countries, Spain, Italy and so on, which are also very affected by covida, then in my opinion this is also a positive element in the European Union. About health care and about 250 million or 200 million. See, I hear different numbers about this, but it should be borne in mind that the Republic of Slovenia or the state budget will also cover health resources in accordance with the law on the implementation of the budget. There's another 50 million. It is, of course, that we have different legal bases, how to finance the Institute of Health Insurance. It is difficult directly through the budget, which is why we need new legal bases, but there are still funds earmarked, certainly so much so that health care will ensure uninterrupted health care, health care for people and so on. So we've done it before. With regard to these discounts of the Health Insurance Office, I am here with a little caution or I think this balance sheet should still be reviewed, and for what period and so on. So don't worry about it, the state will provide money for health care. Then there is this obvious: for railways less than for roads and so on, infrastructure. See, this budget and every budget, especially if this is a budget correction, a budget rebalancing, I will say that, at this point, it does not reflect that Slovenia would not invest in rail infrastructure now. As I know, the Ministry of Infrastructure is putting a great deal of effort and investment into investing in rail infrastructure. However we take it, we can have different opinions about the second track, but this is also railway infrastructure. It's from this angle. In this budget, however, there are those projects that are actually ready. And you know, project preparation takes a very long time, all the permits, ownership issues and so on. Of course, we do not want to show from this now that we will put in some projects that will not be feasible. There were also many projects in the budget that were then unusable or not implemented during that time period. I'm talking about a lot of budgets, I can say all governments. But I don't see the point of putting some projects that are impossible into this budget right now. However, it does not express the Government's intention not to invest in rail infrastructure. I think in a month, when you have a budget on the table for 2021 and 2022, the picture will be slightly different. This is, however, a correction of the budget and a question of the feasibility of projects. That's how much I'd have to comment on your debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Comrade Bevk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The biggest loser of this balance of the state budget for 2020 is certainly the Ministry of Culture. Unfortunately, the 2020 budget balance shows that culture is not the priority of this government. The cultural sector is certainly the segment of our society that has been most affected by the Coronavirus epidemic. Some activities, especially in the field of live culture, have been in crisis since the beginning of this epidemic. The creative and cultural sector and the meeting industry are the most affected. I would like to quote a fellow Member of the Prednik who, on behalf of the parliamentary group in our position this morning, said: “With all the damage and resources available to deal with the epidemic, the Government has all the arguments to place the financing of the entire culture for this year among crisis items, such as 1.6 billion at the Ministry of Finance, but it was not willing to do so. It is more important for the rulers to punish disobedience and criticism than to help the affected culture.” That's what Comrade Prednik said. With such a large, multi-billion-dollar, high deficit, 8.3 million euros taken from the balance sheet would not have been known if they had been left to the Ministry of Culture for the adoption of the 2020 budget. For example, France has jumped to the aid of museums, monuments and cathedrals with as much as €614 million under a 2 billion-hard project to rehabilitate French culture. We could follow France a little. Maybe both presidents said something about the subject a few days ago. I myself have proposed three amendments to the rebalancing of the state budget for 2020. The first relates to the production of projects and documentation for the start of the construction of the reception and information centre of the Partizan hospital Franja. In fact, after a major recovery in 2010, when it was almost completely destroyed three years earlier by a devastating flood and a devastating wave, the information and reception centre was unfortunately not built. Thus, the restoration of the monument ended somehow in the middle of the way, even though ideas for the center had already been developed. However, the Municipality of Cerkno this year bought a guest house with sanitary facilities in the parking lot outside the hospital for 100 000 euros because it exercised a preliminary right. This amendment, which I propose, would provide the means to produce projects and documentation for the start of the Partizan Hospital reception and information centre. My second amendment relates to the production of projects and documentation to start works on the state road between Želen and Lower Idrija in the area of the fourth development axis, where several projects are carried out. Some sections on this very important axis are completely ignored, especially on this relation, as I said, Želen–Podnja Idrija, where no new investment projects are planned or documentation is prepared for them in the coming years. But this part of the 4th development axis is now far from the worst situation in the entire area. This amendment, which I propose, would accelerate the production of projects and documentation for the start of works on the relationship between Želen and Lower Idrija. The third amendment I have proposed is an amendment to the budget resources for the recovery of mining damage and degraded area in the city of Idrija. Indeed, due to long-standing mining, it is necessary to protect the area directly above the mercury mine in Idrija and to protect the city of Idrija from sitting and other consequences arising from long-standing mining and reflected in the mining damage and degraded environment in the affected area of the mine in the Idrija area. In order not to go more precisely into the interpretation of this amendment, I have proposed an amendment of EUR 545 000 on the basis of which the Ministry of the Environment and Space would contribute to the recovery of mining damage and the degraded environment. The last mining damage was paid in 2014, amounting to EUR 254 thousand, and then the mine was liquidated as a company, and today it says that there is no longer the addressee who caused the damage. But I think that under the Environmental Protection Act because of the degraded area, this should be settled by the state. So much for now and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Meira Hot.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! It's the record itself. Last year's record budget for 2020, 2021 with a surplus of €425.2 million, up to a record deficit of 4.2 billion. Recordably quickly solve the problem of an epidemic, miraculously in Europe, then record number of infections at a record number of tests carried out. In short, today we have heard that the balance of the budget under consideration is the result of a substantial reduction in revenue and an exceptional increase in expenditure due to the exceptional and extraordinary circumstances in which we live. I don't usually delineate myself, but in this place I really have to ask myself, what times do we live in, if exceptional restrictive measures and prohibitions that interfere with our constitutionally guaranteed rights and freedoms are allowed, without any epidemic or emergency being declared. Every Thursday we thus receive some new instruction on how to live, despite the flight of planes, and at the same time there is no legal basis in the form of an declared epidemic or emergency. The epidemic was definitively lifted on 31 May 2020. Ask the self-employed, since they no longer had absolutely no support measures at their disposal from 1 June, they no longer had guaranteed basic income, exemption from compulsory contributions. You know what they didn't have anymore? A lot of people didn't have any work to do, none of it. Bus and tourist carriers, tourist guides, meeting industry stakeholders and the like. On June 1, all those serving as independent entrepreneurs were awakened on a new day, a day that brought them existential problems. Many of them then had to close down their activities because they had no other choice. We from the opposition have urged you to extend the measures in question, as well as the waiting-for-work measure, and in this way help this group of people, but we have come across deaf ears every time. Now we hear that thinking through the new antikronapack 5 is still helping this group – excellent, commendable, but many of those who have been forced to shut down the activity are wondering what they are, whether anyone has thought about them, how to help them, that is, those who had to close up. It's too late for me. It's too little. It's indeterminate. This would also describe this budget balance, which is by no means one of the most socially oriented or most developmental. In fact, there is an alibi for the untransparent spending of exceptional amounts of money at the time of receipt and implementation of anti-korona packages, the acquisition of masks, protective equipment, and quasi-help the economy. And I am seriously referring to quasi-aid, because the guarantee scheme, liquidity loans and all the similar measures that you like to praise, do not work in reality, do not work. In fact, it's the companies that helped each other the most. Because when you talk to individual representatives of the economy, you will know that the most loans that have helped businesses in the first place were immediate obstacles to skip between them so that companies helped each other. Because they trust each other because there are no bureaucratic obstacles and because the help was immediate. On the other hand, they were awaiting months of waiting for calls to be issued, waiting for action by the Government, an extremely liberal procedure, an unclear procedure that opened up more questions than answers, despite ensuring that it was a very simple process and immediate assistance provided by you. Of course, most companies didn't even sign up for these quasi-helps, because they didn't have the knowledge, they didn't have the time to even manage these procedures. Therefore, in my opinion, the most interesting information is how many companies are actually overcoming the crisis situation they have acquired with these guarantee schemes or liquidity loans. Because I think that when we get this exact answer, this one will be pretty broken, it will show the opposite of what you want to show, which, of course, I regret. The fact is, therefore, that this proposal for a rebalancing has already been de facto implemented, because the Government has had full powers to dispose of funds and transfers without any restriction, and that today, with this rebalancing, you are in fact only getting that legal basis for all these acts to be legitimized. Those you cannot simply redistribute to an exceptional item, budget item 234001 Fund for the COVID-19 epidemic. This is a miracle item that does not need to be explained to the public in more detail and does not require transparency. And of course then in the opposition we claim that this rebalancing is untransparent – because it is simply so. We are talking about the rebalancing, in fact, we are talking about the majority of the funds already spent, the government transfers and the substantial reduction of funds to those stakeholders who may not be the most affected by the current structure of the rulings, namely the Ombudsman, the Information Officer, the Ministry of Culture, as already mentioned by colleague Baković. And if they hold your allegations that each individual has received what he asked for, then I am personally shocked by the Ministry of Culture, which on the one hand states that he only endures a 5-million reduction and agrees to an 8-million reduction. Then I wonder if it's a matter of negligence or something, because it's simply insufferable. So that absolutely such a rebalancing, which is really an alibi for the untransparent functioning of the current authority, I will by no means support and cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Nick Prebil has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u100	President, thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister! It's just a game of money. You take some money, you put it somewhere, and the other way around. You said earlier, Minister, that the rebalancing shows reality. Yes, it shows some serious reality and thus a serious deficit, which is at the level – if we take the 400 million surplus that was in the budget under the government of Marjan Sarca – 4.6 billion euros. Are we aware of how much money that is – 4.6 billion euros?Oh, my God! This is almost half of the 2020 budget. And this enormous consumption, or I call it the hole created by this government, is justified by additional debt, and we know where it leads and what a bad effect it has. Finally, you are also reminded by the Fiscal Council that such debt does not reflect budgetary needs; it does bring high additional costs. I think we all know how difficult it is to reduce public debt here. And no matter what you say, the government has helped reduce public debt, very close to the Maastricht criterion, which is 60% of the debt. And you can see at the end of the year at 83%. And how we're going to reduce this public debt, otherwise we're talking about some improvement in the economic climate, but we don't know. Somehow we get the impression that the amount of this enormous deficit just doesn't matter to you, because it's going to work out. I can somehow understand that this rebalancing is a reflection of the current situation, that assistance to people and the economy is essential, that some of the measures taken are also correct, but still; measures need to be done quantifiablely and with multiple effects because we know what these effects ultimately bring. On the other hand, you're reducing where it's least necessary, in science, in research. I, for the last time on the board, read to the Minister of Public Administration that resources in the field of digitisation and active employment are being cut down, right where he himself is speaking – and thus the whole government – that the biggest investment must be made. We simply do not see what is ahead of us as the necessary development for the start of the economy and even less investment in young people, which is more than we need in order for the state to gain even more into the state treasury and thereby improve the status of citizens. As my colleagues have already said before me, I will also be surrounded by these poorly explained large reserves, amounting to 953 million, which are once again almost a billion euros, respected. Do you know how much money that is? And we say, yes, we will spend it if we spend it, we don't know exactly where it's going, because things are unpredictable, but still, we're talking about a billion euros, respected. And no matter what, after the new year, a new budget will come before us, so this rebalancing represents measures for the next three months. And I think we probably know where things are going at least by the end of the year. And no matter what, in the debate, there was also some kind of duality and deceiving, and finally all the government's support, dialogue and proposals were rejected by the opposition. This time no amendments were adopted by the opposition, as were many other proposals. In the LMŠ we proposed measures to raise domestic consumption, which, of course, were overheard. And exactly this measure, let's say encouraging waiting for work, but you know, Minister, this is actually one coma that's being created in our country, because right now and in a second when this action is over, you're going to have thousands of unemployed people in the institution. That's what we're trying to tell you that just some pull of this situation just isn't enough and that you have to come to the National Assembly with numbers. In fact, I would not talk about how the aid packages were sang today, and how much they really achieved, because this is less than what was said and what was wanted to be displayed. Even when drawing on European funds, the Minister noticed on his own that it was not only as simple and that the issue was not going as perfectly as he had imagined, as the Fiscal Council had also pointed out, although it was much nicer than when it was a few ten million in the Sharchev government. In view of everything that has already been said that I will not be too long, I simply cannot trust, on the basis of such data and with such games, that these funds, which are even higher than they were, and the resources that create an additional 7 and plus billion debt to the Republic of Slovenia, I simply cannot support such a budget rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word is "Jura Ferrian."
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u102	President, thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members, Mr Minister and other guests, of course, all those who accompany us are very welcome! We have a 2020 budget balance ahead of us. Although I have a feeling in these six, seven hours of debate that we are talking about the budget. The balance of the budget is the harmonisation of revenue and expenditure on the real situation at the annual level. That's actually what we're talking about today. As we know, there's an epidemic behind us. We are still at the time of the so-called coronary crisis and, of course, subordinated to it, and this has also been the focus of the government's work so far. And it is still and, as a result, it is also reflected in the budget balance for this year. Government measures have reduced the drastic rise in unemployment, which would otherwise be significantly higher. It also helped municipalities, which have certainly devoted part of the funds to mitigating the consequences of the epidemic and dealing with coronary disease, and some of the funds are certainly also for their costs and probably also for investments that are never lacking at local level or that are never sufficient. Also, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have received a lot of assistance. A lot of help was given to people, the economy, in fact a lot of sectors in our country, and that's where the money went. Since we are hearing about where the money went today for at least half the time of the seven hours, I will also explain further where the money went. I've been thinking about whether I should go in such detail, but I think it's worth taking time and even some numbers to say in concrete terms. I am pleased that my colleague Duck supports me in this regard as well. Before I go on this subject, in two or three words, I would like to touch on the little debate that we have heard today. I see in some opposition Members that for every time – not only today but also in recent weeks – you are really trying to reduce the success of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the President of the Government with regard to the negotiated funds in Brussels. Instead of being happy to work on concrete proposals, how to draw as much resources as possible, you try — and this is not a success at all. This government also wants to optimally draw on these funds, and I do not recall that in the past it would be in as short a time as it is in the end now, during the course of the third Janša government, so many meetings and initiatives, not least with the mayors of Slovenian municipalities. I think this communication is extremely important and this communication has been lacking in the past. Today, there were also quite a few speeches about how to get in debt. We have received quite a visual explanation from the minister, yet another word or two. Of course, the difference is whether an individual or a household is in debt or a country; of course, it is also a different approach and procedure. However, anyone in debt would definitely want to be in debt at the lowest possible interest rate. It is said at home that this borrowed money is as cheap as possible, and this is certainly some basic logic, which also accompany the actions of this government, and as we can see from concrete data – for once very successfully. I would like to say something else about the country's public debt, but today we have also seen some graphic material, which is very nice, so that we, Members and Members of Parliament, can look even more closely at these numbers or percentages. There was little manipulation of numbers, so I Googled things a little bit and now I'm going to borrow an article from May 2018, it's published in Siol, here is a consolidated gross public debt, this is a debt of the state sector, which is the percentage on this graph. But you can look at the percentages. Now perhaps a more relevant part, because the newer part we have seen today, but here we see, is the real government of Alenka Bratušek, from which colleague Bandelli comes. In 2012 the government was 53.8% of GDP, followed by a year later by 70.4% and a year later by 80.3% of GDP. However, what is even more relevant is in particular in billions, i.e. in euros, because some factors influence the percentage of gross domestic product. Here we see; in 2012 from 19.4 billion then in 2013 to 25.51 billion and in 2014 to 30.20 billion; so from a good 19 billion in two years to a good 30 billion. That's how much we're owed by the government of Alenka Bratusek. And as far as I can remember, people didn't get the money, they didn't get the economy, they got the bank. So much for a specific explanation with statistics. Today, there was also quite a bit of talk about how anti-Korona packages, what analyses, and so on. I am confident that there will be time for even more concrete and precise analysis in the coming months or in a year, two more than enough, but I would do one such quick review. I think that this data is made on the basis of the month of August or at the beginning of September, so that some number is certainly even more up to date, but this data is certainly relevant to some sense. The success of anti-korona packages 1, 2, 3 and 4 in the realisation itself, says in the workplaces, over EUR 278 million was paid for temporarily waiting for work. Then exceptional aid in the form of monthly basic income – more than €83 million. After dealing with the exemption of contributions to all social insurance contributions – totalling EUR 124 million; and the exemption of contributions to pension and disability insurance for employees who worked – total EUR 434 million, then the payment of occupational insurance contributions – 3 million, the payment of pension and disability contributions – 29 million; and the reimbursement of compulsory health insurance payments for EUR 13 million. So let's continue with the solidarity supplements from the antikron packages. The single solidarity allowance for pensioners received by more than 300,000 pensioners totalled almost EUR 67 million. The single solidarity allowance for other vulnerable groups totalled almost EUR 25 million. We are also talking about pay allowances, the right hazard allowance and special burdens at the time of the epidemic, which totalled as much as €191 million to date, the revenue outage was also partly financed from antikron packages, i.e. the coverage of income shortfalls for private kindergartens – good 2 million, then the dropout of non-disclosure resources for secondary education institutions – EUR 265,000 and something else, the exemption from parental pay for kindergarten – 2.4 million and some more, and the coverage of the mentioned range of services for students' homes at a level of €700,000. Neither did the Government of the Republic of Slovenia forget about agriculture, and the financial compensation due to the loss of income amounted to a good EUR 6 million. In addition to the provision of public services, there were a total of EUR 20 million. In the area of social affairs, too, there has been a lot of work done. I would point out an increased amount of allowance for a large family – a good EUR 3.5 million. There were over 30,000 beneficiaries. And a temporary cash refund of almost a million euros. For the economy, some of the most publicly visible measures are certainly tourist vouchers. According to data from the past few days, more than 730 thousand vouchers are to be cashed, totalling more than EUR 100 million. I am confident that this measure will continue to be implemented in the coming months and that it has many multiplier effects. Then there was also an increase of €24 million in public funds and other legal entities. In addition, an increase in the public fund of the Republic of Slovenia’s intention to promote entrepreneurship of EUR 10 million. And an increase in the earmarked assets of the Slovenian Regional Development Fund for a good EUR 14 million. An extremely important factor, even when faced with so-called coronary crisis, is the health resort. Here we are talking about the reimbursement of the programme to healthcare providers of more than €90 million of current implementation. After that, health care in the field of concessionaires – just over €4 million – is cut off, and more than €86 million is lost. And here, of course, I could say a lot more and count a lot. All of us who are likely to continue to be here in this 11-and-a-half hours, as far as the debate is concerned, will surely hear at least a few more times where the money went, which we are now coordinating with this budget balance, and you can read in the magnetogram what I just counted, as well as in the introduction, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance made it clear. The balance of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020, which we have before us, is strongly social. We can say that perhaps even the most socially oriented in the entire history of the Republic of Slovenia. This, of course, was due to the fact that we were facing an epidemic of coronavirus, that we were still in the so-called coronary crisis. And that the government has faced all this in the way that the consequences and somehow the pain of this crisis will be least felt by individuals, individual households and businesses and, of course, in the final stage, by the country; and that it will recover from this crisis as soon as possible. I will therefore support the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The word is Robert Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Well, if a declared right-wing man declares himself socially-minded, then we really need to hear all the alarms. I'll tell you where the money went. Not just for these positive things. He went to Hmezad, he went to Geneplanet, he went to Acron, and he probably went to some other company, which would be identified, or you would figure out where the money went, and if it went right. You'll find that out for yourself. But it's also good to see other institutions that, of course, you're also trying to submit to your mentality and your way of thinking about how nice this is all, oh, okay, nice and all. Even if you repeat a million times, some of you, in the notes, known facts, cannot become the truth. These PKP measures, including the Minister, can be confirmed, are extended from month to month, and I do not know what else. One day this will be over. And then it'll rest. That's what we're telling you. And you don't want to hear it. There's nothing wrong with freezing these jobs right now. But tell me what happens after that. This plan, this far-reachingness, this far-sightedness, this government cannot overcome. And the debate develops into very interesting things, when we – not just us, on the government side or between coalition MPs – are running out of the balance, which is actually just paper, completely unnecessary, you can do whatever you want, all of this again concentrates on blinding the public. They're opening up their intentions, actually. The Minister said that the EU funds will implement health reform, long-term care, green policy. Well, given the experience we have from this country, it would be wonderful if it were true; but we all know that it cannot be true. You've already been half a year or seven months late this year, you've taken 90% of the budget from SVRK, but the whole world is about to start spinning, and this Slovenia, in particular, with 1. 1. The following year, or the adoption of the budget for the following year. Because it's all too late for this year. Of course, now there will be excuses for not doing it this year because I don't know what the situation is and I don't know what else. Yeah, the virus is a great excuse for anything you want to cover up or cover up. And once again boast of some transparency. And if you don't answer to the National Assembly and you're still three months behind in your reports, at least give your answers to the Fiscal Council. When will you submit credible reports to him upon their request, when will you give up credible assessments and forecasts of this enormous, record-breaking indebtedness of this country? Welfare and health – you have pointed out several times, and we must listen to these mantras too. The Long-Terms Act. If you can't get three ministers, what do you think we're not monitoring?Oh, my God! [[…]] It's gone fast. Three ministers talked about the long-term care law, two of them had a whole press conference, but later it turns out they didn't actually read the law because they didn't have financial structures. You speak one, Minister Gantar speaks another, and Minister Cigler King speaks third. But it's not a press conference if you haven't already agreed. Again you said: “I hear different numbers.” But you probably just don't hear them, and you communicate with them. If we are looking at the Fiscal Council again, so as not to say that we are fictitious: by the end of August, EUR 67 million had been allocated for the purchase of protective equipment, and only EUR 84 million had been met, according to data from the Department of Finance, and the additional EUR 26 million were partially met. “On this basis, we are assessing,” writes the Fiscal Council, “the actual expenditure for these purposes will be increased by the end of the year.” Is it possible for the Fiscal Council to get more reliable and accurate data than the Department of Commerce' Reserves? Let me explain, please. Or something's hiding again. And when we talk about borrowing. Approximately one billion will go into reserves, a little less, we're rounding up. GDP is –9,2 % this year, indebtedness is 82,4 %. It's my conspiracy theory now, but it's quite possible that it will come true. Next year, GDP will be higher, of course, because the crisis will resolve, and overnight, without any of your measures, debt will fall on the basis of growth. And you will again have a nice time, without any work, beating your chest – now we have reduced your debt. You didn't. You didn't. It won't go that fast. And this constant bragging about what we are, what you are. The three governments of Janez Janša have been so far, each one marked by a very big affair, at least one. There were also others, but there were no such resounding and so great and so great in the three mandates of John Janša. Remember: weapons, Patricia, calling three, now fan and mask, and I don't know what else. One day these things will have to be cleaned up. I agree, not just on this side, but on some other side. And when you talked about masks before, and protective equipment – and now I have to be a little bit, I will say, splinter – that they are enough to be properly procured, that you will get them if you need them, the rest of the equipment, although now they are still supplying factories or you probably have already changed your mind and you will start your own again. But obviously these masks are not enough, especially for children in schools, because, if we have already prescribed them, we should all get them for free, and that is something; they are not enough for pensioners, and above all they are not enough for ministers. Apparently the minister didn't have a mask yesterday. One of them could have been taken from Roy or some other warehouse and given her one mask so that she wouldn't be doing any shame to your own actions. And now I suggest to the public that the next time a police officer or a health inspector stops them, he warns and imposes a fine, because he does not wear a mask where the government ordered them to just apologize and say, "U, I'm sorry. However, if anyone in this country gets a fine from this day forward, one fine just to be issued for the mask, the minister must step down immediately. Because if an apology from a citizen is worth less than an apology from a minister, then this country has indeed gone too deep. I recommend that everyone apologize if they violate your rulings. I don't agree with them, but I'm wearing a mask and I'm having a big health problem because of the mask, but it's just a minority. Some people get hurt by masks, but most people make me adapt. A healthy person obviously cannot do so and then apologizes as if the National Institute for Public Health had said that there is no need to wear masks on this event. I don't know what it is anymore – whether it's their decree or NIJ. And the apology seems to be enough. And there's one more thing about reservations. Your secretary has said this, and I now quote: “In view of the reservations for covid-19, yes, I agree, Mr President, it is true that perhaps from the figure itself, from the present record itself, it is not fully clear for what purposes it will be for, but I guarantee that it will only be for the purposes adopted by anti-Korona law.” End of quote. You said something like that today. Your president also said that he knows exactly where he went for every euro, but we haven't finished this year. You already know in advance where this money will be spent and for what purposes. It is very easy to boast in public about what has been done and what has not been done, but when this has to be argued a little more, the arguments fall because they cannot be. No one is so obvious that every euro will know where he'll go by 31. This year's 12th. Neither you, Mr. Secretary, nor your President, though you all think he's all-powerful. He can't do that. So you can't and you can't stop deceiving people, be really realistic and realistic, because I know you can be very resourceful when you look for the possibility of opening doors for future actions. In short, this rebalancing, once again, just shows that outside you seem to have no idea where we are; but when you get a little deeper, you actually see that you know exactly where we are, and you know even more where you want to come and drive us thirsty across the water.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm sorry. I won't be as populism as some people do before me. Oh, my home would be fighting me now, because I'm going to do it again, I've been working in the middle of nature, I've been working in the direction – applied mathematics, well, even something I've been spraying in the middle of, I can honestly admit, but I have to concentrate on imagining these billions. That Sharchev government fell to one ten million on the DZ. More than two LMŠ ministers knocked it down than a Levica or anyone else, but now we're talking about these billions like they're franicols. When I listen to this rather relaxed divided debate today, I remember an interview I recently read with the currently richest citizen of Croatia, who earned that money with work and investment. They've already splattered their bastards, and in the last few days or weeks they've done very well if I put it that way. And he said something like this in that interview; the economic medium-term can only survive something that comes from comparative advantages. Our comparative advantages are not oil, they're not mineral wealth, they're not rare earth. Our comparative advantage should not be overreached, over-exploited labour. I'm kind of afraid, but it wasn't just me who realized that this co-vid story opened up something that had been known before – the developmental unpleasant structure of the Slovenian economy, which also has not so little productivity problems. This should be the subject of this rebalancing, and this should be the subject of the next two budgets. If I'm a bit of a joke, I can tell you that now we know what three months of Desus in this government costs -- 450 grand. In short, until the regular elections, if you hold, Desus will cost us 3 million. The situation is such that we had to go into something that I call a fire-fighting measure, but that does not mean that we give up on this view. It's too early for anyone to brag about how many jobs he's saved, what's great is not great; we'll see about that. Prime Minister Janša also said we don't know how long the virus will be here. Very realistic estimates are, and viruses are dealt with by virologists, epidemiologists, microbiologists, more than defenders, so that at least the following year, if we take very seriously, I agree with the district minister that we will have to work on these projects, and at least the next two governments will do so. They're some facts. I always forget that firm from Lendava, Virs, isn't it, colleague Jože, the golden gazelle of the past year when procurator Virsa said: "We only work too hard with our hands; we work too little with our heads. These are some things we should be dealing with. The aunts mocked me on Facebook if now a Martian fell into this hall, who would have previously followed the advice of John Janša and learned very well our beautiful language – Slovenian, I would have looked at this budget balance and said – U, pee, this must be some very cultural and scientificly developed society and the country that can lower these items. Or if I turn this around, in the future we'll go unthinkingly uncultured. But how? Obviously, because too many times this government, or certain ministers, are pointing, I don't mean you here, Comrade Minister, to be honest with you. If we move on to these European funds, which many of you have mentioned up and down. Frankly, I would be happy if Slovenia received even less of these European funds. Why? Because there'd be a net payoff. And what Suki said very nicely, what my former experts had prepared for her, and also now I have a good one, she forgot to say – net payers come looking for money too. To put it very simply – we're building rail infrastructure, we're going to get that much European funding, we're going to probably rent some loans, we're going to give something out of the budget. And then what? Siemens is going to come, or some other company like that, and it's going to build or build, say, computer science, prisons and so on. Then we'll have tax optimisation. We had this experience in Maribor. The Henkel concert began to write things a little differently, speaking in the human language, and from one year to another, the influx into our budget fell dramatically. It's just some world we live in. It's called capitalism and we need to know how to create capital. We're not very strong here. The plus that the previous government has had, plus what we have so far owed, is somewhere as far as last year's record economy has had a profit. Is it for last year or for the year before last? Last year, I think. It's kind of like we can imagine. The good thing about so-called European funds is that, as my colleague said -- you know, Franjo, that's bad money. And he kept going. Poor money for the bastards. The funds from the European Fund do not do the same as with foreign nets following domestic nets, as this coalition and government have shown in the first weeks of their management of the mask affair. But if it's so easy to talk about billions, then what's it like to say as many millions as it cost to break up the former government, it's a company that happens to be one of the vice-presidents of the government. Then there is a small meal, if 100, 200 thousand were to be earned by the cousin of the second vice-president of this government, about a few tens of thousands of euros – an old story – the vice-president of this government. Well, if it's a billion small lunches, that sandwich, if I remember the LMH government, then it's obviously irrelevant to you. And the problem seems to me that we're running some empty populism here and now we're looking back. What am I supposed to do here with a picture of Janez Janša when he was thrown out of the Communist Union? Then Mark will probably be happy to go back in time in 1985. For the past seven years, I have been here and like one of the idiots — I apologize if anyone gets hurt — seven-eighths of the time we've been doing it back, who didn't do it, who did it. The policy objective is to try to understand and co-create some mistakes that have occurred in the past in the present. I do not see this in this budget balance or 97 per cent of the debates that I have been following here for the seventh year. Then somehow the Prime Minister says that this is the first government to explain all the data to every euro. We still have the cents, by the way. If I touch all the data you explain in that table, it's written - the second block of nuclear power is going to cost over 20 million. Who the hell are you kidding? More than 20 million will cost one good risk of studying this project. Or the answer to a question. Mrs Pivec has been on 126 business trips in the last three years and this has cost me a little less than €210. We've got to do half of it, a letter. One of her official travel costs 1.35 euros. I mean, that's genius. We don't have to talk about digitisation, but Green Slovenia, and let's clone two million Aleksandra Pivec, and we'll be the world champion. If that's true, I don't want to make fun of the lady, but that's official information. Almost the only way I can communicate as a Member with this coalition and the government is by delegation. Make sure you're wrong. Maybe you were wrong. I don't know. Yeah, you checked to make sure he was. Okay, great. Then we have to ask ourselves, who paid the rest of the expenses? The second law of ecology – there is no free lunch. Let me go to the balance sheet. My colleagues have spoken quite a bit, and some have also given criticism. I remember when the SMC was still big, and at the time, the Essemites kept saying that they could not accept any amendments to the opposition because this would undermine the fiscal rule; they should have their mandate by then for reasons of impropriety. I hope we agree here, Comrade Minister, in the budget amendments, even in this rebalancing, we are only moving along the lines. We do not change the framework that has been given and which is here. And at that time, the SDS spoke in some way – but when we were in the time of this Janša government, blah, or somehow in this direction, when or if we still are, we will not behave in such a way that all the amendments of the opposition are overrun, which is likely to happen. It happened on the Committee on Finance. Here I have to paraphrase you, Comrade Shircelj, because somehow you said – When we are in opposition, strike, crush; but when we are on ablast, everything is different. When colleague Bevk is somehow also in this general discussion of the principles of an amendment, I have mentioned these amendments, which I have basically contributed to this bouquet of amendments, I will go from the most financially demanding to the one with less; 25 million – KOGE. KOGE is a clinical department for gastroenterology. If you've been in Parliament long enough, you'll have problems with your stomach and your gallbladder if you haven't forgotten to be human. As Chairman of the Health Committee, I have been with my colleague Ivo from NSI there at the morning college, for 40 years now, four generations of excellent health workers and workers, taken by scientists, have been working — how long ago — in the good hundred years of monumentally protected Fabiani’s byte, which, with all due respect for Fabiani, is only suitable for the medical development museum. During this year's lockdown, as I have the latest data, 4 thousand 500 fewer checks, about 70% of their checks are for certain and different forms of cancers, including very aggressive ones. If we are for health and health, I think there is nothing to debate here; and that you will support this amendment, although I am not overly optimistic. This is one of three, four of Slovenia's hottest infrastructure problems, and we can no longer talk here, but we will be able to do it in five years or ten years' time, even macro-economically, if we look at it, because it means so much cost every year and so many dead people. Second story, 10 million we move within the so-called colored money, that big reservation. It's primarily for a health care home, the health care station Thesno. Those good ten days when I went on vacation, and one day I look at the phone, and I see that it almost burned out there in Tezne, there were three, four Europaletes in the sun and two little sunflowers, and people waiting for the covid test. I don't think I have to explain either. Third modest item, essentially the beginning of these amendments, the user of the Court of Auditors, 610 thousand euros. Why? In the last KNJF we had the Court of Auditors' Annual Report for 2019, we all agreed that this is one of the best working autonomous bodies in us, even in the light of all these minuses, even in the light of the fact that, as it is called, it is an over-scrutinizer of public finances; in the clan of Slovenian, I am a little joking, but I am mortally serious. In short, the body watching whether we really use money carefully and whether there are problems in the legislation and also in some sub-laws, which is why this is not the case. Even the SDS Member greatly commended them on how the mayors say they particularly benefit from resolving many of the dilemmas in the legislation. In that report last year, I was surprised that they almost lacked the resources for education, for development, for upgrading information technology. From that budget line, almost 93% is paid, some are material costs, and then almost nothing is left. Therefore, in fact, this amendment to raise funds somehow for the poor 10% because it is a serious one, even after the age of a relatively young team, which is fine. It seems to me that we urgently need the opportunity and the resources I have mentioned to educate some high-quality auditors and auditors. In order not to be too long, but for at least an hour, if we are serious about this transparency of the data, then I agree with what has been written in the last Saturday annex by the long-term guardian of the budget, including the State Secretary, that she is now also a vice-governance candidate, Mrs Saša Jazbec, that it is necessary to connect the application with the budget base and the Erar or the former Supervisor, and not with too long delay, it would be ideal for him, and we will actually see if something spills up to, if you want, your or our little brother who is fugiers; or whether there are some budgetary resources going to someone who is the best fugier or concrete if I say so. As far as this is concerned, I will end up with a guarantee scheme, but somehow I understand the profit or result, as it was, because many of the people I talk to, who are also in business, do not even hope to go into anything. And what disappointed me today is that the times are hard, and that's why I told Janša when you burned him, and he broke up with these pubs half a year later, in theirs and my good. But this morning's speech by the president of the government was so anemic that a man would cut his wrists. Ablast, whatever the case, must somehow have hope, because the economy is also a civil religion. If politics behaves as if there is no hope, then it is as one of my friends said – but I prefer to close the company down, because somehow it will. And we're all too aware now that one of us was at Cece's concert, that one was at that concert. Come on, please, run into the wall. I can't say anything else. Let's get real. And you're probably going to put one trick back in that fifth, and we're all going to be like one puppy around it, but you're not actually doing what this fifth antiquities would do. This is what you have done in all four of the antiquities so far, and Tonin says that after the sixties Janša will not change. I don't have some crazy hope. I am also greatly disappointed at the work of your house, Comrade Minister, and of Umar. I'm probably going to start to question statistics a little bit when you're politically setting up the director, whether that data is really drinking water or not. A few of my former study colleagues are working in all three institutions, and I know there are quite a few gentlemen and ladies who can count things and who can model. We are talking here on the basis of one percent of how much GDP is going to go up and down; and how much ours say the European Union says. You know, in some countries, especially the coalition MPs, you could say that and the Prime Minister himself — wow, even in Austria it went a little further than we did. Austria will also move faster because it has a better economic structure and has better productivity. And whoever does not understand this should not be a saint in the city congregation, let alone a member or a member of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u108	Thank you very much. In recent discussions, there have been some questions or questions that I would like to answer or explain. One of these was to extend existing measures. It's probably meant primarily to wait for work and everyone else. And that it actually means covert unemployment and that it can change and happen and so on. There is certainly this thesis, and I would like to say that we are not just talking about one measure, but that there is also an institution in the anti-Korona package called part-time work. And this part-time institute will certainly give businesses the opportunity to benefit from this institution. I think that this institute could become, this is my personal opinion, even permanent, which means that it would also be written in some systemic law, at least this possibility to increase the flexibility of work. And don't think that I want to reduce anyone's working rights with this, but it's just that sometimes someone has a job, sometimes they don't have it, sometimes it gets smaller; and this flexibility would be really useful. Here I answer mainly because the Member spoke about what would happen and what the extension of these measures might actually mean. No, here's the vision of getting over this crisis. It'll probably take as long as we don't find a cure or vaccine for this virus, or if this virus miraculously disappears, which probably won't happen. Here these measures are designed to allow some easy way out of the crisis or easier way out of the crisis and then the economy becomes fully normal. I would also like to say this and this is also my personal opinion that this comparison with 2019 is not always appropriate, which means that sometimes some things cannot be compared to saying – see, we finished in 2019, then a few months 2020, the virus came and now it lasts and now we will return to 2019. I think that the structure of the international, European and, of course, Slovenian economy and life will also change a lot. If we are talking about this crisis, and I have already made a comparison of this crisis today with the previous crisis or with that crisis from 2008-2009 and so on, then another difference must be made here, which I have not said so far. And this is that the previous financial crisis has been general, roughly the same has affected all sectors of the economy, while this crisis is sectoral, meaning in other words that certain sectors of the economy are more affected than others; or even more so than others. And from this point of view, some sectors are more affected. Here I mean transport, international transport, all kinds of transport, tourism, probably some activity that is more affected than others. This must also lead to measures. And I also think that in the anti-korona package 5 these measures will be, and already some are, focused if I use the Slovenian word, or if I use a focused, targeted, foreign, and also in this area the government will work and work on. Now we can talk about vouchers that have some positive results. And some of the measures, I think, in PKP5, will focus on certain sectors, which have also been mentioned today in your debates. In other words, I want to say that in a way, it's a plan, it's a vision. It is not meant to do what we can think of; and to know what can happen and that negative things can be prevented or improved by operating conditions, so that we can also focus these measures on individual sectors of activity and so on. Then there was again the question of European money – 10.5 billion. Yes, we have changed projects in this money, these are new projects, and this money can also be used for health projects, it can also be used for long-term care. But these health projects, long-term care, tourism and more must, of course, be linked to the objectives set here by the European Union or the European Commission. And that's green and digital. And in this connection, all these projects need to be prepared. And the government is preparing them in this direction, in the direction that it is not only building one building that will be used for anything already, but that this building is linked to digital, green and that this building is linked to some reform that we have anyway, in fact, all governments have in their programmes. From this point of view, I just want to make it clear that this money is a slightly different kind of pumping, or different criteria need to be met so that this money can actually be pumped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I see there's still a desire to discuss it. Reploco's got a buddy, Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u110	For a moment, Mr. Minister, since I did not want to compare last year and this year, we agree methodologically here that it is not possible. I just wanted to make a comparison of the amount of money. We have made as much debt as the economy has made profits in the past year. And I'd like to ask you something. Let's stop talking about some common places. Green, digital, smart. Probably no one wants to develop stupid solutions. Today it is probably foolish to develop something undigital with it, and even at cost-benefite level, probably no one who wants to develop as much smart as they do will develop something energy-stricken. Green, digital, in fact, it's more smart to slap Brussels if I say a little ugly, because it doesn't have any concrete solutions yet. These are the stories I've been listening to for 30 years, dear God, since I was a freshman. And also no European Commission, no OECD, will answer the question of what our comparative advantages are and on which some of the issues we will build, as a distinct export economy, a better future. That's our job. And let's get to it, not some pictures to show who's at what concert, when Alice was, but when she was, I don't know who.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u112	Just one sentence. According to my information and as I see it, the European Commission already has very designed criteria and projects, a framework for projects for which a country can apply. And since the criteria are also very detailed, substantive, it is true that they are all related to environmental conservation and digitisation, even at the technical level. At this point, I just can't say that it's just talk about saying that it's some kind of larpurlartism, but as I see these documents, it's actually about that.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I'm going through a list of people who want to discuss it. Path login. The first one has the word "colleague mag." Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u114	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members, Mr Minister, representatives of the Government, I also welcome you! I liked what my colleague Franjo said about trying to hold a debate like this, thinking a little bit more forward, not necessarily 10, 15, 20, 30 or 100 years ago. I'll stick to it. Minister, if you will listen to me, you will now hear one compliment. But if you don't listen to me, you won't hear it. The Minister won't hear it, because he obviously won't, but even though it would be good for the Minister to listen, you rarely get praise from the opposition. Yes, I like the government's direction that, in fact, in this crisis, there is also a commitment that there is no sin in this crisis, because it helps people, it helps the economy, it helps society as a whole; and this is some general direction that – I think on this side of this Parliament – we support. This was also the reason why for most of the laws — enka, two, and so forth — there was something missing or something written that then excited us — a vote against. You didn't allow us to vote in favour because you just didn't want any of the solutions that we saw as necessary to be introduced; but despite all the guidance it was right; and I admit that. The other thing that I didn't like was that you just couldn't get out of your skin, so you wouldn't actually be involved in an ideological or cultural struggle all the time. Although we have €4 billion, has it really been necessary to cut the budget of the Ministry of Culture for a few million? With a few billion euros of budget holes, what happened to you? While we are probably all aware that as a nation, we are only a small nation, because we have a special relationship with our language, culture, and cultural heritage. But just like that, you've reduced your funds. I don't understand what it was like for you to be – although numbers aren't big – on individual items you also cut the budget in the Ministry, which also cares about science, development, education. And I know you'll say it's too late at the end of the year. But why did you stop the invitation to tender or April in March, I think, for the first time in eleven years, that would help to co-finance some of the school facilities that we urgently need. And there were a few other things like that. However, here this is where I ask for attention – you have noticed that this time the coalition works as it does, and the opposition has united, at least four opposition parties, and we have tabled several amendments together, which are not so abundant against EUR 4 billion of budget holes. Very little is needed, perhaps even some unintentional error, which we describe as an ideological, cultural struggle, but perhaps only a mistake was to allow us to support this balance of budgets by listening to us, accepting what amendments you are adopting. I am fully aware, like you, that this balance is in fact merely a recognition of the existing situation. But what serious policy can you decide in September to fund it and take it out by the end of the year?Oh, my God! Therefore, perhaps – this is an invitation, you can accept it, but you can not – to accept at least some, at least those amendments that we have tabled together as the opposition of the four parties. Today you have time during this debate, even in the evening and in the morning, as you prepare, my initiative – look at them and if you want, meet with the opposition, we are at your disposal, and allow us to accept the balance together. What I don't understand, Mr. Secretary, is health money. I really don't get it. The funding agency reports that the project has a hole of €270 million. I know there are questions about how much profits have been transferred, but that was official information that we all have on the State reports. What is more important to me was the request, in fact, a loud cry from the competent Minister of Health, that it really needs 220 or 222 million. Everywhere you look at his speeches, you can see how much he was yelling — I urgently need EUR 220 or 222 million; and he got 140. Madam Secretary of State, Madam President of the Health Committee, you may recall, she was trying to justify that money somewhere else. Where else is this money? He says he needs 220, he gets 140, and then that money's out there somewhere. If it has to be out there, it should be transparent to the budget of his ministry, because this is a common budget, so that at least the minister, whom I believe is extremely burdened, will understand more fully that you respect him in the coalition. I'm going to say another little trauma, because against all these big numbers it's not so important, and I'm going to say it because there are some government representatives here, and I'm really asking you to take it into account when you're preparing the 2021 rebalancing. Last September, I realized that something had happened, and that there was some proportionality, some fairness in investing in public health institutions, in fact, in a hospital that was valid about 10 years ago. According to the Ministry, a relationship was established between 2009 and 2018, including the ratio of funding to both clinical centres. Why am I telling you this? Some of us come from that part of Slovenia that is not covered by UKC Ljubljana. There are probably a third of us because UKC Maribor as a tertiary institution covers a third of Slovenia. This ratio of one to two is also seen approximately in the number of individual interventions, almost in the number of employees and so on. And then what happened in 2019? I don't even understand how this could have happened. UKC Maribor fell out of the funding tables. After all, the Ministry continues to explain that there are some common acquisitions of such and different apparatus, which are then distributed across Slovenia. Yeah, yeah, that's great. But where there are direct investments in individual hospitals, according to the tables. I began to ask this in September and after questions, discussions, discussions - public controversy came in January a revised table this year that proves it again; and some silent, loud promises that we will correct this in the course of the year, because we have jurisdiction, nevertheless. And on the committee itself, where we had quite a proper debate, we all found that, in fact, now, with the exception of what symbolic gestures, for this year, we cannot all make enough adjustments together because they are investments. Why I speak, Mr President, honourable Members and Members, especially you, who are of the coalition, because you are significantly more influential than we are on this side; and when you work today, I have read the words of your President, our President of the Government, this is the joint President of the Government, if I understand correctly, is already doing a rebalancing for the following year, about weeks, if I understand correctly, please be careful with investments. It is much easier for you to arrange these things in closed rooms where someone can give up something, someone does something, than we can talk in Parliament and talk about it on committees. I hope you understand that today I really wanted to speak in such a way that the health that has been exaggerated in Slovenia does not increase. I have offered you an opportunity to do what can be done so that there is a serious possibility that, as a part of the opposition, we can support the rebalancing as well. But I will watch today, or you will accept the offer. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Replica, buddy Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u116	Since Dean mentioned me, I also have a little replica. That might have looked like Dean was jumping into my cabbage, but not to me. As President of the National Assembly, I, as then Chairman-in-Office of the Health Committee, have this subject of principle, and I have had several battles and battles with Minister Šabedro today, but it is not just about who falls under our UKC, who falls under yours. I can fall here together, you can fall in Maribor together, and you'll be where you are. And there was something else I wanted to point out. It's partly true what the absent Minister of Finance said. The so-called Green Deal Framework or Green Policy Framework is now being developed. But what I have also said is that this has not grown on my herbs, but I am following a serious European policy that the green deal presented by the President of the European Commission is a mix, as one said, of insufficient commitment and over-optimism. And there is a debate that we should also be able to have at some closed session, how and how we can, and with which, as we say, professors, the tangental coalitions with which we contribute to the design of this framework by related countries. To be able to put into this framework those contents, those economic developments that we consider to be our medium-term comparative advantage. And it seems to me that this is some task we should be dealing with, not by going to Ceco, but by going to Fishbowl.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Damir Orehovec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. I agree with what Mr. Jew said. Indeed, the last call for a local community for kindergartens, primary schools and sports was in 2011 and at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport we are aware that the needs in this area are great, but when we closed it all, we did not know how things were going to go: and then we made those funds to control the epidemic. And as I explained earlier, we will continue to invest in this area in the coming years.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u120	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! Yes, with a balance, we help people, we help the economy, and we keep jobs. All the PKP measures were largely designed to restore the economy. Let me stress that the opposition did not object to this and cleverly, as it does today in the budget's rebalancing. The only thing I agree with my opposition colleague, Mr Trčko, is that there is a lot of empty populism here today, and there really is a lot of empty populism today. I believe that the measures are quality, Slovenia is among the better countries, as well as the negotiated funds from Europe. In the next financial framework 2021-2027, we negotiated very well at 12.5 billion. With the record budget and the European funds negotiated, I believe that there will be multiple effects on the Slovenian economy, on our employed citizens and on all other citizens. Not to mention proposals to reduce red tape and tax burdens, which bring many good measures, of which I am sure our citizens will be left with more in their wallet. People understand politics by sticking to their wallets. In the proposal for a rebalancing, the resources for easing the epidemic and eliminating the consequences of the epidemic are intended primarily for intervention measures, compensation for salaries, temporary waiting for work, exemption from contributions for all social insurance and for persons on temporary leave for work, exemption from contributions to pension and disability insurance for workers who work, exceptional assistance in the form of monthly basic income, reimbursement of sick leave from compulsory health insurance, one solidarity allowance for vulnerable groups of persons, coverage of income losses for public service providers, such as kindergartens, primary schools, students and student homes, sickness allowances and special burdens during the epidemic, financial compensation for the loss of income in agriculture, tourist vouchers, provision of liquidity and support to small and medium-sized enterprises, compensation for salaries due to quarantine, protective equipment and other border control measures. I have to respond to all the obvious, that the balance is undeveloped and similar. If I type the word "rebalancing" into Google, it's the first thing that says to me that the rebalancing is a rebalancing of the projected expenditure and revenue. The balance is by definition the adjustment of real-state numbers, figures on the budget expenditure side and on the country's budget revenue side. And this rebalancing will only apply for three months and we cannot talk about some developmental orientation or the indevelopmental attitude of the rebalancing. But I hope that we are all aware here, and also those who monitor the session on television screens, that the balance is due to covid-19, so I have to answer here all your obviouss that we have raised 4 billion minus. Of course, it's happening in public. You are popular when you say such things, but here it is necessary to say that the proposal for a rebalancing is marked by the consequences of covida-19 and that this is also seen in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Here we need to be very clear, and I hope that people understand that too. But here we have to answer some of the criticisms that the rebalance is undeveloped, and to say some of the facts, pour pure wine. For scientific, research activity in this rebalancing, our coalition spends 10 million euros this year more money than was the 2019 rebalancing adopted by the Charles Coalition at that time. To support technological development projects, our coalition is spending 12 million more this year than it did last year. As far as modernisation, transport infrastructure in general, investment maintenance and construction of state roads are concerned, €40 million is allocated more money than in the planned budget for this year. And our Minister Jernej Vrtovec, here I have to make this clear, strengthens this area, which will be felt by all road users, our citizens. Almost 11 million and a half are more money to maintain public rail infrastructure, green mobility and sustainable mobility of 6 million. Today there was a lot of talk and criticism about funds for the Ministry of Culture. The MP says we're cutting up funds for culture. What a lie and what a deception. The funds of the Ministry of Culture after this rebalancing amount to a good EUR 189 million. Ladies and gentlemen, this is €27 million more than the funds were realised at the same Ministry in 2018, according to the budget adopted by the left-wing government at that time. I believe that it will be difficult for you to accept this fact that, despite the decline in GDP for culture, this government is committed by the Left Government to more than it has recently committed, at a time of high economic growth. As far as health care is concerned, it's a very important area. You all know that due to covid-19 today, some 80,000 people are unacceptably waiting for some kind of intervention or a specialist review. This is a very big problem, and as a result of this, the government's proposed rebalancing of 140 plus 50 amounts to €190 million more money to reduce waiting lines. And here we are pleased, I must especially give this to Mr Gantar, Minister of Health, that he has listened to the initiatives of New Slovenia, which means that private doctors can also run on the call for these funds to reduce waiting lines. The budget balance includes resources for the protection and rescue system and increases by 2 million in relation to the adopted 2020 budget adopted by the Sharčev government. As a volunteer firefighter, I am extremely pleased that the Ministry of Defence will arrange a system of insurance for voluntary firefighters, their equipment and premises. The Ministry is also planning a central centre for a common response to natural disasters, where all units from the security and rescue system will receive the premises, according to civil protection, firefighters, cavemen, divers and so on. Slovenia therefore receives three specialized sub-centres – for the stomach in Kočev, for floods in eastern Slovenia and fires in nature in Sežana. The project relating to the acquisition of cohesion funds in the next financial period 2021-2027 for the content of protection, rescue and aid is estimated at 150 million. The programme provides for the purchase of special equipment and the construction of training centres, which will greatly help to improve the working conditions of firefighters, particularly in the case of more difficult interventions. I also listened to an LMSH Member who said we didn't give anything. How come we didn't give anything? We've given 304,000 pensioners 66.8 million, 130 thousand workers waiting for work and 23 thousand 500 employers at 49.2 million. The government also gave 32 000 self-employed and farmers 11.2 million, 49 000 728 recipients of social assistance, 29 thousand 150 large families; a total of 140 million were distributed. Remember, we also gave local communities, we raised averages to municipalities, we devoted money to investment, development and normal operation at the local level. Above all, I would like to stress this in particular, but in particular we have given money to people and not to banks to solve a bank hole. Or, if you want to be even more specific, the implementation of job conservation measures, intervention measures to pay back salary for waiting time – the realization of 278 million, the number of beneficiaries 147 thousand and more. Extraordinary aid in the form of monthly basic income – realisation of 83 million, number of beneficiaries 51 000. Implementation of the measures to exempt contributions to all social security contributions of 194 million, number of beneficiaries of 454 thousand. Exemption from the payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance for employees who work – realisation of 434 million, number of beneficiaries 479 000. Also in the area of solidarity allowances. Single solidarity allowance for pensioners – number of beneficiaries 304 000, realization 66.8 million. And a one-time solidarity allowance for other vulnerable groups of 24.7 million. The implementation of measures also adds to salaries. Hazard allowance and special burdens during the epidemic – 191 million. We haven't forgotten about agriculture either. Financial benefits due to a fall in agricultural income of 6.2 million. Implementation of public service measures – implementation of 20.7 million. Outage of public services in student homes, in student homes, school kitchen services, coverage of revenue losses for institutions with special needs, coverage of revenue shortfalls for public kindergartens, coverage of income losses for the CSOD, coverage of revenue in the field of sport. Implementation of social measures, exceptions to the enforcement of rights under the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act – a 4.4 million reality. An increased amount of supplement for a large family of 3.5 million. Payment of 56 million cashed tourist vouchers, number of beneficiaries – 546 000. And in the area of health, reimbursement of 90 million of the funds of the health care providers programme. I believe these solutions have been well received. And I can't help but react to the obvious opposition. One is your beautiful words and your attacks on the budget rebalancing, and people know exactly that once in their lives they've gotten something. They got the money, they got the vouchers. I believe that we cannot help everyone in this country, but that we must help as many people as possible; I believe that we will also help the meeting industry, because they are still disadvantaged. It is simply that the fight against the epidemic requires new resources and new resources require a budget rebalancing, so I support the budget's rebalancing in order to spend as little time as possible in order to make people live and work as normal as possible. And I invite all Members to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Reploco has a colleague, Pavšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u122	Thank you. I think it is necessary to further explain my claim that this government has given nothing. If you know anything about public finances or public finances, then you also know that the government has given you nothing. This is what taxpayers have given, this is what the budget has been given to people themselves, those who have worked in the past, those who work today, and those who will work in the future. That's why this government gave nothing, they gave the taxpayers to themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u123	Thank you very much. My friend Igor Peček has the floor. Igor Patchek?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u124	I'm sorry, I didn't hear you, Mr. President. Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the beginning, I will turn again, but very briefly, because I have already told the Committee on Finance much about what I think about these reserved funds or one billion. I also told the Minister that I am aware that it is very difficult to plan these funds, to what extent and for what purpose they will be used. However, we have only one starting point: and we know for what purposes we have spent them in these six months. And here I will refer to the assessment of the Fiscal Council. The Fiscal Council estimates that we should spend 350 million in the last three months, and whatever we're turning these numbers, we've booked more than one billion. And when we thought it was an unexplained one, we thought of the good 600 million we have booked, we don't know what we're going to spend it on. The problem I see is bigger. Once we deduct funds to finance measures to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic, the rebalanced projections indicate a higher expenditure growth than last year and a higher growth than in the adopted budget. That's what the Fiscal Council warned us about. This means that we will still spend more than we planned last year, with substantially lower revenues than the 2020 budget prepared by the government of Marjan Sarca. And that's a fact. If I can simplify things a little bit, it would mean — I'll earn less, but I can spend more. In certain exceptions, this might even make sense, but only with some clear prediction of how and when this minus will be covered in the future. Furthermore, the Fiscal Council also recalls the extent of the debt that does not fully reflect the budgetary needs. Once again, as I said in the introduction, I know that it is a very difficult task and I do not envy the Minister, and I have also said that on the Committee on Finance, he is doing a very difficult job. However, these are facts. As far as the readings made in the discussions of my colleagues are concerned. Personally, I never spoke flatly about the fact that the measures were bad. This has been seen and that our proposals for amendments were a pyro action to promote individual Members or individual Members' groups. Believe me, that's not true. Most of the additions that were submitted, which were more than fifty, were coordinated between all opposition positions or parliamentary groups and have a substantive basis and have a substantive explanation. And they certainly don't break the concept of your proposal for a rebalancing. I think you have to admit that, too. Of course, we can ask ourselves about the effectiveness and proportionality of the measures. And the facts kind of talk about it in a way. After all, the distinguished Madam Secretary of State on the Committee on Finance has said, among other things, that I will now say by memory, I do not quote that the dynamics or impact of the implementation of the measures are different from that planned. I understand that there will be no mistake. I totally understand. However, when we talked about the effect of the guarantee scheme or the PKP2 package, where we saved the liquidity of businesses, the Minister argued a month after the adoption that this scheme would happen, that it would take some time to be foreseen by the end of the year; now we both know or we all know that it did not happen and it will not. In the letter of Marjan Šarca they drew attention to the wrong grounds and understanding of this scheme, proposed additions, but we know how the opposition's amendments are. We know that the lending process is different. The credit approved by the business bank must be transferred to the SID bank, so that you can get the guarantee and, if I say a little bit at home, the SID bank will add its demands. For a company with a relatively favourable rating, it is better and cheaper to borrow through a commercial bank; however, it is true that small entrepreneurs, espouses who do not have such good credit ratings, cannot afford such credit. I allow and tolerate mistakes and miscalculations, even my own, we understand each other, no one is perfect, but it is only right that we might admit it once – look, we did not do the right thing, let us fix it. I think it's rational for you to correct a mistake even if someone else alerts you to it. But at the time, it was only very loud that we devoted 2 billion euros to the economy. When I first talked about lower revenues than the budget, and when we deduct funding for measures, we are still talking about higher expenditure growth, but then it is not just a rebalancing. Rebalance means good coordination. So, revenue and expenditure are known, we subtract unpredictable circumstances like covid, and we make a rebalance. Take it where we have too much, or give it where we estimate that we will need more money. But that's not what this is about. As far as EU funds are concerned. The debates were also held. I already told the Committee on Finance, and colleague Sukič also said how these EU funds are being shared. Minister, you said all the funds were recoverable. It is not entirely true because one Member State is still paying more, so we also have net receipts and net wages. The different coefficients normally determined by the European Commission are how the budgets are then implemented in relation to the gross domestic product. It is true, for the first time, the European Union has allowed us to borrow. I will not assess whether it is cheaper or better to be in debt alone than the state, says the Republic of Slovenia, whether it will be cheaper to take credit within the European Union. I think the minister here knows a lot more than I do, and this decision or proposal will be his, so I'm not going to go into it. However, the funds in the next financial perspective will definitely have to be drawn out differently because the priorities are different; and projects will also have to be set up differently, as we all know that almost 60% of these funds will be green and digital. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Monica Gregorčič has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u126	Thank you very much, President, for your word. A nice hello to you all! When I am listening to some of my fellow Members' discussions today, I have had to check several times to see if we are really at this point in the agenda, because some have somehow gone to the political populist field. And yet I would also like to respond to certain statements, insinuations or revelations, because we have entered the field of procurement of protective masks, wearing or not wearing protective masks by the Minister of Education, who today has apparently become some top political topic, even calls for her resignation are being heard today because of her slip-up, of course loud calls by the opposition, which is astounding to fellow Member Jani Möderndorfer a few days ago, she has not been able to give a single warning. I recommend to the opposition – write another interpolation, maybe by the end of your term you'll be vibrating. There were also calls, somehow, that we should not deal with the past and co-create the future together. Nevertheless, I would like to remind the opposition colleagues that they have been given a deadline for cooperation by the government coalition, but they have rejected it; and rather they break or criticize all the measures taken by this government and are unable to recognise that there have been several measures, including in addressing this health and economic crisis, that have been successful. I will highlight one really positive story of the so-called tourist vouchers or vouchers that saved the tourist season, jobs in the industry where there are about 60 thousand people, 60,000 jobs were in some way, and although perhaps in the short term, saved, people had jobs. In addition to the economic impact, the effects of these vouchers or this measure have been multilayered. At the end of social life, in addition to regular ones, such as the annual vacation regression that employees receive each year, this was a supplement that all citizens could use for their summer vacations for regeneration. I think that it is because of this measure that a number of people have been able to afford a few days of vacation, a few days of rest and a well-deserved vacation this year. In addition, the social impact, without neglect, would mention the educational impact. We all had an opportunity to get to know our beautiful country a little bit more, which we certainly don't know enough, and we had the opportunity to learn a little bit about its slightly more hidden corners, not just the most famous tourist pearls. And the health effect was here in terms of prevention, a little less travel around the world and, hopefully, a little less import of the virus from abroad. I would like to see my colleagues in the opposition at least be able to acknowledge any positive effect or to say a word of praise. I will not be long, I will conclude my debate, because the members of the Committee on Finance have already held one round of debate at the Committee's meeting, but also there, and today, the issue of savings, the level of savings that both the population and the companies in the form of deposits in banks have. When these figures are mentioned, however, I am always a little scared, as it is necessary to know that they are personal savings and cannot be made available to the State; however, they can be activated by the holders of applications if, with appropriate tax or other incentives, they can be placed in other forms of savings, such as the capital market. But that is why certain tax or other market mechanisms need to be introduced, and by no means can we just talk flatly about the amount of some savings in banks and how we will spend them. I'm afraid it might remind you of other times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Madam Member, for your debate and in particular for the introductory warning that all the debaters stick to the topics on the agenda today, this is a budget rebalance. But I would expect you to stick to the darkness above all and not ride into the darkness, such as masks, ministers, interpolation and so on. One more warning to everyone or an appeal to stick to the topic of rebalancing. Mr. Han has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u128	I wanted to replicate Monica. In fact, she tied herself to the opposition so we wouldn't talk about the balance. I was just talking about the balance, and Monica didn't say a word about the balance, that's all. If you're reading to us, it's a good thing you tell it yourself. I agree with everything you said, but there wasn't a single sentence on the balance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I agree with you, too, so I warned my colleague. It is true, however, that this was not a classic replica either, Mr Han, but a more procedural proposal. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u130	Yeah. Procedural proposal. Take a look at the Chair, as it is not a problem when you get involved in commenting and directing the debate itself, you have an option under the rules of procedure, but today's budget meeting has been going on for several hours and the fact is that the budget itself has not been talked about in many, many, of many. However, you felt it necessary to stop by now when Coalition Ambassador Monica spoke. I think that's a little unfair. If the debate has gone on from this framework, you, the President, must take a step forward and note this at the outset. And as soon as this debate comes out of the box, we also have to draw attention to this somehow. Not that, then, exactly in one Member, which is a bit critical of the side from which you come, but then you have the feeling that you have to answer. I am really asking that all the Presidents agree once and that you begin to follow the rules of procedure and that we stick to agenda items and that this should be defined at the outset. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, at the time of my meeting today, I was careful that all the debaters followed the topic on the agenda, this is a budget rebalancing. If a fellow Member has this misfortune that I am now in this place in charge of the meeting, and I have kindly warned her that she is sticking to this topic, I regret that I cannot help it. It is true, however, that it is my duty to take care of the subject of the agenda according to the rules of procedure; and I will warn everyone in this Chamber when it comes to this subject too far. Indeed, this topic is broad, but it does not speak of sanctioning Members, interpelling Ministers and so on, as Mrs Monika Gregorčič said. I'll be consistent with everyone. We continue the debate. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Let's get Mr. Robert Polnar ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! I look a little positive, and I can say under the line that despite all our opposite views, this disaster, this epidemic, this new coronavirus, has somehow just connected us. Why? I highly appreciate any vote for or at least abstention when we have received packages from 1 to 4 and I will also appreciate and be grateful for any vote for when the fifth package – PKP5 – will be on the agenda of the Committees or at the meeting of the National Assembly. Rebalance, I had a chance days ago to have a nice conversation with Dr. Andre Bertonsle. You all know him. We both agreed on two things. I acknowledged to him that the budget framework for 2020 had been well assessed by him and he agreed that this balance was actually necessary and that it was well assessed. He is an expert, I have appreciated him for quite some time, an excellent businessman; indeed, a little less politics, which he himself has acknowledged several times; and this has sometimes also brought him into some ultimate conditions or debate, which has not been well received on some sides. But it doesn't matter now. Perhaps now that I am with the finance ministers, but there is also some new and good practice, admit it, colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, that Minister Andrej Shircelj is here with us all the time. And on Saturday on the Committee on Finance, and now, I especially appreciate it. I know it won't be a round of applause, but this is the Minister's attitude towards the Members, which the former Member has. I will not respond to any of the debates that have the title – the record itself – because it is the softness of the debate and it is unrelated. We're not going anywhere like that. Let's look at the numbers, let's look at what the absorption capacity of individual programs, subroutines and so on, what we can draw, what we can realize by the end of this calendar year. Yes, I understand that this is a rebalancing of the budget for 2020. I may touch myself with just one recommendation, but it was obvious to us that we were taking measures that restricted our freedom, violated human rights and so on. Indeed, I propose reading, because it is not a long article, 20 pages, Dr Verica Trstenjak, former Advocate General at the Court of Justice of the European Union, which writes in May this year on fundamental rights right at the time of the coronation from the point of view of European Union law. Fundamental rights in the European Union are regulated by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. It also talks about limiting fundamental rights, about the specific conditions under which rights can be restricted, and which I think is particularly important because we talk so much about human rights, I always say that the first of human rights or fundamental rights is certainly the right to health or life. That's what the teacher signs up for. I really suggest reading this contribution. And just one more measure, which we've talked about a lot, is probably clear to everyone today, it's very brutal to hear, even though it wasn't the same, locking people within communities in normal times wouldn't be normal. But the pandemic is certainly not a normal time. And that is why, unfortunately, also extraordinary measures, and certainly not the extraordinary situation under our constitution, which is the Government, yes, the National Assembly also, of course, but always on the basis of expert opinions, here I think mainly of epidemiologists. In particular, I am continuing with the rebalancing, my colleague Reberšek has already counted some transfers that we actually wanted and we have actually helped people and the economy. It is only necessary to recognise, however, that the measures taken by the Government or the National Assembly, the National Assembly, were those who actually kept the Slovenian economy at working temperature so that it did not fall too much that it did not cool down. We don't know what's gonna happen next. But who knows how many infections during potato vacations will be tested in 3,000? Who knows how to say that? But who knows how many infections there will be for Christmas this year? [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, mate Polnar, but I can't ask because there's no one here. There's no one on the left, so I don't have an address to ask them how many infections there will be on potato vacations or Christmas. If we had this curve, then believe me, because we also know how to calculate things in Slovenia, we would also be adapting measures – measures for people, to infect infections and, of course, measures for the economy. None of the measures taken by the National Assembly or the Government have been found or found in any textbooks. You can say, of course, we improvised. Yeah, there was no other option. But it's true that we talked a lot. You know that the Congress Center in Brdo pri Kranj was practically full every day; whether government, government and economy, government and I don't know, health institutions and so on, and unions and so on. If I proceed now and stop at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the same opportunity. Many tell us that we, the right - centred government, are the most left, even left - hand governments, that we have divided too much. I don't know, but when it comes to help, it's also important that it's very fast, that it's fast. And the budget resources of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities will be, as proposed by this balance – I am sure that the budget balance for 2020 will amount to 2 billion 228 million. Compared to the 2020 budget adopted, this means an increase of €593 million and €846,000. Compared to the rebalancing of the 2019 budget adopted by the previous government, the 2020 rebalancing to the Ministry amounts to €629 million, €609 000 more. That went to the people. Perhaps someone will say that someone was not entitled to it. Then tell the public or the law that we'll take it back. I believe we're not going this way. We're not going. And because I have always been very loud in the last few years, and in some ways either the defender or the Ombudsman of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget, and I have been critical that these funds are not enough. That there are too few of them and that we need to exclude membership for various international organisations and so on from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because this is not the activity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And that it would go out of budget, but okay. I am now pleased that although the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has had some clear, limited operating conditions, the balance of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2020 is 6 million and 763 thousand higher than the approved budget for this year. And I have to say here with one sentence that I'm satisfied with. Last time we heard from the Finance Committee, we were criticising why the budget cuts in the Ministry of Defence budget were being cut. Here we must be very careful and first believe that if you want some money to be pumped, spend that they are needed first in order to succeed, procedures that are usually long-lasting. That financial transaction or payment shall run as quickly as possible. I think that colleague Bandelli of the SAB on the Finances Committee had a problem on Saturday, and there was a fire he was talking about in the event of a natural disaster, and he said there were no helicopters. And I went to see the Republic of Slovenia Department for Protection and Rescue. The Administration of the Republic of Slovenia will have €53.2 million for protection and rescue with the 2020 Rebalance. This amounts to €53 million, which represents 10.3% of the Ministry's financial plan. In view of the financial plan adopted for 2020, the proposal for a rebalancing is higher, higher, by EUR 2 million. Integral funds are higher than €8.7 million; EU projects with relevant Slovenian participation are lower, lower, in the proposal for a rebalancing of €7 million. Now, note that the largest share of the funds was planned, the largest share of the funds was planned on a registered project, as already in 2018 the Slovenian Directorate for Protection and Rescue prepared a project proposal to improve response to natural and other helicopter-buying accidents, to train rescue workers and to raise public awareness of disaster protection – totalling €6 million through the Norwegian Fund. However, from the SVRK, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue received information that the project idea was rejected. So this project, this process, the process that I've been talking about, is sometimes excruciating, I'm sure it's also bureaucratic, it's long, it's just not finished. It actually started in 2018. I'm not pointing at anyone with my finger because it's not made. And so on. There was also talk about sports if we didn't have a hearing for sport and so on. You know that, in the previous term, Nova Slovenija introduced a twin, two laws, a new law on income and a new law on corporate income tax, where we wanted donors, to sports companies for a precise purpose, under specified conditions, so that there would not be abuse, the tax base would be reduced by a double donation. Of course, some of you said justly at the time – what about the culturers? It's true, it's true. What about culturers? With this idea we are moving forward, and the Strategic Council for Debarcation has also partially intervened in the changes to tax legislation, so far only with ideas where this matter of donation will generally be resolved. For now, we are somewhere in the draft, the progenitor, just the idea of what the final result will be, what the final text will be, this moment we don't know, and unfortunately I can't present it to you. But we have a lot of opportunities, believe me, because we know this, with the changes in the budget for 2020, 2021. We have already listened and accepted, accepted, helped to adopt several amendments to the budget in the 2004-2008 mandate; I think it was 2009 or 2010, not to hold me to the floor, we supported the opposition's proposals. We're backed up. We also listened to the SD amendments, I think it was 2012, we came so far that the SD budget also supported it. And the budget was adopted without a vote against. So we can do this. Of course, I'm not alone, I can't speak for the entire coalition, believe it or understand it. Rebalance is essentially a technical matter. And then there will be an opportunity for some more concrete, of course fair play cooperation. Of course, I hope that we will not permanently listen to us steal that the measures were, first of all, too fast, and then the other says too slow. Well, we say they were timely and effective. Let the Court of Auditors be the one to review the Final Account of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and the Court of Auditors is that Supreme Auditor who says whether there was any euro or whether there were some EUR 100 or perhaps a million inefficiently, recklessly spent. The Court of Auditors is that, it's not a political body. We can mess around here with ugly words, but we don't get anywhere like that. So much for this stage. As we have already announced, the New Slovenia Group will support the 2020 budget rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Bandelli has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u134	Thank you. Yes, Comrade Joseph, you mentioned a helicopter. I was talking about a rescue helicopter for fire-fighting purposes. And the fact that it would probably come from the title of that famous law that we're about to adopt is 780 million. That's what I was talking about, if that was what it was. I've mentioned this to the minister several times. As far as what you've accepted the opposition's years, when they were, that's history. If you'd been a little tactical, you could've done something different here. You've betrayed every possible amendment, not one you've ever accepted. We would accept one from each Member Group and there would be less than half of the unrest. That's all we'd do. You just don't have tactics, because you have to do it completely – no. That's your system, and that's the problem. And what you said about the Court of Auditors report. Of course, all that's missing is that you're putting another new director there or the one in charge with the card. Then the report will be neutral or whatever. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u135	Thank you very much. You have a procedure, Mr. Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Please instruct your colleague Bandell that neither the National Assembly nor the Finance Committee have yet voted on the adoption of a single amendment. We have not yet voted on the amendment. Please teach him about the procedure for adopting the budget or the rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I believe he heard you, so I will not repeat that we will vote on the amendments tomorrow. We can now proceed with the debate. Mr. Robert Polnar has the floor. Get Mr. Joseph Lenart ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. Madam Vice-President, let me tell you in the beginning that I will speak exclusively about the subject of the budget rebalancing. In the last part, while I will be theoretical about the relationship between public debt and gross domestic product, you may think that I have come; then you will see in the conclusion that I have not. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! When I look at the balance, first I see two numbers – 9.2 and 13.4. The difference is 4.2; billions of euros. A billion linked to one currency is an entirely unimaginable number for an ordinary person, except in some rare historical periods of hyperinflation. But today we are not talking about, for example, the family budget, but we are talking about the state budget. Here, of course, the billion is something completely different, and in the Slovenian case, it is not entirely unusual. There are three questions that come to me in the assessment of the balance sheet. Have government measures so far been effective? How, in what ways will the state repay its debts? And what is the actual economic price of all that is recorded in the balance sheet? As a starting point, I take two entities, first the implementation of measures under individual anti-korona laws and then the programme priorities of the budget rebalancing. I made an assessment of the implementation of the measures on the basis of a report from the Ministry of Finance following seven sets and found the following. As far as jobs are concerned, the expenditure was €361 million and €443,000 by 31 August. As regards all expenditure related to work contributions, including pension and disability insurance or any other liability, there were 605 million and 274 thousand. Solidarity allowances total 91 million and 600 000. Supplements to wages, that's especially important, that famous article 71 of the First Anti-Cornic Law, totaling 191 million and 115 thousand. Public service delivery – EUR 20 million and EUR 768 000. And what is usually overlooked and not even visible, co-financing or investment in economic infrastructure, is that intangible, but that which enables the economy to function or finance population spending, 80 million and 100 000, with particular emphasis on the increase in the earmarked assets of the public fund of the Republic of Slovenia to promote entrepreneurship of EUR 10 million and the increase in the earmarked assets of the Slovenian Regional Development Fund of EUR 14 million. In addition, what has been indicated from the budget to health service providers and relates to the reimbursement of programme funds to healthcare providers of almost €91 million. And if we add all this together, we get the value of a billion 441 million euros. The number itself does not say much, but it has to be placed in a certain time frame and this has been realized, ladies and gentlemen, within five months. Within five months – billions and 440 million euros. And let me illustrate this with some more tangible information. So we're talking about five months. This is the value that is slightly higher than the average of the five annual budgets of the Municipality of Ljubljana, far the largest, far the richest municipalities in our country. Here, however, we can see that not something has been done, but very large and very specific, in the area of co-financing activities in the fight against the epidemic. I am now moving to programme priorities in the budget balance, which, of course, we need to know that it has emerged in a completely changed macroeconomic situation. To illustrate, ladies and gentlemen, we have adopted a decree on the framework for the preparation of the country's budget for the period from 2020 to 202022 on 24 April 2019. And you know what we wrote there? That we will have a reduction in public debt from 2019 from 34 billion to 2022 to 31 billion. We talked there about the structural balance, which will be increased in each financial year by about 0.1% of gross domestic product. Then we changed that decree on May 11th this year. And in that one year, one year ago, those beautiful numbers turned into dust and ashes, and it was only because of one thing — the virus. This is good to write in memory and also mind, when it is very easy to talk about how, for example, at this point in time, the government should know exactly what it is going to do and how, for example, for September 2021, each budget item on two decimals should be accurately calculated. So program priorities, first traffic and transport infrastructure. Lift for 29 million; from 808 to 837. The main starting point is, of course, that we are in a deep recession and that negative economic growth is likely to be realized in this year between six and eight percent of gross domestic product. Local self-government remains at the same level. 88 million planned, that's how much will be realized. It must be said that, as far as local self-government is concerned, there will be a drastic incision or intervention in the structure of the distribution of income as a basic source for financing the average. If everything is normal, we will collect €2 billion and €650 million of income this year, with some 245 million being reimbursed for overpayments. The rest will be distributed by key: a billion 308 million for the municipalities, a billion 127 million for the country and 15 million for the capital. And if we add up the capital and the municipalities, we get that 54% of the revenue collected, which is also the goal set out in the Community Financing Act. Programme priority Education and sport, increase by 31 million and a half. Entrepreneurship and competitiveness – from 172 million to 183 million. Labour market and working conditions – from 304 to 336, there is a rise of EUR 32 million. It is, of course, necessary to say that these numbers have been evaluated and that certain derogations may be made in the implementation. However, given that we are now in the second half of September, it is true that the last three months are always the most active and intensive on the budget spending side, I hope that I have no choice but to hope that these prospects will also be realized. However, it must be said that, of course, there are things that are shrinking. And one of the most resounding things is the budget of the Ministry of Culture. It was planned to amount to 197 million and 800 thousand, and it will be realized if the rebalancing is completed as planned, at 189 million and 500 thousand, representing 8 million and 300 thousand less or 4.21% less. At the meeting of the Finance Committee on Saturday, I listened to a State Secretary from the Ministry of Culture explaining the reasons for this four-percent fall; and it was like pouring water into the sand. Then I looked at the realisation at the Ministry of Culture after the final accounts of the 2018 budget and for 2019, with the closing account for 2019 not yet formally published and provided me with this information from the Ministry of Finance. If this year is realized as planned, 189 million will be realized. The implementation in 2018 was 162 million and in 2019 172 million, or 173 million, if I round up. This means that realisation in the economic year when we had 2.2% economic growth, by 15, 16 million in particular, was 9.6% lower than in the marked recession year when we had negative economic growth, is going to be minus 6 to minus 8%. And, of course, this is where I got that typical Slovenian genius loci. Slovenian culturers have a habit and habit of always getting ugly when the word is applied to culture. They get angry and angry all the time, but certainly over the general limitations which cannot and cannot understand how important culture is to our national existence. However, when we were preserved among the many and dangerous military nations, among the various elected and heavenly peoples, even among the economic superpowers only with our own smile of civilization, as is true culture. This year they are especially concerned with the monetary pillar of today's Slovenian culture; the policy of tightening the culture of the belt. I'm not saying that sometimes it's not true. And that all of this leads us to a dangerously unstable province. Therefore, they say that the Slovenian nation has never been in as much danger as it is at the time of the present final independence, so are they being maimed; and the less talent they have, the louder they do it. Since many of this is quite true, it is good to say so sometimes. But, ladies and gentlemen, self-importantness and complacency are a dangerous and most often unconscionable situation that blurs out the view and unrestrainedly pushes away everything else. I repeat, 189 million and 500 thousand in 2020, 173 million in 2019. Faces are brutal, let's make a picture for each other. So, Madam Vice-President, I am now moving on to what seems particularly important to me to stress and relate to the relationship between public debt and gross domestic product, as I think it is a psychological economic phenomenon which this National Assembly is particularly concerned with. This is huge propaganda and, in particular, this strongly promoted growth in public debt in relation to gross domestic product is actually in the domain of financial alchemy. This could also be called the triumph of methodology over reason. Debts are returned with money, not with a percentage of the illusion called gross domestic product. We are in a situation today and Slovenia has its market mechanism, it works in market capitalism, when this low-interest market mechanism is deformed, and the economy and citizens are resorting as a drug addict to this unsustainable interest environment. Interest income has fallen dramatically and the financial sector has been re-stimulated to enter a new cycle of irresponsible gambling in search of additional profits. The central banks have thus become talcs of their own policy, because when interest rates are around 0, monetary policy will not have room for major interventions and their further reduction before the new crisis. While monetary policy is trying to achieve objectives that are long-standing in excess of its capacity and as the policy of budgetary spending limits continues, the infrastructure of European countries is increasingly abandoned, this is now changing. This infrastructure, including Slovenian, needs to be modernised and adapted to the technological and environmental challenges of modern times, but European countries hesitate. Why are they hesitating? The formal excuse for the absence of any investment is linked to an agreement from Maastricht whereby the public debt of the euro area countries must not exceed 60% of the gross domestic product. Fear of deficits is so great that the European Union has prescribed scientifically, however, that the ceiling of public debt should not exceed 60% of GDP. This moment, of course, has collapsed. To illustrate, however, only the German public debt achieved this significant criterion before the outbreak of the virus and the epidemic crisis. French, for example, was around 100%, American over 100%, Italian over 130% and Japanese for spectacular 238%. And amazingly, nothing terrible has happened. The financial markets have not ceased to finance these huge debts. Not only has the price of these debts been falling despite the increase in debt, but even inflation has been gone in the last ten years, it is not in sight, even though central banks would have wanted it very much. Such things are good to know when talking about the height of public debt. The debts of most European countries are now growing and are above the Maastricht limit. And that stiff insistence, especially when there is no room to increase public investment, is slowly eliminated, but not for economic reasons, but for medical reasons. Why did this happen, and why is this happening? Public investment was one of the key elements of anti-regression policy in response to the great depression of the thirties of the 20th century. At the same time, there has also been a drastic change in the country's role in the national economy. State interventionism has not only accelerated aggregate demand, but has also led to a reform of the tax system and, above all, a large increase in tax rates for the richest. Disruption of such a system began with much torment and with various excuses 30 years ago. The processes started in the Anglo-Saxon countries, have also spread to us and are now widely accepted as part of the economic doctrine. How this relationship will now prove to be in the epidemic crisis will be seen. However, it is certain that any changes in increasing public investment, and in particular in increasing the country's role in economic policy, will bring about changes. There can also be new social transformations that would jeopardize the interests of those who today decide on the fate of the world. And that's what we need to stress in this matter. When people wave here with color columns about the height of debt and the attitude towards GDP, they must be aware that they are primarily talking about whether we will have our own country in Slovenia, which will have an autonomous economic policy, or whether we will not have it. Acquiring those famous 60% as in conditional reflexes and referring to those 60%, as if it were the Bible, is, in my opinion, the greatest stupidity, the greatest economic idiotism of our time. It is therefore advisable to be modest in policy-making and to be cautious in over generalisation, even when we are talking about the budgetary rebalancing. The conclusions without the right basis, which provide doctrinal support for politics, are being repeatedly enforced. And one of those is the maastricht criteria. But there's something else we need to know. The usual wisdom is unstable. It is regularly transformed into something else, perhaps even contrary to the previous stage, although its advocates are once again very confident when they impose new legitimacy. I will personally support the budget rebalancing. But I also know something, ladies and gentlemen, that we will have to face in the very near future. We will have to face the dilemma of how to start paying off such a high public debt, with what combination of measures. It is only that we have to decide how many percent we will use to reduce public expenditure and how many percent we will use to increase tax revenue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Han has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u140	Don't mind, I'll say. Robert's having a hard time replicating, though. The analysis he has made and the view is absolutely true, but when we talk about independent economic policy, we must be aware, however, that independent economic policy also stands on numbers. I'm sorry. Whether we're talking about Maastricht or not talking about different rules, the facts are gross. The fact is, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, that this debt will require significantly more money next year to service public debt. Is that right? In order to make a substantial amount of money available for the pension fund due to the laws we have adopted in this House. Not to say that there will have to be significantly more money for the cashier's office of employment. And then we're in fact brutal. It'll be gone somewhere. And perhaps this is our warning that a matter may have to be targeted differently. But I absolutely agree, Robert, with you, that if we thought of A yesterday, today could be situation B. I agree. But the fact is, servicing public debt, pension bills will take a lot of effort to finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Joseph Lenart. But get ready for Mr. Rudy Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u142	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Nice greetings to guests, honored all present, colleagues and colleagues! The budget balance is therefore a correction of an already adopted budget forecast for 2020, which has already been adopted in this National Assembly, in this House, and the budget has been proposed by the previous Government and the rebalancing has been proposed by the new government, which has been in position since March 2020. It is now a little difficult for some in this house to accept when you make a suggestion, given that you even have a period of prosperity and, of course, then you can suggest with sovereignty, and then you go away somehow by your sovereign decision, will. There's a new boss coming in, and then it seems like he's tearing everything down, which you actually set up then, but I don't think that's true. From this point of view, I think or conclude that in some of the parliamentary groups, including the LMŠ, you are now a bit of a disappointment. But I have to say that everything is not so black and white. Prognosis for the future is not as black as it may seem at first sight. At the time of the global covida-19 pandemic, the European Commission assessed the following declines in GDP in the European Union: Slovenia decreased by 7%, Austria decreased by 7.1%, Italy decreased by around 11% and slightly higher, and Croatia was slightly less than 11%. Thus, GDP has decreased by 8.3% across the European Union, as estimated by the European Commission. I don't think it's fair and it's kind of inconceivable that in your own explanations some of you will be categorically leaving out and silence the fact that we've had an outbreak of covida-19. So it would be good to say this in the debates, because this nineteen actually had a tremendous impact on what we have on the table today, on this balance. This expert, our financial expert, the Minister of Finance, is not hiding anything, and this government is not hiding a deficit from this title. So the covida epidemic has created a 9.3% deficit relative to GDP or we have 9.3% of GDP in fact, which is 4.2 billion euros. In view of the ten billionth budget, this is indeed a great deal, but it should be borne in mind that the co-vidcrisis on our economy had somehow had the effect that it would have had on our personal account or on our personal financial situation if our house were burned down. If only we could burn down the only house we're staying in and build it and live in it. And if I take one sample Slovenian worker who has a thousand euros of net revenue, he's been building a house for ten years, putting all his income into the house. And build it, after it's built, let's say it's not insured, this house burns; and of course it has to start with a perfect zero. What's he supposed to do now? Yeah, of course, somehow he'll have to hire some loans again, somehow get these funds back to sort of get dry again, under the roof; and there's no other way he's going to get even harder to work. This rebalance is mostly a reflection and a response to the crisis and is a financial situation, a forecast that is not much more possible to change. There are therefore no surpluses at any given time. However, this government extinguishes the fire, solves the problem of what is called a suboronic financial deficit, which is reflected in this balance; and it is not a fly or a hidden purpose. I don't think it's hard to understand, but if someone's stubborn, they just don't want to understand. However, if we are realistic, this government has successfully mitigated the consequences through these measures and these costs. I find that the deficit is temporary and, as it is said, the result of exceptional circumstances. As the Minister of Finance said, they expect the revenue in the Treasury to increase and improve in the coming year. However, they already started to increase in August 2020. As it is said, they are comparable to those of August 2019. And if we had done nothing now, if there had been no such waiting-for-work measures, exemption from contributions and postponement of taxes, of course, the picture would now be different; and in the long run, the financial situation would probably be much worse than it will be. It was announced that there could now be at the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia at least 150 000 unemployed persons, now 88 000. It could happen that many of these people would remain permanently unemployed because there would be 75,000 permanent jobs. Some do, but some do not realize these problems, how bad it could be if there were no action mentioned. In order to mitigate the consequences, the Ministry of Labour's labour portfolio or item was increased by €594 million. It is logical, therefore, that these funds had to be withdrawn somewhere. Unemployment growth has been halted and, according to the month of July, 1.4% less unemployed persons were registered at the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia in August than in July. The trend is changing, the employment will increase slightly. Employment, I say, will grow slightly, and if we have solved this, we may also be able to have a brighter face, as it does not or at least shows that there will not be a large number of bankruptcys or persistently unemployed and permanently redundant workers, which would be extremely negative. This would therefore have an impact on GDP growth in the coming years and would have put themselves back on their feet for a very long time. The reasons for this rebalancing are, and the hope that we will be able to do hard work in advance, in 2021 and 2022, is also. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudy Bear now has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague, we are not disappointed in the LMŠ because this balance is happening, and nothing is breaking our world. We fully understand that the budget is a living thing. Even if this situation were not the case with the epidemic, we can be sure that the budget rebalancing would still take place. But I'm sure the numbers would be different. You know, I would very much like to share optimism with the finance minister and with the Prime Minister of the Government, from their opening act. Not so optimistic was the carelessness of these two performances that when we talk about deficits and expected debt, honey and milk flow in this country. We only call for more sobriety, more sobriety and more imagery than in this country. You just have to tell people that these numbers won't make it easy, it won't be easy, and that money, of course, won't be for everyone. Somewhere at the beginning of this crisis coved, the Prime Minister of the Government said that the money would be enough for everything. Let's just say it was, but I don't know if it's gonna be enough in the future. The government of Marjan Šarca, about which you have so bad to say, also prepared a rebalancing in 2018 with 225 million surpluses, but was not euphoric, did not paint a picture of what polished image, but was very conservative in predicting the future. Well, this rebalancing still ended up in the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has then ruled that the rebalance is not unconstitutional, but we do not now threaten with the Constitutional Court, we are very well aware of the situation in which we have all come together and where this balance should have been prepared. But it is true that the President of the Government can say some things very much. It is very attractive and very late when it says that, for the first time in history, the government can explain every euro in the budget. That's not true. He said and remained alive; but we all know that this is not true. It can't be, it can't be. And when we warned the committees about this – of course, wave your hand, this tiny opposition, and so on and so on, some liquids. But then this is the same thing that the President of the Government says he also found out the Fiscal Council, to which this government believes, this coalition is very much willing to do. It is right, it is all right, but the Fiscal Council has also found that the expenditure associated with the co-vid crisis is at a very high level in this rebalancing, that these high reserves are far from being adequately explained and that the increase in indebtedness is also under-explanatory. And so did we on the boards, because that's what those papers we got on the table show. But, well, if all of this doesn't mean much, then the same government's representative on the Finance Committee said bob. She said, however, Bob Bob, a representative of the Ministry of Finance, who said that with regard to the reservations for the co-vid crisis in the explanation, it is not clear for what purpose the money will go. The government, however, ensures that anti-Korona laws will be involved. That's what he says. Of course, some anti-Korona laws are not implemented with the expected dynamics and cannot be defined as what measures will go through how much money. A representative of the government. It is a billion and it is not possible to define which measures will go with how much money. And that is all we have warned and, of course, we continue to warn. We are not talking about how for the first time in history the government can explain every euro. As far as this rebalancing is concerned, we can only mention history in relation to 4.2- or – if we add surpluses – 4.6 billion deficits, this is historical, this is historical; and more than seven billion in debt. This is both truly historic. But that's the end of it, and that's the end of history. Regarding the generators of this deficit, the finance minister himself mentioned that the decline in personal consumption is one of the major generators of the deficit. Of course, we agree with this, and the List of Marjan Šarc has long since proposed the legalisation of universal basic income, which would, of course, significantly mitigate this. Of course, it was not accepted because it came from the opposition. Then the government can't say – we gave you a universal basic income; because we invented it. But even if we adopted it, it was not about us proposing it, but about having a positive effect on public finances; it would. Many economists have insisted on having it. Well, that didn't happen. It also mentioned the remarkable success of tourist vouchers, otherwise the public financial picture would be even worse. In part, we can agree, even though this idea has not grown on this government's lawn or on this coalition. In early April, in public and among some economists, these ideas about tourist vouchers were born. On 21 April, the economic minister made it clear that the government was not considering the introduction of any tourist vouchers. Look at him. And then she adopted it. Okay, so she adopted hers, because after all, it doesn't really matter. It is very important for you to say again and again – the government has given, the government has given; or even better – the SDS has given, this has been seen in these jumbo posters. But we don't care so much who actually made up a thing if it helps to make a better picture in this country. The irony of these tourist vouchers, as far as I am concerned, is the same; in the spring of the first wave of the epidemic, we had our congregations closed. For the record, I was one of those who welcomed this measure. I greeted him. At the time, I thought this measure would make sense to me. Then this action was gone because we no longer have epidemics, but now we have another wave, but not an epidemic, but cases, more than a hundred every day, but still cases. And now, in this situation, we are forcing people to travel through Slovenia with these vouchers and to go to tourist centers and transport this virus even more from place to place. We're literally forcing them. Why are we forcing them? Because it's not a good proposal from the opposition again. This has also been formalized by the Social Democrats to extend the validity of these vouchers, for God's sake. Yeah, totally normal. Right now, there's no way that people are going to travel here and there across the country. Besides, you don't have much fun going on in a situation like this. And for that reason, of course, it would make sense to extend the validity of these shepherds for a period of time, when it would be more normal for people to travel here and there. But no, not again, because this is again proposed by this devilish opposition; and the economic minister will be around December once, well, around Christmas probably, when golf will come, but around Christmas he will decide. He'll make up his mind around Christmas. So again, some squirming with a decision that would make sense is rational; but not because it was proposed by the opposition. And so we are in the situation that the Finance Minister and the President of the Government are painting this situation as if it had been over for years, as if it had been over for years; and of course the epidemic was over. That's how we could understand that. And next year, everything like it used to be, or even better. In this epidemiological situation, of course, all great skeptics can be, that this will all be true. And we're warning you about these things. We warn against blinding people with exaggerated optimism, for they see for themselves, because they see what is really going on. And so we, the opposition, are simply warning and we are not heard, but we suggest we are rejected. Earlier, my colleague Horvath said that we should not judge the day after morning and that no amendments had been voted on by the Parliament in plenary, which is true. Which is true, but if it's known after the morning, and after all tomorrow, it's somewhere from March 13th. And in all the laws and whatever was adopted in this national council, and whatever the opposition has tried to amend so far, not to adjust, not to adjust, but to try to help better solutions. But we have only bad solutions, the government has only good solutions and then, of course, all amendments are rejected again and again. This time, the committee didn't accept any. Well, we'll see now if you really don't know him after morning; in this case. We have put in quite a few of them so that I will not repeat the content, but for those areas where we felt that I would transfer it; and that the areas that go against people are just as you try to show solutions to you. Yeah, it's who. In front of people. Well, we'll see if anything really happens in this direction. At the same time, you are constantly disappointed and angry because the opposition then does not support your solutions and even hopes to be critical of what. For a solution that we would look for together, then it is perfectly normal to expect that any of what we are proposing will also be accepted, of course, in exchange for a view as a whole, and that we will contribute to this good picture then in a way that we will also support something. But fine, I won't prejudge. As my colleague Horvath said, nothing has been decided yet, but we will see what will happen to the opposition's amendments in the following session. Of course, if we find a common language, then you can also promise a step closer, at least as far as the list of Marjan Šarc is concerned. But if everything goes back to the way it used to be, we're going to be very hard, very hard to support. Not out of resentment, or out of some re-registration, as my colleague said earlier, how difficult it is for us to lose balance, but also because we feel that with some of the receptions we are proposing, this rebalance can be further improved.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u145	Thank you very much. If I had previously promised Mrs Bah Žibert that I would be consistent, at this point I would also point out to my fellow Member that it was a very broad debate, in my opinion too wide. We have heard proposals for the renewal of the vouchers and so on. Once again, I appeal to all of us to focus primarily on the balance of the budget, which is now on the agenda. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would actually answer some of the questions or some of the dilemmas to Mr Rudi Medved. In drafting the laws from the PKP1 to the PKP4, as I know, for at least one proposal made by the opposition, I know that it has been adopted, so in principle I have no problem with the authorship of a good proposal and I see no reason here to share any proposals given to you and ours. This is mainly about certain concepts and the fact that we actually have some financial framework. For example, with regard to the proposal on universal core income that you proposed to increase consumption; we have examined it carefully. And this proposal brings, or means, a budget deficit of 528 million, and then we have also calculated this now I have these calculations, assuming that the value added tax would increase by 35 million. And this ratio between this deficit, as far as that would mean for a three-month universal base income, you can think of it – 100 euros times two million times three is six million. If we have taken into account some consumption and the average value added tax rate, I mean weighted, where we calculate how much on average goods and services are taxed at a lower rate than at the base rate, then we get some stocked average rate, that would actually mean that. And from this point of view, the issue; on the one hand, the benefits of increasing consumption, as you say, would actually mean maximum, and on the other hand an additional deficit. From this point of view, we have given a negative opinion, or the coalition has not defined itself, but the government has calculated it, in other words – today we would have a half billion more deficit, but now I have it in mind, here I have 528 million. Don't think that we don't appreciate these proposals and that we don't study them either. The second question I would like to answer is about this reserve. We live in risky times. And we said we'd use this reserve to mitigate the effects of the covidus. But understand us that we cannot write how much money will go into tests, how much money will go into hospital beds, how much money will go into medicine, how much money will go into other equipment, how much money will go into some measures that will help the economy, for example, to carriers or someone else who may, maybe not, I wouldn't prejudge anything here, included in future legislation. From this point of view, you understand; however, we will give all the information for what purposes anything will be used and for what purposes this money will go. But today we can't just tell you how this virus is going to develop. We don't know if of these 88 people who have been infected today, the trend is going to go down now or if the trend is going to go up. No one in this country can say that, at least I don't know him, a hundred percent. And there's a risk. And because of this risk, we simply need a backup. When I first met the government, I don't blame anyone, however, when we looked at the reserves, what they were, it was somewhere in mid-March, they were sticks. And we had to take measures, financial measures to centralise money and then we could use it to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic. If we did not do so, the situation today would be much worse – in the health field, in the social field, especially in the health field. Above all, I fear that more people will also get sick and that more people will have the consequences of covido. And we just have to do it at those risks. But we can't figure out how many beds we're going to use for this. We can say about it, but then you'll say - because you didn't buy drugs, you bought beds, you bought equipment, you didn't buy what it is. And we don't know, we don't know which way this virus is going to develop. As a result, this reserve is that we will finance everything that is associated with the covidus by alleviating the consequences of preventing covid. If we have the vaccine, we'll probably give a lot of money for the vaccine to get as many people vaccinated as possible to get as many people protected, that's why. Not because we don't want to, or we don't want to, or we don't want to. And this is the specificity of this budget, because this budget is made in certain special situations, I did not mean to say extraordinary situations when we are threatened by an epidemic or a virus, very simply said. That's basically the answer to that reserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Bear's got a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I completely understand, Minister, and it was not my intention to point out that you should take any medicine box or every bed, I understand this reserve and the situation. If you have listened from the beginning, in fact, I wanted to draw attention to some populism approach by the Prime Minister, who here declares, historically that for the first time in history the government can explain every euro and every euro where it goes. And, of course, he can't, because I also said that in the debate, of course he can't do that right now, because we fully understand this situation of covid crisis and the reserve for which it is intended. It will be shown below whether this reserve is too high or too low; but it is also difficult to judge at this point. So it wasn't the controversy or the criticism that was aimed so much at this reserve as at this proclamation of how something unforgettable this government is actually doing, what we've heard at the beginning. That was the point.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u150	I would only add to yours that we can explain back every euro where it went. We can explain back, I said 30. 6. We must report back each month, and we will also report to the National Assembly for each euro, how it has been spent and what it has been spent on from this reserve. But it's hard to keep going.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I ask now whether there is still interest in the debate. I can see that. Please sign in. We've got five reported discussers. The first one gets Mrs Violeta Tomić's word. Get Mr. Gregor Perič ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Hello, Minister, and all your colleagues and colleagues present! I think we can all agree on one thing, and that's that every time we get a budget on the table, ideologies, comes into numbers. This is reflected in the priorities of this budget and, in the view of the Left, these priorities are, of course, wrong. If I touch the opening address of the President of the Government, who in some way boasted that they finally stopped, that you finally broke the golden fiscal rule, immediately my memory kind of rolled back when in the previous mandate in Levica we strongly opposed the fiscal rule and how you applauded – even more so when you applauded the most catastrophic decisions – and then you applauded. It was the SDS party that cheered the most on how gold must be a fiscal rule and how we must no longer spend what we have earned, and so on. Well, how appropriate it is now that we have this so-called exceptional situation where everything can be justified, including an extremely high deficit. I wonder how you would react in these crisis situations, I will say, exceptional situations if there were any other government at the moment. I think we'd jump and be very loud. We're not. We make constructive proposals, including well-intentioned proposals, to make this budget look more fair; but somehow we always run into a wall. It surprises me that the representatives of this government simply cannot bear either the well-intentioned criticism or the proposal. We even hear – Gee, we're so good, and you're suffering. We are not suffering anything, we want to cooperate, because the work of the opposition is to look, under one, at what the coalition is doing, and, under two, to help us live better in this country. It's not our primary task to throw pollen, because that's not our way. If you think this is the only way, then you're wrong. We've already proposed a whole bunch of amendments for anti-korona packages that would prevent a lot of things, and here you've given quite a lot of resources, say employers, without any kind of protector, what's going to happen then. And when we proposed an amendment in Levica, for example, that as long as the employer receives a subsidy to keep his job, you should not forgive the employee, you were not at all interested. But now I wonder if you know what really happens to the money that you have given to certain employers; and what really happens to employees. In the case of subsidies to employers, funds are also being increased for financial social assistance and, as a result, for the unemployed. And these changes, the measures are not proof of some social sense of the Janša government that is supposed to serve to preserve jobs, but that the number of poor and unemployed has increased to the point that expenditure on unemployment and social assistance has had to be increased by EUR 115 million. We're talking about this sort of thing, and we've warned you about it a little bit ago. Minister, you mentioned, in a way, you almost boasted about one measure that I would really read to you; and you can see the attitude of this government to the social plight of the most vulnerable. This is a shameful austerity measure, saving 15 million euros at lunches and lunches for children from poor families. There was no school, but now we're in trouble, and you think it makes sense, pal, so you're sneezing. Since we have faltered, we have proposed an amendment that this money should, however, be given to children, because children are not to blame for the crown, they are not to blame for being poor, and they are not to blame for being hungry. Of course, your MEP, Romana Tomc, claims that this is some kind of theater, speaking of poor children, and that they are not in Slovenia, but they exist. I think this would be the priority of every government, every budget, that no children in Slovenia are hungry. I don't know what planet he lives on. We've got malnourished health care and we're talking about shortening waiting species. And let me tell you, not only are waiting species long, but health care doesn't accept at all, because of the crown it's all blocked and people really don't get health care and die for diseases like cancer, cardiovascular disease and so on. I know firsthand, believe me, stories are terrible and tragic. In short, it is inappropriate for the government to address the social and health problems of the elderly and other vulnerable groups, who urgently need permanent assistance in carrying out basic daily tasks. The Long-Term Supply Act, which you have not aligned with either coalition parties or ministries, you have written. I have a feeling that there is more of a pear move than anything that actually helps, because, as we know, on the other hand, they don't want to finance this solution either by contributions, because they are opposed by employers or by budgetary resources. And then you'd rather use it to buy weapons. And that's how they take care of this hot bone, who's gonna take care of these old people, who's gonna pay for it, and so on. Unfortunately, the profits of domestic employers and foreign arms corporations will again take precedence over about 12 thousand elderly people waiting for home and waiting for care. It creates the impression that the problem of long - term care is being solved, but we have not actually seen any movement. Okay. For this year's long-term care development programme, the government is reducing from 51 million to 33 million. I'm going to culture now. I've heard before that culture has to adapt. How can culture adapt? Why don't they start playing at home? Set up a set? You know, performances, concerts need an audience. And if we have, if you have introduced the vouchers for tourism, we could take any step further for the cultural community. We heard the President of the Government earlier, who said – and because they got it, they got this monthly basic income. It's not that you survive physically, even though you don't survive it, if you have to pay the rent and the cost, God doesn't give any more credit. It's about creativity and it's about an economic industry that's the most damaged at the time of the crown. And at the very least, I understand the extreme right government in neglecting protection and rescue, it is said that voluntary firefighters, who are indeed in rural areas guaranteed some hundred years of solidarity and association and are actually pillars of some assistance where we need it most. Unlike these 780 million, which, let me stress, are not about equipment and the salaries of our army, but about armored men. And let me remind you that Patricia never drove. Never, standing there like a piece of old iron. And now we're going into this new one, I'd say, an affair. And we have respirators who have never driven before, and as far as I know, they're ineffective. God forbid, I would never want to get a cod and be subjected to these acquisitions of yours, which you boast about saving lives. Instead of helping the cultural sector as well as the economic sector, the government is somehow more systematically attacking and destroying them. It must be said that culture, and we must be aware of it, is neither left nor right. The culturers were always critical, always standing on stage on Prešeren's day, a holiday of culture, and they were squirming and just telling each government what they were doing. That's no reason to punish them for that. I'm not always happy with national treatment, either, but that's no reason to destroy it. In order to discipline disobedient editors and journalists and, of course, to channel funds from the public sphere to commercially, all other cultural programme operators were also struck. By the time of the epidemic, the Ministry of Culture had voluntarily frozen funds for books and films. By putting an end to the envisaged public calls and calls for all the pending calls, the government simply cut funds for Slovenian bookmaking and film production; at a time when these activities have already suffered as a result of the crisis, because you have given instructions that there should be no cultural events. They weren't obsessed at home with laziness. And now it's more than an eight million cut and it's a reduction of resources for culture in this budget balance. In short, funds for art programmes, publishing, cultural heritage protection, library and archiving activities are being cut short and so on. It is interesting that in all these years you have somehow created discourse with such propaganda against culture and culturers – thank God that one government came to stop them, these lazy people who just want something. And you know that, for example, the meeting industry employs about 10,000 people. What should they do now, adapt? Shall they go and mow down the grass? We're gonna run out of weed. These are people who are trained to put on uniforms, sound, performances and so on. Congressman is 3.3. This means that Slovenian tourism loses €891 million annually due to the neglect of this sector. Right, over the finger, recalculated. So these measures are harmful. It is not that the culture of the hole – you have taken it away from us, but we would sit at home and live; no, but one economic sector you have taken away from the possibility of living, surviving and working, because work, the right to work is a constitutional right. It is clear that the current ruling coalition, or perhaps the government does not like criticism. We've noticed how savage they react to criticism. The Minister of Culture always leaves insulted every time I tell him that something doesn't count in the cultural field, and he's not even ready to listen. But even the rulers, the greatest rulers, the dictators, who cut their heads for any criticism, had always the narrowest court jester. The court jester could always make fun of the king, and the king paid him well for it, eating from his table, a court jester. Today, this authority does not tolerate satire, not culture, not criticism. For example, why does this government keep making laws? Now we have again the Audiovisual Media Services Act on the table, even though we asked to stop this. Why? Because Arena Sport will be carrying sports events and 40% of Slovenians won't be able to watch them because it doesn't have this package. But the arena sport is connected to who? With a friend from Mr Janša – Alexander Vukic. Just for an illustration of where this attack is going on. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u153	Mrs. Tomić, let's stick to the subject of budget rebalancing, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u154	Okay. But that's all, you know, the balance. And I will present to you the amendments for culture, which are: media and audiovisual culture. First, we are going to the Awards and Social Rights in the area of culture, for 500 000 euros, which is essentially change, against all other expenses. With regard to the budget line, in particular with regard to the need to provide funds for self-employed people in culture and NGOs who have been severely affected by the covida-19 epidemic, we believe that the resources planned by the Ministry of Culture to cover this area of social security do not meet the actual crisis needs and do not allow for additional self-employment in culture at all. In the absence of these funds, I assume that the Minister has voluntarily decided not to pay any contributions, since we now have about 50 outstanding cases, even though the Commission has granted these artists status. You know, it's very embarrassing to get to a doctor and find out you're not insured. If we had at least a notice of that, we would probably have gone between the unemployed or the institution and at least had insurance. This is the attitude of this government towards culture and culture, which is what I am talking about. This support is existential for them because it enables them to exist, function and develop. And since we are in a period of crisis that we are still talking about, then these crisis measures must also be known in the case of self-employed people in culture, because they are the most vulnerable or penalised form of employment. We provide funding for cultural awards and social rights by redistributing these 500 000 euros from the Sub-programme of the Special Budget Reserve to finance measures to address the consequences of the epidemic, amounting to 1.6 billion. Why? In view of the fact that the proposal for the 2020 budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia with the fiscal rule is – and has already been discussed by Members before me – the Fiscal Council has pointed out that the planned increase in reserves in the budget documents is unclear and, in view of the implementation so far, is also excessive. And we think that this money will be much more useful if it goes to the item that we have proposed, it is called the Prize and Social Rights in the field of culture. I will quote the Fiscal Council: "In view of the realisation so far, the expenditure in the proposal for a rebalancing, both those related to covid-19 and those not included, is forecast at a very high level. In particular, relatively large reserves are not sufficiently explained during the expenditure.” I'm going to the next amendment, and this is the media and audiovisual culture. Indeed, the rebalancing is estimated at EUR 537 000 526. Slovenia is in fact dependent on budgetary resources to finance film production due to the smallness of the film market. Otherwise, the film always provides co-production funds abroad. Always. The share we contribute here is small. But how much does he come back, and believe me, it's a lot. Where it is recorded, there is an economic initiative, farmers are satisfied, accommodations and so on. It's an investment. The co-vid situation has further exacerbated the film situation, despite the fact that the Parliamentary Committee on Culture is already at its 3rd emergency session. 11. 2018 unanimously adopted the decision, including Members who are currently members of the coalition, to vote in favour of the decision calling on the Ministry of Culture to ensure an increase of €11 million annually for film and video production by 2022. This is in line with the National Programme for Culture 2014-2017, which envisioned 11 million annually for quality and diverse film and audiovisual production. We know well that we need to digitise the films, that most Slovenian films are still on tape and that these videos are disappearing, irreversible and disappear forever. The film tape fades and we lose movies that are in our archives. Let me also point out that there are additional resources for this, in our view, in the IGRT programme, where educational activities are being carried out to promote the internationalisation of the economy and foreign direct investment. For NTI, it is mainly the establishment of new companies by foreign persons, the acquisition or expansion of Slovenian companies by foreign companies. The privatisation of the state-owned enterprise to foreigners is also recorded as NTI. An analysis of eight Member States – candidates for membership in the European Union – has been published in the Economic Movements, which has shown that each increase in foreign investment in GDP by a percentage point in economic growth in these countries is reduced by an average of 0.28%. Therefore, this programme implements harmful practices. Let's give some of this money to movies, because, as I said, the videos disappear and the cultural heritage disappears irreparably, which I think should be in everyone's interest – coalition, opposition and all Members. Because we are here to work for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Dear Member Violeta Tomić, I have two things to explain to you here. First, I quote, you said, "we have abolished the golden fiscal rule." That's not true. That's just not true. Otherwise, you later explained this in a different vocabulary, but the golden fiscal rule is still in force, but that rule does not apply, which stipulates that expenditure must be equal to income due to these exceptional circumstances. And secondly, when you were talking about lunches, you were talking about how this government and this minister were supposed to go to school for lunch. We didn't do anything at school lunches, and I didn't say it either, and I don't use such a foreigner anyway. That's why I think that's a pretty misleading explanation. And I said that schools were closed, so school meals were simply not available during this period and the budget reflects the reality, reality and reality. And there were not many expenses in the area of culture, I mentioned it probably eight times or nine times. It just didn't happen. The budget has to reflect reality. We can't make it up if there's nothing wrong. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tomic has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u158	Thank you. Yes, Your Honor, I agree. The budget reflects reality. Children were not in school and the government has saved 15 million euros in budget. However, in Levica we proposed an amendment to allow these children food, however, at a time when they had to go home to school. Many did not even have a computer to be equal. The difference between poor schoolchildren and rich people was further deepened in the time of the covida. To at least have the possibility of either a warm meal or a cash refund for this meal during school absence, for for many poor children, this is the only warm meal of the day. And that's what we suggested. That's all I wanted to say to you and remind you that this was the amendment of the Left, which was unfortunately rejected by the coalition; for the bee 15 million, which can be large or small, depending on how we view things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr. Gregor Perič has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Vice President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I will start by stating one tweet, namely, I will read the first sentence: Until today we do not know how the purchases of protective equipment took place. And then follow on and on. This was posted at 17.09 on the Twitter account of LMŠ. We're talking about rebalancing here, so I'd like to ask that if the rules are in place, then we should be strictly applicable to everyone in here; we're hearing about some court jesters, almost some fairy tales and the like. I don't know if the point is that we're restricting the debate to someone else, but we're letting others discuss it very widely, even if our colleagues have done it before and then they're making such a different pianist story. But if I go back to the budget, which is the subject of debate today, which is the point of the budget, I have to say that it drew a smile on my face when a colleague from the Left said they wanted to cooperate. These opportunities of the Left to participate in the government, in my opinion, were at least three, of which two were very serious; unfortunately or fortunately, because I do not know, they were not exploited. Whoever really wants to work together not only cooperates with a number of ideas and suggestions, but is ready for these many, also good ideas and proposals, to take the lead in taking responsibility. But here's where the real game begins, and here the devil takes the joke, so I believe that we are primarily sharing in this divide between those who hope, and those who are advocates of some safer shelter, regardless of the situation, whether it's more favourable or not. I still haven't forgotten those long night meetings when we were taking the PKP-actions, but I don't know if those debates were very substantive and we were dealing with this; but we were probably doing something else when we were all in an extremely unpleasant situation and the government representatives would need that rest to take measures, but not to listen to different, I apologize, but they were nothing more than stupid. The situation that has led us to accept the balance in such acute situations is, in particular, the one affected by the covid. We all know that. As a result of blocking or stopping the economy, the collected excise duty, VAT collected, corporate income tax collected, and income collected decreased. For these reasons, it is normal to make a difference, and this is also intended for this mechanism of rebalancing, i.e. some balance of income and expenditure. Here we find that there are some differences, of course, and they will probably be for a while, until we get out of this situation again. The fact is that no country in Europe and also globally is in an ideal situation. There are some countries that have less influence or are better able to isolate themselves, especially some islands. Slovenia, however, is, we know, in an area where transit is very large; and this normally, along with travel, has many consequences. The fact is that we cannot stop the world, we cannot stop the economy, we cannot stop the educational processes and many other areas of our society, but we can do something else – to take into account preventive measures that are simple, that is, social distances, masking and vaccination, and the application. I find and see that many in here have great problems with this. Why am I saying this in the context of the rebalancing? Because all of this affects how our country will go, how our public finances will go and how our economy will go. The more we stick to it, the less trouble we'll have, the more resources will be available, and we'll think more about what we need to do. On the one hand, the public financial situation in which we are and why we are also adopting this budget has been defined by the pandemic itself and, on the other hand, by the measures taken or proposed by the Government and then adopted by the National Assembly. All this time, I have followed such and other proposals very closely, but I have also been paying attention to the opposition's proposals. They were all well-intentioned, and this must be acknowledged, but in many cases they were also very public-funded. That is why I do not understand all of these perceptions of the last days and weeks, that is, all the time that we are adopting on the committees and even now the plenary balance, how this deficit has suddenly become a problem or is very large or extremely large, I do not know what adjectives have all been used. If the government had accepted all those proposals that the opposition had also proposed in good faith, this deficit would not be 4.2 billion, but probably 5.2 billion, or probably 6 billion. To say at this point that this deficit is what it is and, on the other hand, to propose measures that would further burden the state budget is, of course, quite double. I have also heard the opposition's proposals that in some way we should take into account some compensatory measures in the design of these measures, so where we will all get these funds back. However, I have listened carefully to all the measures or additional proposals that the government has not adopted coming from the opposition, and I have not seen these compensatory measures. Maybe one of my colleagues is going to fix me, but these measures, how do we get these funds back or pay those debts, they weren't. That is why it seems right for us to talk within certain frameworks and not only to try to be liked by people with some suggestions; but also to be responsible, and this is true for everyone, including the opposition. Therefore, I find it difficult to accept the proposals that have been made, such as the universal core income, which were three times 200 million, and then the proposals that were, say, linked to tourist vouchers, which, as we know, we have adopted at a certain level, were a proposal to be even higher. The set of these measures is already three times 200; plus so far 100 million has been spent on vouchers, that is another 100, we are at 700 million euros. And our deficit would be only with these two measures instead of 4.2 billion almost 5 billion. In this sense, let us be responsible, but after the debates I have heard, this is just one of my wishes. I expect the government to make every effort and to be as rational as possible in terms of spending resources; and, above all, to focus its view on how we will be able to pay for these funds. This will certainly not happen tomorrow, and the fact is that it will be easier to do this if economic growth is higher than economic growth earlier, and we will be able to achieve this more easily. But if there is some fundamental cooperation here without stumbling on either side, then this path will be much easier and shorter, and in particular it will be easier for our citizens and citizens to do so. I will support this proposal for a rebalancing, as I say, and I expect all those responsible to do their utmost and to act responsibly, because we are now adopting a rebalancing, we will shortly adopt a new budget. The challenges we face are very great. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The replica has Violet Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u162	Thank you, Chairman. My friend Perič spent quite a bit of his discussion on dealing with Levica. We've had three chances of taking responsibility. I don't remember those three. I see he knows more than we do. Keep telling this mantra – take responsibility. Who, please, is in this national assembly, which government has accepted responsibility?Oh, my God! Responsibility. Not to mention your client, who had 36 Members, what responsibility she has taken and what actions she has taken with anti-economy policy, ethics, morality; you've overrun everything. Where's the responsibility? The only responsibility is in the elections, which is shown to you by the current number. Who was responsible for the Slovenian state forests where wood was stolen? For 20 million bincomes. I'm interested in who answered. Who was responsible for purchasing anti-Korona masks and stuff? Who was in charge of wild privatisation? Who is responsible for Prekmurje speaking Hungarian? Who's in charge of anything, Comrade Perich? When politics is able to take responsibility for its decisions, the Left will be in the government and not before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomic, that wasn't a replica. This was a debate after the debate. I'm warning you, stick to the replica. My friend Periè didn't get you anywhere wrong. My friend Pericz, would you like some? Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I would only briefly replicate to my colleague Tomić that the process of forming a government is very clearly defined in the Constitution and in our Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u165	Thank you. Nor was this a procedural proposal. In the future, I would like to point out that you are in line with Rules 69 and 70 of the Rules of Procedure. The next one has the word mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Chairman. Indeed, the debate is quite varied, such as the rapid challenges ahead of the budget's rebalancing. Colleague Polnar began his discussion nicely when he said that the proposed budget rebalancing defined two figures – 9 billion revenue, about 13.4 billion expenditure and a deficit of 4.2 billion euros. In fact, I must agree that this covida-19 epidemic has been very much involved in our lives, and in fact it is right that the government is helping people and the economy, because it is its duty. I, of course, lead to this budget and no one in my group is critical. However, certain questions are raised as to what are the priorities of the government, which are those measures that must or must be implemented by the government. And even in the opposition, we had certain views, certain wishes, certain improvements. And I'm kind of noticing that none of our proposals have been taken into account. All have been rejected, at least from our Group of Members, I can say that none of our proposals have been in a financial sense to somehow destroy the structure of this budget. We've put some amendments to the budget's rebalancing. Remember – program Older for the elderly. I'm talking about a few hundred thousand euros. It is a very important program when older people help older fellow citizens, i.e. people over 69 years of age. For us, this proposal seems very meaningful and important because it is measures which have a particular weight in these circumstances. A lot of people can't go to the store, a lot of people are afraid to go out. In fact, we very much regret that this proposal did not receive support on the labour market. The other thing that seems very important to us is, of course, masks. We have proposed that masks be provided to schooling children — primary schoolchildren, secondary schoolchildren — and pensioners. We know that they have been prescribed by the government as mandatory, and we believe that if something is prescribed that it must be worn, then the state must also ensure it. Thirdly, however, the special matter that we will deal with tomorrow seems important to us to address the problems of unavailability of health services. We know that the entire health system has been subordinated to the rescue of covid and that in fact other parts of the health care system have not worked and waiting species have been extended. As an additional challenge, we are asked about the provision of funds for unforeseen costs that may be linked to the covida epidemic. I would also like to touch here on the statements made by the Minister and also by the President of the Government, who claim that each euro is known for its consumption. Here I would like to make it clear that we receive reports late from the Commission on Public Finance Monitoring in strange timeframes and that in fact this control is being very difficult. In the SAB Group, we have proposed, once again, the establishment of a specific co-module of the budget line and the establishment of an independent parliamentary oversight that would watch over the use of funds in real time. Today there is no such control, even though the same recommendations have been issued by the European Commission. I'm afraid, I'm afraid that after the end of this epidemic -- I want this ending to be before us as soon as possible -- we're going to talk about irregularities again, we're going to wonder where the money went, we might end up with some kind of commission of inquiry, but we know that there are no smart conclusions from these investigative commissions that are looking for political responsibility. However, I would like to make it very clear here that political responsibility is on all those Members who have not supported this proposal. There's a clear political responsibility here. Unrational, opaque or perhaps other forms of spending, I will suggest, and the use of this public money, which is not in accordance with the law, is a matter of other prosecutions. If we are looking for political responsibility, why funds are not spent rationally and transparently, it is the responsibility of the National Assembly, which has not supported the SAB Group proposal. I also agree with my colleague Peric, who said that it is very important how we will get out of this crisis and how these resources, which he is now ruling on our behalf, for which he is also responsible, will create a higher added value in the near future. We will have to pay this debt once and for all, and it is also the responsibility of the government to indicate and illustrate how we can repay this debt. If the same level of debt is followed next year, that means about 8 billion in two years. And if only one percent interest rate on this loan means that without paying off the principal, 80 million euro is an additional annual cost of interest. However, if payment of the principal can be added, but it can also be 200 million or 300 million, God forbid that the interest rate rises from 1% to 2%, as the costs increase from 80 million to 160. These are the challenges we need to find answers to. However, I would like to make it clear here that, despite the fact that we have to commit ourselves, because otherwise the system would not work, people would not have pensions, they would not have access to health care, we are not as critical of this obligation as colleagues in the SDS in 2013. Here is one graph; in 2013, when the government was led by Mrs Alenka Bratušek, the debt per capita was about 13 000 euros and then followed by economic growth, up to the present crisis. And today's debt is almost 82.5% and is essentially almost €40 billion in public debt. These are challenges that will need to be addressed in some way as part of increasing expenditure on pensions, increasing expenditure on health services, as well as the consequences of population ageing, as well as the challenges of long-term care. And I also wonder if the previous SDS colleagues' initiatives to lower taxes were also very loud colleagues from New Slovenia, that taxes were substantially reduced, were serious and purposeful. Again, many challenges lie ahead. In the light of this budget rebalancing, we also wanted to address these challenges further. I will repeat this once again, we have proposed that the Elderly for Older Persons Programme be allocated additional funds. We have proposed to provide masks for primary schoolchildren, pupils and pensioners; we have proposed to ZIPRS additional means to reduce waiting lines, which we think is very important. That we are not an unconstructive opposition, and we make it clear. We consider certain measures taken by the Government to be very good and effective. Here we recall these vouchers, the vouchers which we citizens have already used in full, some of them; as we have also supported that additional solidarity funds have been provided to pensioners. We have also proposed the establishment of an infrastructure fund if it were established, it could already start to raise funds and perhaps require a slightly lower rebalancing process today. Remember when the government started working, it froze the implementation of infrastructure projects or froze the budget of the Ministry of Infrastructure for the needs of an epidemic of covid. We believe that this is, in fact, one lesson, that it is right that at least the Ministry implementing these infrastructure measures be provided with one predictable source of funding for the projects needed to continue economic growth. As has already been said, our amendments or proposals have not been taken into account, even though they are not such proposals, so they are not marginally valued in a way that would somehow undermine the structure of this budget. And because of this, we in the SAB Group will not support the balance of this budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Sonibo Prince has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u168	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the beginning, Minister, I would like to express my gratitude to you for being one of the few ministers, which is not a practice in this government that you are regularly present. And even if I remember back, the adoption of PKPs 1, 2, 3, 4 – long-term discussions, you were here. You also answer the questions correctly, professionally, even if you were alone in your role, I don't know if you could sometimes hold back on incorrect observations that are also present. Thank you, even if I compare you to the Minister of Culture, a disaster, so you won't say we're just criticizing, even a little commendation. We are listening to this subject today, the great majority, the tenth, the eleventh hour, probably on about 40, 50 hours of the basis of what we have already put through on the committees. I fully agree with the content of the rebalancing or the explanation, because we are in an emergency, the measures were necessary if I fail to consider that one part of the electoral campaign, either the SDS or the other ruling coalitions, has also been involved in these anti-krona measures, by sharing some assistance with structures that have not been affected by the Coronavirus. But okay, you can do that, too, you're in this position, but in the final stage, what you're warning us is that people got something. I still did not intend to report to the debate today when I have been listening for ten hours to these enthusiastic Members, especially the coalitions, as they are convincing the Slovenian public, because today this is more than a performance for the media, what you are to it, are to it and what else they will provide for it this year. It's really amazing. The Devil’s little or very rare are those who would mention that we do all this with money that we don’t actually have to pay record debt. I miss even the comments of the biggest government party, if I am not deceived by memory, have always been full of comparing record deficits when Borut Pahor led the government during the 2008 crisis; no one mentions that the current manca is more than twice as high as it was then. Nor does anyone mention that the expected decline in GDP is likely to be more than twice as costly. The only one I thought today was quite correct and also responsible to discuss this subject, which also drew attention to the servicing of public debt, was the Coalition Member of colleague Polnar. What I wanted was for the public to know if I gave a comparison when you went to the bank for a loan or a limit, of course, it also felt good when it was approved; your head started to ache after you had to pay it back. I think the next composition of the National Assembly is going to give us a hell of a headache. Once again, I'll finish, thank you, Minister. I only hope that the very optimistic forecasts of the Prime Minister at the beginning of this point of economic growth in the following year will also be partially realized. I'll finish it slowly. I only hope that we will not be impressed by this enthusiasm that I am listening to today, and I will probably listen to it from this coalition, and I believe that a balance will be adopted, and there will also be military aircraft flying tomorrow when we receive it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Last in this round, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u170	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. It is true, there is a long debate and much has already been said by the opposition, of course mainly criticism, because it is in some ways understandable. On the other hand, given the situation we are in, and not only Slovenia, but the whole world, however, could all be more objective, realistic and even look at things from a different perspective. It is certainly different to draw up a budget and a budget balance in some exceptional situations. And with such an exceptional situation as today or since the outbreak, Slovenia has not yet faced, nor has another country, at least in these last decades. And the fact is that it is also appropriate to react. That's why I'm gonna go a little bit from the start. If you have also listened well to the President of the Government, he has made it clear that the deficit is high, but it is also clear that it is in accordance with the Golden Fiscal Rule and is both in accordance with the law and the Constitution. It has never been said on our part that there is no deficit, but we need to be aware of why this deficit has occurred. And if you're counting all the numbers, all the items where this money went, then it's really irresponsible that you're talking about some numbers today that are record-breaking. Of course, they are record-breaking, how could they not be, because the situation is as it is. And on the one hand, you're hard to understand. There have been measures, you have spoken at the time of the adoption of the measures – even more, this needs to be added, it needs to be added; today, when there is a deficit, you say that the deficit is high. You're hard to understand, except from the point of view, it's populism. On the one hand, you wanted to add measures, on the other hand, now that the numbers are on the table, you don't like it again. You know, the deficits have already been made in history. However, we need to know where the money was meant for at the time. We've fixed private banks, other banks. I don't know what we can say today that the taxpayers really had money out of it, and that was their money; because today I heard that the budget was their money. Of course it is, but unlike then money has returned directly to him in the form of various measures. And today there has been quite a bit of talk about these measures. What would happen if there were no action? We have heard about this too today, but I have very important numbers that literally say, and most likely the situation would be even worse or the deficit would be even greater if measures were not taken. If there were no such measures, about 150 000 jobs would have been lost. Can you imagine 150,000 unemployed more? What if these people lost their jobs? We can only measure by increasing social transfers. That's one. However, there is something else behind losing a job, including a variety of medical conditions, which are very unpleasant when someone loses a job and so on. I think those amounts would be even higher. Due to the lack of this output, more than 100,000 fewer employees would be employed in the Slovenian economy, which means that on the other hand income would also be significantly lower. There wouldn't be any income either. As a result, no one wonders what that would mean for the future. We have now somehow come out of this first wave of the epidemic, but what this would mean in the long term or what it would mean for the future state and economy to be able to adapt, including for future budgets. That's what we need to talk about when we talk about the balance. Today's debates with some sounded like we were talking about the budget as if we were taking or having a budget on our hands today. This one's coming. Today we are talking about the balance and this is, of course, for the period until the end of the year. We believe that he is such that by the end of the year we will have carried out everything that awaits us. Of course, we are talking mainly about what is related to covid-19, which is said to be a virus that brings a very uncertain situation. You've also talked a lot about various amendments, some of them you've already summarized. Everything is nice and good, of course, wishes are different, and the possibility is only one. It's just a frog that's the way it is. But I don't agree that some of you are going with these amendments to literally financial cannibalism. This seems completely irresponsible to me in the budget rebalancing. It is clear exactly what we can do in three months and where the possibilities are, and when someone proposes things that would be included in the basic budget and could then be implemented from the beginning of the year, it is really irresponsible to propose now that we go into the expired part of the year. There was also a lot of talk about vouchers and some other measures, but the vouchers obviously meant a lot to citizens and citizens. That's also a number that says how much was cashed. But the fact is, these vouchers were designed primarily to keep our tourism in the tourist season. Of course, 60,000 jobs in this area and without it, there would certainly be more people who are unemployed in this area. The measure was more than welcome. Measures to help the economy were also very important, very important. We know that they have produced effects, because these companies and individuals have somehow gone through the worst time in that period. It is also true that the opposition wants much more whenever there is a debate on the budget or the balance of the budget. Everyone would want so much more. But the facts are, we are affected by the epidemic, the revenues are lower, and the expenditure was urgently needed to mitigate everything that was going on. And we did it. And of course you can hardly admit it, but we did it. We've mitigated the worst that could happen. And it is true, of course, that any such measure also requires certain measures, which can also prove to be a mannequin and, of course, a deficit. On the left hand side today, I listened to these populist statements so that we could build more homes for the elderly and so on. I think that Levica was the party that supported the previous budget and then did not support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, where we wanted to spend more money on building new homes for the elderly. If we were to accept this in the budget, there might already be some progress in this area today, but you have not accepted such an amendment, so now it is a little funny to report to this government something that you have not done yourself. It was also said by the Left that it was a well-intentioned proposal. You know, we'll see well-intentioned when we don't confuse the other side with liars. I expect that the party Levica will take a bit of a stand and that we will be able to take their debates seriously; otherwise, in this case, their fellow Member, in every other word, is seriously unable to speak. I want serious discussions with all the parliamentary groups, but we have to get there. He also said much to his colleague Medved, but he did not say that money went to raise the average municipalities, which he failed to do as a minister. But we know that the congregations are good masters, and I believe that this money will be able to make good use of it. It usually turned out that they were much better masters than the state. I'm not going to owe it, but, once again, we're talking about the balance, we're not talking about the budget; we're talking about the end of the year, we're talking about the year that had some extraordinary situations; and we don't know how long this extraordinary situation is going to take, whether it's going to deepen or whether we're going to find a way in the world to do it. However, speaking of some amendments and advocating certain areas, it is only right that we go a little from the ceho framework, given that Violeta Tomić has devoted a very long time to culture. We can talk about each item very much and in concrete terms, but because it has already been so exposed culture and I do not accept that someone says that this government is not up to culture, but we will have to ask once again the question of what art is and where art ends. For the past four years, 90,000 euros have been given to some cultural society, an artistic society in which an artist now ate a living bat before the National Assembly. I don't know if taxpayers support that kind of art. We're going to have to talk about everything once, and we're going to have to look at the individual items very carefully, when you say it's too little, it's going too far. We need to build our own mirrors. I believe that within culture too, money will be smartly distributed and that for all those who deal with culture and with what culture is, there will be sufficient resources. I'm calling on everyone to really understand that it's a rebalancing, that it's not a budget. Some measures will be taken, and there will soon be a debate on budgets on the table, and we will certainly be able to discuss the items or some amendments that have now been tabled at the time of the budget rebalancing. We need to take this balance as an excellent one because the situation is exceptional.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see there's still interest. I'm asking you to sign up. One reported. Mr. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u172	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. I will try to be as brief as possible in view of the long debate so far, but a few things I would like to point out in this general part of the debate. First of all, I absolutely welcome this budget rebalancing. It was necessary – Slovenia, like the whole of Europe and the world, has indeed been in some serious health crisis, an emergency, and it has also brought about an economic and social crisis. From this point of view, this balance is necessary, and I also welcome the fact that more funds have been made for the social field. In view of the circumstances in which we have come into existence, this is indeed urgent. However, I would point out that the deficit is large and that the deficit is somehow understandable. I cannot, however, mention that you have always warned the opposite side, even when it was not such a big deficit that it was necessary to be sustainable, stable and so on; and you have criticized the budget that we have adopted, the former Sharča government, in some way, in the sense that it is too spent to spend too much and so on. But I'd like to point out some things that I find incomprehensible. First of all, it looks like there's a lack of transparency. Just because it's a huge deficit, a debt, we'd understand even more that it's going to be seen for every euro, where and how it's going to be spent. Somehow this is not what we see in this proposal for a rebalancing. There's a lot of stuff hidden under these cobblers and there's no telling exactly where it's going or what it's going to be. We are so much more attentive to this in the light of the developments in the acquisition of protective equipment, where, I think, it was justified, there are some concerns about the transparency of these acquisitions themselves. The second thing I would like to point out, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, is not about cannibalism with the amendment, but it seems to me that it is not good to reduce resources for science and especially investment in school and kindergarten buildings. This is because the previous government has issued a call for investments and for the renovation of school buildings, which is absolutely necessary, since there has been no State co-financing for years and years. This invitation to tender was issued last year. We know and see that many schools are in real space distress and that it would be necessary to invest some resources in the reconstruction of these schools. Some schools, specifically in Kamnik, are taught even in the parish this year because there are not enough rooms or rooms in the school itself. It was not a large asset, but for a few million, these funds were in some way abolished or the tender had already been withdrawn. And now it's easy to see in the balance that these funds are gone. The second area is, for example, the school diet. It is true that during the quarantine period the primary school did not work and that there were no meals for children in schools. But it made sense to me that these resources were spent on children, on school food. Although they did not eat lunch at the time, they had to eat and eat somewhere. We don't think it's good, and it's not right for these funds to be transferred elsewhere. The next thing, for example – incentives for employment. Just in these difficult times, when there are a lot of new unemployed people, we would expect more resources to be allocated to this area, but apparently the government does not see this need, as opposed to increasing the resources of the National Reconciliation Institute. The answer to this question, when colleague Predrag Baković asked hours ago, was not received by the minister. Why is this institute so urgently financially well-fed that additional funds must be provided in these difficult times? However, funds are being squandered to certain non-governmental or paralegal institutions. I'm afraid it's because the current authorities don't quite like it. We will say more specifically in the debate on the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? The replica has Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u174	I'm still saying it's cannibalism and so is populism. You're saying that the money that's been given to kids for school meals should be given to children in a different way. He's on his way. You know, if we care about jobs, if we care about maintaining the economy, we help parents, and parents take care of children. The fact is that this money goes to children as well; and this is the most important. But I agree with you about that.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Okay, then we have two discussers. Mr Andrej Chernigoj has the floor first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u176	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for this year's state budget rebalancing has been prepared by the government in the uncertain situation of the invisible enemy and after a sudden and very rapid halt to a large part of the economy, followed by the declaration of an epidemic that has caused a major economic deficit. Slovenia's forecasts predict a 7.6% decline in GDP. The decline and the resulting deficit is not a phenomenon that has only occurred in the Republic of Slovenia, but is a global phenomenon that plagues the vast majority of the countries of the world. The government's rapid action with the CAP package has affected the decline in budgetary revenues and has created a favourable economic climate. The current government does not run from the seriousness and weight of the budget. The revenue is planned to reach EUR 9.2 billion and expenditure to EUR 13.4 billion. The planned budget deficit for this year is thus €4.2 billion and 9.3% of gross domestic product. The fall in budget revenue and the increase in expenditure in relation to the budget adopted are due to the shock experienced by the Slovenian economy and the non-consumption in certain sectors of the economy during the epidemic of the invisible enemy and the necessary measures to protect the population and the economy. The government and New Slovenia – Christian Democrats during the crisis we did not forget about citizens and businesses. This year's budget rebalancing is the most socially oriented. We are pleased that in the incomparable crisis of the last century, we have made a great deal of money available to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and to banks, as in the previous crisis. Today's budget balance is largely due to the implementation of the CAP measures. In my opinion, the CAP measures have been successful, although we have not had the opportunity to copy them from any textbook or government plan to deal with the disadvantage we are now facing. Today's debate is very lively and, above all, often outside the budget balance framework, such as the mention of Violeta's colleague's court jesters from the Levica party. We respect and value all Members and Members, colleagues and colleagues, although they have different opinions. If I understand it correctly, Levi wants to be the government's court jester. Understand who can. Colleagues were talking about the Slovenian Army and their amendment to help firefighters. I don't agree to populist solutions that at first sight seem good. We need quality equipment and a state-level coordinated system. The search for the attention of the party Levica, who have not even worked so hard to bring the proposal in line with the Firehouse Association of Slovenia, suggests that the proposal is not realistic. More for a pianist action than anything else. I will be very pleased to support the budget's rebalancing, as it has provided an increase in the average to the municipalities, which was impossible in the previous government. This money will be the best way to elevate the congregations, helping citizens and citizens in each congregation. I would also like to mention the implementation of measures in the CAP, which have helped almost 150 000 people by replacing wages and temporarily waiting for work. We have provided almost 280 million for this in the coalition and the government. I will also support the rebalancing because the extraordinary aid in the form of monthly basic income was offered to almost 52,000 beneficiaries, amounting to €83 million. The implementation of the conclusions could continue. Only here will I stop, the exemption of the contribution to all social security, which has helped almost half a million beneficiaries and has been realized in almost 125 million. I am pleased that we have succeeded in helping citizens and citizens with the CAP legislation, so I will also support the budget rebalance with great joy. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u177	Thank you very much. There's still magic in the word. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Vice President. All I wanted to do was replicate Anja's colleague, but I didn't have a business opportunity, so I applied again. Colleague Anja, I agree with you, all measures must also help children indirectly and in a way are positive in this respect. Now, I am going to ask you, quite directly, I have highlighted two things, namely school nutrition, and an invitation to invest in school infrastructure. Do you really think that in all these billions a few million should be allocated for the purpose of improving or building, for example, some new schools? I think we could keep these funds. And we're all aware that we could. And I'm really sorry that this went out of budget. Because schools really need to rebuild spaces, because in certain cases the situation is already very critical and needs to be addressed immediately. That's all I wanted to say. But I agree with you and, in principle, I don't think it makes any sense here that we're over-polising and fighting. We all want good, but maybe we and the amendments just wanted to make some improvements; and this is not about some cannibalism at all. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Would you like a word to discuss? Take time to discuss, it will be easier not to problem the replica. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u180	If I can have a debate, I will have a debate not to be limited by time, because there is still time. I agree with you. There's so much to do. There was also a lot to be done when your minister led this department, and it went slowly. As I said, there will be a budget ahead of us and we will be able to discuss these things in concrete terms. But I am surprised that as representatives of social democracy you have so many comments, given that this budget is truly socially oriented. He's really social. And you don't want to admit it. And I'd kind of like to say it or at least in this place. I believe you have different reservations, politically, that you do not want to support this balance. But, as I say, it's all very social. At some point in this national assembly, we can talk about measures that would help so much in the social field.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Representative of the Ministry, State Secretary, Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I've already explained it twice today, and maybe I'll do it again for lunch. As the minister has said several times, because of the situation that was, the child was not at school and so did not eat meals; and therefore the money was diverted to other transfers, so social. Let me mention three of the biggest. 20.3 million Euros were spent primarily because kindergartens were closed, and it was intended to pay for the closure, namely the part that parents should pay. 5.3 million Euros were earmarked because there was no activity of students' homes and school kitchens to cover costs here. The students of higher and higher education were assigned a one-time solidarity allowance of 8.1 million, three of which are the largest and many others, who, by redistributing this money and providing another to alleviate social distress. However, as for investments in primary schools and kindergartens, I agree with you that after many years the invitation was out, we had to stop it because of the situation that we had closed up when we closed everything, because certain funds had to be redistributed into that we were mitigating, we were in control of the epidemic. 13. 3. These funds have already been diverted in some way through the Government’s decision. And as I said, in the coming years, money will be devoted to this – to local infrastructure for sports, kindergartens and primary schools.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u183	Thank you very much to Secretary of State Damir Orehovac of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Anybody else want to discuss this? I give the word "magic." Mark Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u184	Mr President, thank you for the floor. A very short comment on the debate of some members of the party Social Democrats. I am convinced that if any budget or budget rebalancing in the Republic of Slovenia is socially oriented, it is the one we will confirm tomorrow. The government of Janez Janša and the coalition were aware of the situation of the state, economy, citizens and citizens. And despite the fall of gross domestic product and crisis, she decided to help people and the economy directly through measures. And maybe unlike you, who have led governments over the last seven years, we've probably been listening to graphs shown by colleague Bandelli, what a conjunctura it was, what a high economic growth you've had. You didn't raise the average to the municipalities, even though it was a conjunctura. Moreover, you raised taxes in the conjuncture, raised value added tax, Comrade Koprivc, which is the tax that affects all people most. And now you're reading in here so we don't do social work. In no left government has such a budget been as socially oriented as it is now. And you're reading everything else to this government. Here you have a list of measures – PKP1, PKP2, PKP3, PKP4. Measures for people, not financial institutions. In a time of deep recession; on the contrary with you, when you took only these measures at a time of high conjuncture, but which would follow some social policy, as you now hang and defend on the big bell. And I am sure that the Committee on Finance and the Education Committee has already said, and today, at least three times by the Minister of Finance, why funds in the field of school meals are falling. And I don't think it's fair that you shouldn't use this number exclusively in your political interests. You had all these options. You were in the government eight months ago. You left the government alone. There was no mistrust in the National Assembly. You're on your own. And let's be correct. This budget rebalancing has consequences, as I have said several times in this debate, that these measures are a springboard, so that our revenues can increase in the future; in particular because the economy is moving forward and we have a stable health system.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word of this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The vote on the General Part of the proposal for a rebalancing will be held tomorrow, 23 September, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We're moving on to the special part of the rebalancing. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. 2020. We are moving to the budgetary user 1312 – the Court of Auditors and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the activities of the Court of Auditors and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Meira Hot, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Good evening again! Social Democrats propose that the activities of the Court of Auditors, with the amendment's proposal, should be returned to the funds that have been taken away from them in the proposal for a rebalancing, i.e. EUR 610 000. We believe that the Court of Auditors is the institution in our country that plays an extremely important role, especially in these exceptional times, when many purchases occur in certain strange ways and when their fiscal control is even more important. In fact, the scope of their work is growing steadily, and it was at the time of the epidemic that this was seen so much more. Therefore, we believe that they are not justified and legitimate to reduce their resources, but we suggest that they return to them and return for €610 000 in the Special Part of the Balance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? He doesn't want to. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to budget user 1314 – State Audit Commission and to debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Legal Protection and Control in procurement procedures and the amendment of the LMŠ, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Jože Lenart. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Chairman. Yes, with this amendment, we want to devote more resources to the functioning of the State Audit Commission, because in the Marjana Sharca List, we believe that a 14% reduction in the resources of the institution that decides in the procurement procedures for the construction of such major infrastructure projects as the second route of Divaca-Koper, the 3rd development axis and the second tunnel of the Karavanka tunnel can have major consequences for the state of public finances in the Republic of Slovenia. Ensuring legal certainty and overseeing the legality of procurement procedures that are being implemented, issuing decisions are essential contributions to the more successful functioning of the public sector. At the same time, we can find that the Government's Communications Office has not been carrying out its task in recent months, as it introduces unrest into Slovenia and the general public through its decommissioned communication; and sufficient resources will be provided for its operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to budget user 1315 – Commission to prevent corruption and debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme to eliminate and prevent corruption and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1911 – Ministry of Defence and debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Equipment and Infrastructure and the amendment of the parliamentary groups Levica, LMŠ and SD. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 1912 – the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue and the debate on the amendments tabled in this budget user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme the operation of the system for protection, rescue and assistance, as well as the amendments of the MPs LMŠ and SAB, as well as the amendments of the MPs Levica, LMŠ and SD. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. Mr. Joseph Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to discuss another amendment to this subroutine. It's 7.8 million euros. I'll explain why we oppose this amendment. By the end of the year, spending 7 million 800 000 is not easy, but I would like to stress the following. The government and coalition, as well as we, Nova Slovenija, as an integral part of the coalition, are very aware that the covida-19 epidemic has made the acquisition of its own resources more difficult, as voluntary firefighting companies have had to cancel most firemen's funks, which are one good Slovenian tradition. And, of course, other activities that provided additional funding. The Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue, which is very important back there, has no authority to monitor in detail the financial operations of the fire brigades, i.e. voluntary fire companies. It also lacks data on how many events have been organised in previous years or how many have been abandoned this year. It is even more difficult to provide a realistic assessment of how much money the firefighting companies should acquire by means of acquisitions or how much money they should be deprived of. Because now, because of my debate so far, the problem will probably be that we, Nova Slovenije, are against firefighters, and I want to continue like this. For the next year, the government plans to increase the funding for the co-financing of the activities of the Firehouse Union of Slovenia and to co-finance firefighting units of wider importance. In order to co-finance the acquisition of fire-fighting equipment and vehicles, an increase of 29 % is envisaged. 29% increase. Under the financial capacity, funding for regular co-financing will be increased by 5% in 2022 as well. In addition, in the context of the envisaged financial burden of municipalities, solutions are being prepared to enable the State to take over the financing of fire insurance, which would also significantly relieve voluntary firefighting companies. I hope we all support this. The law prepared by the previous government is not bad. It's a law on the burden of congregations. We have merely upgraded it with various elements, including co-financing of fire insurance, i.e. persons, operational and equipment. In addition, two important projects are being prepared to be financed from the recovery and development plan, namely, the project called the increase in resilience to climate-related disasters in the Republic of Slovenia, and the other project, which is called the equipping of units to increase response to climate-related disasters in the Republic of Slovenia, aimed at reducing the impact and impacts of climate-related disasters on local, regional and national levels, as well as the provision of equipment, equipment, vehicles, vehicles and assets that could be used in the event of climate-related disasters throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The projects also provide for an important update of the equipment of the units included in the protection and rescue system at local and regional level, including firefighting units. With regard to these projects, a consensus has also been reached for all key stakeholders within the system of protection, rescue and assistance and an already signed agreement with the Association of Gasilska Slovenije, Mountain Rescue Union of Slovenia, the Association of Municipalities of Slovenia, the Slovenian Diving Union, the Red Cross of Slovenia and all three associations or communities, i.e. the Community of Slovene municipalities, the Association of Slovene municipalities and the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia. So this is a remarkable project, a new concept of protection and resolution and things are already happening. Here, I hope, are enough reasons why our “no” for this amendment. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mag. Meira Hot, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. The opposition parties LMŠ, SAB, Levica and SD, of course, have tabled a proposal for the operation of the system for protection, rescue and assistance to be raised in the context of the balance of EUR 2 million. Regardless of the respectful debate of a respected colleague, it is a fact that no one knows what will happen in the next three months. The fact that we have an epidemic does not mean that we will not have natural disasters. The fact that there have been fewer firelights does not mean that the scope of work performed by voluntary firefighters has been reduced. We believe that it is absolutely necessary to return these funds here, because this system of protection and rescue needs to be provided. I don't know who you're communicating with, but the fact is, we need to have backups. We will see what happens in the future when the bill is on the table, but at this point we are talking about the balance. We really think it's necessary to repay the funds. For this reason, we propose the amendment in question and we hope for the support of all the parties in this national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u194	Thank you very much again. I assure you that this government and this coalition of firefighters will not fail. We will certainly talk about them in the PKP5 when it is ready when it is in the National Assembly. Now I have too little time to explain the new concept of protection and rescue. Don't worry, we've never forgotten firefighters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Because no, then I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2130 – Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the three sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Local Development Infrastructure and the amendment of SD and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Creation of Jobs and the amendment of the parliamentary groups Levica, LMŠ, SAB and SD. Anybody want a word? Because he doesn't want to, we're closing the debate. I am also putting forward a sub-programme to support small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the amendments of the LMŠ and SAB parliamentary groups and the amendments of SD and SAB. Anybody want a word? Mag. Meira Hot, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I'm going to be very brief on the content of all four proposed amendments. We believe that small entrepreneurship, small and medium-sized enterprises, in these difficult times that follow, should be encouraged in particular. Unfortunately, we find that funds are falling here. They are declining at the level of small and medium-sized enterprises and support, they are declining at the level of job conservation, and we therefore believe that it is necessary to restore funds to the concrete item within the framework of policy, entrepreneurship and competitiveness, thus ensuring that SMEs are preserved during the potential second wave, so that we do not find out in a few months how many companies have unfortunately been shut down due to the inaction of the competent state authorities. We believe that it would be legitimate, through the proposed amendments, to reimburse them and ensure their existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? No, no, no. Because he doesn't want to, I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 2430 – Ministry of Infrastructure and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the three sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Renewable Energy Sources and the amendment of SD and SAB sent groups and the amendment of the LMŠ and SAB sent groups. Anybody want a word? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Effective use of energy and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Predrag Baković, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Social Democrats are proposing to increase the energy efficiency sub-programme by €9 million and €400,000 for good under the main energy and energy efficiency programme. In Slovenia, there are many buildings that are energy-efficient, causing economic, environmental and social damage. Investments in this energy renovation of buildings reduce these effects and have a positive impact on all these areas. Therefore, we propose to maintain these preliminary budgeted resources for the efficient use of energy to be devoted to this energy renovation, with potential added new content. Two such buildings are also located in Kočev, on the Ljubljana road, where the municipality wants to provide new facilities for energy renovation in these buildings. That is why I am paving the way for this amendment, and I propose that it be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme for the development of the highway and road network and the two amendments of the Group of Social Democrats. Anybody want a word? Member Predrag Bakovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u200	Thank you very much. In this case, too, the Social Democrats propose to increase the sub-programme for the development of the highway and road network by €250,000 under the main road transport and infrastructure programme. It is a state road, a state regional road leading from Stalcers to Kočevska Reka or vice versa. On this road, they built a new water supply a while ago, and — you will not believe — you only rewire half of the road, and the other half remained in extremely poor condition, so it is only right that this matter is trying to be settled as soon as possible. In the NRP this is misleading, but after 2023, which I find completely absurd. That is why this needs to be done as soon as possible, because of the people who are coming, and because this road is becoming increasingly burdened by sea travel, i.e. Croatia, and it is imperative that this amendment be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 2431 – The Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure and the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment activity on railway infrastructure and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Mag. Meira Hot, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u202	Thank you very much. The Social Democrats' Group, LMŠ and SAB propose to increase the sub-programme Investment activities on railway infrastructure by €10 million in the context of the user's policy, the Ministry of Finance, within the framework of the Intervention Programmes and Commitments, within the framework of the main programme of the pandemic Fund, to reduce the covid-19 sub-programme for funding the epidemic by €10 million. We believe that railways play an extremely important role in sustainable transport and therefore should not be reduced by such modest means as to build them. Especially if these assets actually flow from railways to roads. We therefore believe that the amendment we are proposing is a legitimate proposal and we hope for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a budget user of 2550 – the Ministry of Environment and Space and the debate on the amendments tabled to the five sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Mines and the rehabilitation of mining damage and the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I do not see a desire to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Water Management and the three amendments of the Group of Social Democrats. Anybody want to talk? Member Predrag Bakovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u204	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to present a proposal for an amendment concerning an increase of €840 000 in the sub-programme Water Management. As a territorially largest municipality, Kočevska has several farms in its territory, which are isolated and not connected to the infrastructure of the water network. As a result, they are in an extremely poor situation, unable to expand, and some would also like to carry out complementary activities, and thus somehow they do not get permission. It is therefore extremely important that these farms, which represent a very good part of the agricultural economy in Kočevska, somehow be connected or built with appropriate water cover to solve their water supply problems. The next amendment relating to the same sub-programme is to increase the sub-programme Water Management by €3 million, namely the construction of water supply and drinking water supply in SORIKA. It is an upgrade in St. Gregor, the Preska–St. Gregor–Brinovščica and the section of St. Gregor–St. Grebnje and the Brinovščica–Puview–Black Stream. The construction of this water supply in the municipality of Ribnica would ensure reliable supply of safe and healthy drinking water to citizens who do not have an adequate supply of this drinking water. This also improves the hydraulic characteristics and allows new inhabitants to be connected to the public water network. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han also has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would like to present the amendment tabled by the Social Democrats to the Ministry of the Environment and Space, namely, Sustainable water use and water management, is increased by €300,000 under the sub-programme and is taken up at the Ministry of Finance, namely to remedy the injustices and damages of €300,000. You know there's a rainy season coming, the fall is here. All of us in this National Assembly know that in some ways it is important to maintain watercourses regularly so that no floods can occur and all the matters that follow this severe storm. I would therefore ask that this amendment, only EUR 300,000, be adopted for the maintenance of watercourses and riverbanks in the Lahomnica stream in the village of Marija Gradec. There is now a major investment there and it is therefore important that this is somehow settled because it is a later reconstruction of the regional road that will be placed in this space. I therefore ask the Ministry of Finance and Members to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme on the conservation of biodiversity and the protection of natural values and the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? Mr. Predrag Bakovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u208	Yes, in Kočevsko, Krokar is listed on Unesc's list of natural heritage, which is of course extremely important. And to this end, they want to arrange entry points in Kočevska and thus preserve the Crokar jungle. And by doing so, amendments worth 3 million and 500 thousand euros could be successful. It is not just the interests of the congregation, I can say that it is the interest of Europe, because it is the Unesc list of natural heritage and it is such a specialty that is, in fact, important for everyone, both in our country and beyond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? No, that's why I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme on waste management and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ and SAB groups. Anybody want a word? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Housing activity and the amendment of the parliamentary groups LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB. There's two of them reported. Mrs. Andrea Zabrett first. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u210	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Yes, it is the housing problem of young people and the funds are allocated for subsidies to young families who for the first time solve the housing issue. In January this year, the Law on State guarantees for housing loans made it easier for young people and young families to buy their own apartment. In the existing law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, EUR 200 million per year is earmarked for this purpose, for the state guarantee for the loans of citizens who for the first time solve the housing issue. Unfortunately, the existing coalition does not at present show that it would follow a pre-planned course and continue with the process of examining the State Housing Credit Guarantee Act, which would make it easier for young people and young families to buy their own apartments. Therefore, with the amendment proposal, at least partially we are solving the pressing problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaž Han, please. You're giving up. Thank you. Anybody else want a word? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2611 – Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the five sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting forward a sub-programme for the Employment Initiative and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? Mrs Andreja Zabret and Mr Matjaž Han. First, Mrs. Andre Zabret. The lady is faster, Matjaž. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u212	Thank you for your word, Vice President. In this amendment, we are talking about unemployed and active employment policies. In April, an annual increase in unemployment flows reached almost 9,000,500 people. In the coming months, although the inflow, while increasing the outflows from unemployment, has eased but despite the anti-crisis measures in June, the registered unemployment rate has risen to somewhat above 9%. At the end of August, according to the Slovenian Employment Institute, 88 thousand 172 people were registered in Slovenia, representing 16 thousand 628 persons and 23.2% more than last August. In doing so, it is certainly not negligible that at present some anti-crisis measures still apply, such as the measure of reimbursement to workers on temporary leave of work, partial subsidisation of short-term full-time work and the possibility of using tourist vouchers, which raises the question of whether unemployment in Slovenia will continue to increase after the termination of the measures. In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we proposed, in dealing with each so-called anti-korona law, additions to which we would commit employers to retain jobs for those workers for whom they receive assistance after the end of receiving State aid for at least a certain period. It is also worth pointing out that despite the introduction of tourist vouchers, even some of the best tourist companies in Slovenia are forced to forgive a large number of employees, as this measure bypassed them. For this reason, the amendment proposes that funds be provided under the Active Employment Policy Programme, the Employment Initiative, because in the Marjan Sarca List, given the increase in the number of unemployed and the uncertainty when anti-crisis measures cease to apply, we cannot agree that they are even shrinking by means of a rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaž Han is giving up. Anybody else want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate a sub-programme of Fellowships and an amendment of the parliamentary groups LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB. Mr. Jože Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Chairman. We want €9 million worth of €896,000 631 to be allocated to the State Grants and Zois Grants Programme, as regulated by the Grants Act and the Law on the Enforcement of Public Resources Rights. State scholarships constitute social corrections, which means that the grant is justified by a person who is regularly educated, namely students, students and also participants in adult education, and who does not exceed a certain degree of censorship by means of his or her family income or income and who is successful in education. Zois' scholarships are intended for persons who show great talent and achieve excellent educational results. The funds shall also be allocated to the activities of the international mobility of Ad futura carried out through the Public Fellowship, Development, Disabled and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. Since scholarships promote the education of young people and have an important impact on their independence, the amendment proposes more funding for the scholarship sub-programme. Colleagues and colleagues, with quality knowledge, we also provide development. This is how we expect to support the amendment, as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? No, that's why I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion a sub-programme of supporting activities in the field of work, family and social affairs, as well as the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? Mr. Predrag Bakovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u216	Thank you very much. This year, the Municipality of Ribnica will approach the demolition of the existing Ideal Centre facility, since the building has been closed and abandoned for years. The municipality is planning to build a multigeneration centre, which will represent an acquisition for the entire municipality of Ribnica, as it will provide space for culture, sport, association, accommodation and more. This multi-generation centre will thus represent a central meeting place in the local environment for all ages, with a focus on intergenerational integration, and is in fact extremely important for these places, so that we have proposed to increase the sub-programme for support activities in the field of labour, family and social affairs by €1 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of the Social Protection Programmes and the amendment of the SAB, SD, LMŠ and Levica parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Long-term care as well as the amendments of SD and SAB members' groups and the SD Group's amendments, the amendments of LMŠ, Levica and SAB members' groups and the amendments of SD and SAB. Anybody want a word? Three reported, Mr Sonibo Knezak, followed by Mr Predrag Baković and Mrs Andreja Zabret. Mr. Soniboy Prince, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u218	Thank you, Chairman. In the sub-programme Long-term care, with the user 2611 – Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we propose to devote €6 million to the long-term care sector, to start building a new home for the elderly in Hrastnik. Two months ago, when they met the Coronavirus epidemic in this house, there was a comment by the current Minister of Health that homes with such a standard should no longer exist in Slovenia in 2020 – a four-bedroom ranking, so we propose that we provide these funds for the start of construction this year. Let me just say that the local community has prepared all the documentation, has already invested quite a lot of money in it and is also providing land. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Predrag Bakovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Due to the lack of free cities in the network of homes for the elderly, we are proposing the construction of 49 sheltered or so-called protected dwellings in the Market of the Assembly of Emissaries in Kočev, because even during the epidemic it has been shown how important it is that we have sufficient capacity for vulnerable groups of people. And these supplied apartments would be for older than 65 years of age who need help and would be fully adapted to their stay and needs. The construction of these apartments would significantly relieve the pressure on the home of older citizens who are in trouble because they are not currently receiving new residents. Also, Kočevje would acquire the first supplied apartments from Ljubljana to the river, because they are simply not in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u221	Thank you very much. And Mrs. Andrea Zabrett. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u222	Thank you, Vice President. Nowadays, the age group is changing in Slovenia and elsewhere in the world. Social and economic development and progress in medicine have an impact on the longer life expectancy. Which means that some of the 65-year-olds are growing more and more. In Slovenia there is almost one fifth of people over 65 years of age. It is estimated that the proportion of these in 2050 would already be 30%. One of the key challenges facing society today and also politics is the ageing of the population, as we do not have a properly regulated area of long-term care. In our country, the institutional form of long-term care services currently predominates, and we have a less developed system of community-based forms of stay and protection. With the amendments, we therefore propose to increase resources on the sub-programme Long-term care, as we believe that in a situation where many elderly people are unable to access institutional care, it would, of course, be urgently needed, more funding should be allocated to implement a single system of long-term care, investment and equipment for day-to-day or full-day institutional protection, to invest in health and social infrastructure and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 2613 – the Slovenian Labour Inspectorate and to the debate tabled amendment to this budgetary user. First of all, I am putting to the debate a sub-programme on Labour Management and Control, as well as an amendment by SD, Levica and SAB. Anybody want a word? Mag. Marko Koprivc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. The Labour Inspectorate has been warning for some time that it has been understaffed and is therefore asking for more resources for action to facilitate the monitoring of employment violations and other anomalys in working relationships. Its funds have been rebalanced and we propose that the amendment to User 2613 – Policy Inspectorate 10 – Labour market and working conditions under Main Programme 1001 – System and labour market support activities be increased by EUR 250 000. With the user, the Ministry of Finance, under policy 23 – Investment programmes and commitments under the main programme of the Epidemic Fund, reduces the cod fund for the epidemic by the same amount of €250,000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? No, that's why I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2711 – Ministry of Health and to discuss the amendments tabled to the five sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment Investments at the secondary and tertiary level and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Vice President. I am aware that the number or funds we have invested in this amendment – EUR 25 million – is large at this time, but we are talking about a gastroenterology clinic in Maribor where a new investment is needed, of course. That is why we have dedicated this amendment to Investment Investment at a secondary and tertiary level for 25 million, and we would have taken it from the Funds for the Financing of the Epidemic and would have solved some of the issues. I'm asking for your support for this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Joze Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u228	The LMŠ Group, however, makes an amendment of EUR 500 000, for rare diseases that affect a very small part of the population, are rapidly advancing, chronic, often life-threatening and are largely incurable. According to the reasoning of the rebalancing, sub-programme resources are intended to cover the most pressing needs for expensive innovative medicines to treat patients with the most severe disease flow, including medicines for rare diseases that are not yet provided with compulsory health insurance or are not provided to the extent necessary. In this context, means shall also be provided to monitor the effectiveness, safety and cost of treatment with expensive innovative medicines and support the prescription of these medicines, support for ensuring equal treatment of patients who need them and equal access to these medicines. The 2020 budget has already allocated EUR 500 000 to this sub-programme, while the rebalancing of all the funds on the sub-programme is taking place; or, in other words, there is no more resources in the budget for these medicines or resources to monitor the effectiveness, safety and cost of treatment with expensive innovative medicines and support for the regulation of these medicinal products. Although the explanation for the rebalancing indicates that no treatment with these medicines is foreseen in 2020, we believe that in the budget – even for only three months – funds are also provided for the treatment of patients with the most severe disease, this is also for the treatment of rare diseases. There is no way that we can afford to repeat the story of a boy named Chris, who was followed up last year, due to the lack of funds, so that patients with rare diseases or their relatives or charities should collect funds for treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Let me warn you, this explanation was for the next amendment, we have not yet considered it. I didn't interrupt you so you could speak in peace. Anyone else want to do this amendment? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Effective treatment with expensive medicines and the amendment of the LMŠ, Levica and SAB sent groups. The explanation has already been made. Anyone else want a word? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of Public Health Tasks and the amendment of the MPs LMŠ and SAB. Anybody want a word? No, that's why I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme the operation of emergency medical care and health care in emergency situations and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? Mr Matjaž Han and Mr Predrag Baković. Mr. Predrag Bakovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u230	Thank you very much. This amendment concerns the construction of an educational centre for the training of the first mediators in the Municipality of Kočevje. The Municipality of Kočevje joined the project among the first, and according to the size of the congregation, as you have already said, is the largest congregation in the country’s surface, it is essential that it has a well-covered network of first intermediaries. At the same time, the municipality has an excellent professional training staff, and this educational centre would be the most appropriate in Kočev due to all these circumstances. Our proposal is to increase the sub-programme The operation of emergency medical care by EUR 2 million, and therefore I ask everything to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u231	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u232	Thank you very much. We understand that this amendment is well-intentioned; I would like to point out that, in health care, there is an additional EUR 50 million in the balance, based on intervention legislation, provided for €140 million more; and in the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021, there is an additional EUR 50 million in the amount of material costs relating mainly to the purchase of protective equipment — protection tests and other costs related to the management of covida-19. There's enough funding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? No, I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme of the Covid-19 Epidemic Fund and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 3130 – Ministry of Public Administration and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme on the regulation of the field of information society and electronic communications, as well as the amendment of the LMŠ, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? Igor Patchek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. With the proposed amendment, we want to increase resources in the Information Society and Electronic Communications sub-programme, amounting to EUR 3 million. The funds will focus on the preparation and implementation of development policies and strategies in the field of information society and electronic communications, with the aim of more coordinated and faster digitisation of society. The European Commission's findings under the Digital Economy and Company Index show that Slovenia is constantly falling under the average of the Member States. Finally, the European Commission placed us in the 16th place. The development of information communication technology takes place at an extraordinary rate, capable of being followed only by those countries that are aware of its importance and strategically exploit the synergies and potentials of electronic communication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? No, I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 3330 – Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the six sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting to the debate the sub-programme Research programmes and projects, as well as the amendments of the SD, LMŠ and SAB parliamentary groups and the amendments of the leftist groups, LMŠ, SAB and SD. Anybody want to talk? Mag. Marko Koprivc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I mentioned earlier in the debate that it is unacceptable for social Democrats to reduce resources in the field of science, so we are proposing the following amendment. User 3330 – Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, within the framework of Policy 5 – Science and the Information Society, under the main programme 0502 – Scientific research activities increase the sub-programme Research programmes and projects by EUR 2 million 12 000 878. For the user 1611 – Under Policy 22 – Service of public debt and money management, under the main money management programme, the money management sub-programme will be reduced by the same amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Matjaz Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u238	Yes, I can probably also say in the second amendment that science has taken a relatively large amount of money during this period. Although we are talking about the rebalancing and the last three months, we propose that the amendments tabled by Levic, LMŠ, SAB and Social Democrats provide for science at least 15 additional millions; and 15 million from the EUR 22 million seized. This could also benefit the country in the long run. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u240	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since this year is indeed a somewhat slowing down in the implementation of investment projects financed by the Structural Funds, such as the European Regional Development Fund, the funds are planned in line with the change in the financing dynamics of European Cohesion Policy projects and are consequently cancelled in the coming years. In the balance sheet of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, under this programme Research programmes and projects are envisaged to be sufficiently funded, so that it is possible to follow the objective of gradually moving state budget resources up to 1% of gross domestic product, that is our objective. Integral resources are increased by 12.5% on this sub-programme in this year's proposal for a rebalancing year in view of the realisation of last year and by 22% on the basis of 2018. These are the reasons why “no” to this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Even Mr. Luka Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u242	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. My view is quite different from what we heard in the last debate. Slovenia is limping after investments in research and science. We are on the tail of Europe after public investment in this activity. In Slovenia, we target an average of 0.6% of GDP per year for development and research, which is twice that of the European Union. On average, countries target 1.4% of GDP there. And I can't accept the fact that science is being cut out this year. Last year, the science budget was increased, if I am not mistaken, by €42 million; this year, half of this increase is taken from this balance, which means that science will not only be hit, but will also be hit by young people who will already be in difficulties in obtaining jobs because of the economic situation. Cuts to science mean that young students will have even fewer opportunities to get a job in Slovenia; and more bread will look for them abroad. I will definitely support this amendment. We need to raise funds for science if we are to ensure the future for young people in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u244	Thank you very much. We have looked at the programme of the Public Research Agency and we have received information that we trust and are following. All activities will be carried out in accordance with the annual work programme of the Public Research Agency. The funds will aim to ensure the operation, construction and investment of research infrastructures, equipment and projects that constitute a prerequisite for international competitiveness and the permeability of research work. Of course, in New Slovenia we will aim to actually achieve our goal, that is 1% of GDP for research, even in the planned time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? No, I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Enhancing the involvement of children in pre-school education, as well as the amendments of the SD Group of Members of Parliament and the amendment of the left-wing groups, LMŠ, SAB and SD. Anybody want a word? Too dear Baković and mag. Marco Koprivec. Anybody else want some? Mr. Baković, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Social Democrats propose an increase in the sub-programme Increase in the involvement of children in pre-school education by €4 million. With this amendment, we would like to help build a new kindergarten in Kočev, which would then provide adequate spatial capacity to carry out this preschool activity. And, of course, it would also allow all children in the area of this congregation to enter into kindergarten. The Municipality of Kočev is in urgent need of a kindergarten, because they are two, they are Bebelica and Kekec, which are already long-term and do not actually reach standards and standards anymore. This kindergarten would have been 16th grade. In this regard, I ask Members for their support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u247	Thank you very much. More mag. Marko Koprivc, please. Later? So it's not here. Anybody else want a word? Matjaž Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u248	Yes, there is another amendment, worth one million 970,000 euros. In fact, this is the amendment that brings this money back to the Ministry of Education, if I may call it that, because the invitation to build schools and kindergartens was stopped due to the epidemic. With this amendment, we are essentially returning money to the Ministry of Education and could go to a kindergarten building invitation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Implementation of primary school programmes and the amendment of SAB, SD and LMŠ's parliamentary groups and the amendment of SD, SAB, LMŠ and Levica's parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? Mag. Andrei Reich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Chairman. With the proposed amendment, we want to increase the financial resources for primary schools in order to provide a sufficient number of protective masks for all students, as they are subject to the obligation to wear masks while attending classes. The obligation to wear masks is prescribed to protect yourself and others; it is also a measure restricting the spread of new virus infections when entering public spaces, educational establishments and so on. Mask protection can further reduce the risk of infection, of course taking into account all other hygiene measures. In this light, we would like to point out that attending primary school is compulsory and that the Government has prescribed compulsory wearing of protective equipment for attending the compulsory primary school, i.e. masks in this case. We therefore propose that the State provide the students with the necessary masks to be able to attend primary school or have access to education. And we have proposed this proposal together with the Group of Social Democrats and the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc. I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Implementation of secondary education programmes and the amendment of the SAB, SD and LMŠ parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? Mag. Andrei Reich, please. Then Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u252	This amendment is similar to the previous one. We know that secondary education represents a logical continuation of primary education. Also with the proposed amendment of EUR 500 000, we increase financial resources to secondary schools in order to provide a sufficient number of protective masks for all students, as they are subject to the obligation to wear masks while attending classes. The obligation to wear protective masks is prescribed in order to protect yourself and others. It is therefore a measure limiting the spread of infection by a new virus at the time of entry into public educational establishments and so on. Mask protection can further reduce the risk of infection, of course taking into account other hygiene measures. As I have already said, in the SAB we have tabled this proposal together with colleagues from the Group of Members of the Social Democrats and the List of Marjan Šarc. And I also ask all other fellow Members for their support.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u253	Thank you very much. And Mr. Matjaz Han. He's quitting. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u254	Thank you very much. This idea, of course, is well-intentioned and is good and we support it within certain legal frameworks. As far as we know, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport is working to provide resources to finance protective equipment, specifically protective masks. We Members must understand, however, that under the sub-programme, the implementation of secondary or primary education programmes simply does not have an adequate legal basis for financing protective masks because the primary or secondary education programme is not the same as the acquisition of protective masks. I repeat, here we are pleased and we want the Ministry to be successful in the effort to provide some other resources – do not ask me what – to finance protective equipment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? No, I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Food of students, students and students, as well as the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? He won't. I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Sport infrastructure and the two amendments of the SD Group, the amendment of SD and SAB sent groups and the amendment of the LMŠ and SAB sent groups. Mr. Predrag Bakovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u256	Thank you very much. We propose to increase the sub-programme Sport infrastructure by EUR 500 000 for the purpose of the rehabilitation of the swimming pool in Ribnica. It is unacceptable that the funds for sport infrastructure are falling, that sport infrastructure is often needed for a thorough renovation and the municipality alone cannot cover all costs. The pool I am talking about is the only one in the area from Ljubljana to Kolpa and plays an extremely important role for these places, because this is how swimming literacy improves. That is why we propose or ask for support. And in the sub-programme Sport infrastructure we ask for an increase of EUR 700 000, which relates to the construction of the Ribnica sport park, which will cover external sports areas, which has proved essential. And that's why I'm asking for your support here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Matjaž Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u258	Yeah, I missed an amendment before, but it's okay. In fact, the amendment when we talked about the construction of new schools and kindergartens; and we also had 8 million written. This is essentially the amendment we adopted in the budget on the initiative of New Slovenia at the time, and I am sorry that this went out now. I hope that you will accept this amendment, which speaks of three million in order to somehow finance sports infrastructure in Slovenia, given that we are now a sports nation. I would therefore ask that this amendment be also supported at the cost of EUR 3 million and, in a way, Jože, we compensate for one thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? He won't. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Culture and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the nine sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of Cultural Support Activities and the amendment of the SD, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? Mr. Matjaz Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u260	There are several amendments in this area of culture. In the last few days, we have had our mouths full of how poorly this culture is being cared for, that there is not enough money. We went for items like that or other, to these amendments. One amendment that we have tabled says that it is increasing by EUR 910 000 for culture, we are essentially returning funds for support activities and asking for support for this amendment. And if there's any other amendment I can make, the vice president, that I won't come forward. It is a sub-programme for the protection of cultural heritage, archival and library activities. This amendment is worth EUR 2 million 317 thousand, which we are also in some way putting back into the cultural ministry; and I would certainly ask for all these amendments to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, I'm closing the debate. Now it's time for the next amendment, which we've already heard the explanation for. This is a sub-programme for the protection of cultural heritage, archiving and library activities and the amendment of the MP Sam Bevk, the amendment of the SAB, SD, LMŠ and Levica groups, and the amendment of the SD Group of Members. Mr Predrag Baković also wants the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u262	President, thank you for your word, once again and for the last time. We propose to increase the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archival and library activities by €126,000. What's this all about? By a decree published in the Official Journal, Šeškov’s home in Kočev was declared a monument of State importance. It is an extremely important monument to Slovenian statehood and belongs to the national cultural heritage. We all know that from 1 to 3 October 1943, there was a meeting of the Assembly of Emissaries of the Slovenian People, which was actually the first directly elected representative of the occupied people in Europe. An investment that already has a building permit should cover reconstruction, adaptation of the hall, the firehouse and the stagework with all the necessary stage technology. That's why I'm asking for your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u263	Thank you very much. There's still magic in the word. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u264	In the SAB Group we also table amendments in sub-programme 180201 – Protection of cultural heritage, archiving and library activities, for 2 million 317 000 EUR 715. It is that cultural heritage is devoted to the resources it needs. Culture practically yells at the right resources because it's malnourished. And with this amendment, we are returning to the culture the funds that have been taken from it. Remember, culture strengthens national consciousness, strengthens the economy and tourism. And in these times, these investments are still very important. And also this covida epidemic has shown this very strongly. The vouchers that were used to deal with the covida epidemic showed it nicely. Investments in tourism infrastructure, cultural infrastructure are certainly complementary to all the advantages of Slovenian tourism. I therefore ask all fellow Members and fellow Members to support our proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? He won't. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for the media and audiovisual culture and the amendment of the SD and SAB groups and the amendment of the Levica Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u266	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. We want to help the Slovenian film with this amendment. During the quarantine in the first wave of the covida epidemic, assets were frozen to the Slovenian Film Centre and, as a result, Slovenian filmmakers were even more at risk than the rest of the years. Slovenian film has already been so highly undernourished, and the country has practically not been investing in it for 20 or 30 years. If you have ever heard that joke that circulates, why does the average contemporary Slovenian film have one scene in the kitchen and the other behind the bar; the answer is because there is no money for anything anymore. One German feature film costs as much as the entire budget of the Slovenian Film Centre, which produces about ten films each year. There's nicknames in the movie. The nicknames are directors, producers and actors. It is completely unheard of that, with all the billions that we have invested in this year's economy to alleviate the economic and social crisis associated with the quarantine, it is further cut into culture. The funds of the Public Book Agency have been frozen, the funds have been frozen to the Slovenian Film Centre and virtually the entire culture is subjected to very sharp interventions that limit it. If I give you any personal experience, I was in Ljubljana's 400-seat Drama a week ago. Due to the cots of the measures, each other had to be empty and the first eight species had to be empty; they had to be free chairs; and in the end, 65 people could sit in the 400 - seat room. That you can imagine what this means for the income of an institution, what it means for the wages of the performers, what it means for all those who work there. And I can't stand to see the government and the Ministry of Culture act so nonchalantly towards this sector. If I round up the explanation for this amendment, it is essential that we at least try to mitigate the effects of the crisis on cultural workers, particularly here in the film, because they have felt the crisis on their skin even more significantly than others.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? No, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate a sub-programme of Publishing and an amendment of the parliamentary groups LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB. Anybody want a word? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Promotion and Development of the Slovenian Language and the amendment of the SD and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate a sub-programme of Awards and Social Rights in the field of culture and the amendment of the parliamentary groups Levica, LMŠ, SAB and SD. Anybody want a word? Mr. Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u268	Thank you for your word. This amendment touches non-governmental cultural organisations and self-employed people in culture who, despite the crisis they also suffered, are still receiving cuts from the government. As it is said, these are cultural nicknames, one-quarter of them live below the poverty risk threshold, and this year is particularly difficult for them. The events were virtually impossible, the theatres did not work and they moved the performances, half the season fell away, the film was frozen so that we didn't even talk about concerts and other things. I cannot accept that, at the end of these facts, the state in this autumn will receive incision rewards for the means that are vital to them.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? No, I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Pet Culture and the amendment of the SD and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Art Programmes and the amendment of the parliamentary groups Levica, LMŠ, SAB and SD. Anybody want a word? He won't. I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into discussion the grant sub-programme for cultural activities as well as the amendment of the SD, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u270	In fact, all these amendments that we have tabled in the opposition are returning the funds to the budget they have been dispossessed. I am also talking about the explicit funds in the area of cultural scholarships that we will probably need during the crisis. We these people, the culturers, must not let ourselves down and it seems to me that what the government has done in the cultural field is very bad. That's why all these open items and amendments we're making to get the funds back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? No, I'm closing the debate. The vote on the amendments and on the specific part of the proposal for a rebalancing will be held tomorrow, 23 September, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We are moving on to the consideration of the Development Programme Plan. Anybody want a word? He won't. I'm closing the debate. The vote on the Development Programme Plan will be held tomorrow, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We are moving on to a full debate on the proposal for a rebalancing. Anybody want a word? He won't. I'm closing the debate. The vote on the proposal for a rebalancing will take place in full accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2020 and 2021, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Finance of Magi. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u272	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposed law is necessary for the execution of the country's account in 2020. It provides, for the first time, for the possibility of taking over and paying those commitments financed from the European Union's dedicated resources through the planned spending rights in the adopted budget. This is how European funds are being drawn up. Since the additional obligations do not exceed the scope of expenditure in the State Sector Budget Framework Decision, the proposed arrangements are also in line with fiscal rules. Secondly, the proposed law provides for the simplification and acceleration of procedures for the allocation of funds for the financing of investments referred to in Article 21, paragraph 2, of the Law on the financing of municipalities, so that the classification and modification of the value of projects is decided by the Ministry of Finance. All other rules, conditions and means of obtaining funds are already laid down in the Law on the Financing of the Communities. Thirdly, these amendments to the law change the maximum extent of the country's debt for 2020. In addition to the planned debt in 2020, the country was also in charge of financing the measures taken to mitigate the effects of the covida-19 epidemic of EUR 2 billion 167 million, which has already been taken into account in the budget. This law allows for a maximum of five additional jobs for the European Public Prosecutor's Office and allows for funding of material costs associated with the covida-19 epidemic for healthcare providers of EUR 50 million. The funds for this purpose are provided in the balance sheet of the country's budget. In order to avoid possible double funding, the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia will also, in accordance with the proposed law, check the eligibility of the applications submitted. The proposed national budget balance reflects the state, needs and priorities of funding from the state budget for 2020. However, the amendment of the law on the implementation of budgets, which we are currently considering, makes it possible to implement. I therefore propose that you, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u273	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u274	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 25th session on 19 September this year, the Finance Committee considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, namely Articles 3, 4 and 5 of the bill, by the SAB Group and the SD Group to Article 5, by the SAB, SD, LMŠ and Levica Group to Article 5, and by the Left and LMŠ Group to Article 5 of the bill. In an additional recital, the Minister of Finance explained that the proposal for a law was necessary for the implementation of the state budget in 2020. The bill promotes the absorption of European funds and provides for the simplification and acceleration of the procedures for the allocation of funds to finance investments under the Community Financing Act. The highest level of indebtedness of the country for 2020 is increasing. The draft law also allows five additional jobs for the purposes of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and allows the financing of material costs associated with the covida-19 epidemic for healthcare providers. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the amendment tabled under Article 4 took into account the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service on the doubling of the legal regime; however, no comments were made to the Service on the clarity and precision of the first indent of the third paragraph of Article 67(4). The discussion of the members and members of the Committee focused mainly on the amendments tabled under Article 5 of the bill and the solutions resulting from these amendments. Thus, individual members and members drew attention to limited access to health services at the time of the epidemic, making it necessary to allocate funds to reduce waiting types. There was also a mechanism through which the state budget would cover certain costs of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance if it could not cover them by means of compulsory health insurance. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has considered the amendments tabled and adopted the amendments to Articles 3, 4 and 5. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SAB and SD groups, the SAB, SD, LMŠ and Levica groups of Members and the LMŠ. All three amendments were tabled under Article 5 of the bill. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u275	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u276	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleagues, colleagues! The basic objective of the proposed amended law is to legislate and provide a solution to the current and smooth implementation of budgets. The proposed law complements the applicable law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia with the possibility of taking over and paying for those liabilities financed from the European Union's earmarked funds, financial mechanisms and other donors' funds, and the corresponding Slovenian participation items through the planned spending rights in the country's adopted budget. This will accelerate the absorption of European funds, in particular in the area of cohesion policy, and direct budgetary users will be able to assume those commitments on the basis of the Government's agreement. The proposed amendment to the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance also ensures that funding from the state budget will be provided up to an additional EUR 50 million, from a reserve for the financing of epidemic measures. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal and the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Ms Andreja Zabret will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u278	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The new ZIPRS, which we are considering, is changing the country's maximum debt for 2020, with the sum of € 1.6 billion, the government of Janez Janša raises its debt to an unfathomable 7.28 billion. Why so much debt? In its opinion on the budget rebalancing, the Fiscal Council points out that the accelerated growth of budgetary expenditure in recent months, namely those budget expenditure that is not due to the epidemic, is poorly explained. This means expenditure which is not caused by the epidemic. Above all, it is expenditure on labour costs, as well as expenditure on goods and services, transfers under social security; therefore, we are talking about expenditure that is separate from those directly linked to the epidemic. This year's extreme high debt does not fully reflect budgetary needs. And, as the Fiscal Council says, despite the currently favourable conditions for the financing of the rebalancing, there are additional costs. However, historical experience shows that debt reduction is difficult. We owe ourselves excessively; that is what we and our children will be paying back for years. But why? The main problem is that additional large reserves of 1.1 billion are not sufficiently explained during the expenditure, for which until the SDS party's amendment, which we have pointed out in the LMŠ, the government did not even have a legal basis. Under the Public Finance Act, the government can reserve only 2% of the annual reserves, which in this case would be 180 million, not 1.1 billion. According to the Ministry of Finance, the direct impact of measures to mitigate the impact of covid-19 on the expenditure side will be 2.6 billion in 2020. But only a good half of this amount was realized in the first eight months of the year. During these months, most of the measures in force have also expired with the highest possible fiscal impact. I am really interested in how you will spend 1.2 billion in the next three months, because we have a small sea of concerns, even if you are again in March and April manners purchasing protective equipment. If we draw the line, under Janša's first government, companies were over-indebted, and under Janša's third government, the state would be over-indebted; and we would over-indebt citizens and citizens. We certainly can't support such a zipRS in the List of Marjan Sarcas.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u279	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u280	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Budget Implementation Act is a statutory implementing law that allows the implementation of the adopted budget. It defines the key tasks and actions to be carried out, of course, in order to be able to carry out budgetary funding in accordance with, I repeat, the Public Finance Act. Because of its content, this annual law cannot be separated from the budgetary documents themselves. The budgetary allocations are in close relation to the law on the implementation of the budget, whose provisions also affect the allocation of funds. For example, the annual average for municipalities is determined by this law and this law has a direct impact on the budgetary resources available to users, of course. This year's extraordinary and crisis year makes sense that budgetary changes will also adapt to the implementation of the budget. This year's budget rebalancing strongly deviates from the established rules on deficits, debt and other co-financing mechanisms. Such a law must also regulate possible derogations from the system regime laid down by the Public Finance Act. This is particularly important because the government has decided in its fight against the epidemic to create a large budget reserve, as we have also pointed out in the debate itself in the rebalancing process, which, of course, is significantly beyond the general limits of the Public Finance Act, which states that the budget reserve must not exceed 2% of the budget revenue. To some extent, such a reserve is understandable under the circumstances, but since it is certainly inconsistent with the roof law, it is extremely unusual that the government did not recall any disagreement in the drafting of the law. It is only with the amendment of the coalition members on the Committee that the law also includes the authorisation to establish this year's excessive budget reserve. Of course, there is still a solution that raises the country's debt limit from the current 1.5 billion to as much as 7.2 billion euros. This is a debt that goes beyond all of our country's history. Of course, many new solutions to this bill are not. In addition to the decommissioning of the budget reserve, which also poses a high risk to budgetary transparency, this ZIPRS also provides funding to municipalities and other users who, of course, acquire European funds. The bill also provides additional funds for the Institute of Health Insurance, namely EUR 50 million of additional money, which is intended exclusively for the covida-19 epidemic. Members of the opposition and Members of the opposition wanted to ensure that these funds were increased twice to 100 million, with them providing the institution with sufficient resources not only for the protection and security equipment but also for the reduction of waiting types. Of course, this amendment on the Committee has not been adopted and, for all of this, we must say that we will not support the Social Democrats of ZIPRS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u281	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u282	Thank you very much. All in attendance, all in attendance! The amendment of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021 regulates the content relating to the implementation of this year's budget. The solutions relate mainly to solving exceptional circumstances when the covida-19 outbreak occurs. During this financial year, most of the funds to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic were provided by reallocations within the budget and commitments adopted. As a result, the proposed amendment ensures the implementation of the balance sheet of this budget. In view of the balance under consideration, we have generated EUR 9.2 billion of revenue and are expected to spend 4.2 billion more. Uncertain situation and a marked decline in economic activity have been the cause of the crisis, but not comparable to those of previous years. We have witnessed a major fall in income, and we are aware that we must not repeat mistakes in the resolution of the crisis over the past years. As a result, it was necessary to increase expenditure, as it was only in this way that we could avoid longer recession and permanent job losses. Above all, we have protected human lives by quick and decisive action. With an up-to-date and responsible response to daily changes and the needs of the population, the government has successfully affected the growth of the number of infected and has maintained economic activity to the greatest extent possible and thus jobs. We must not forget that the existence and functioning of education, social and health systems is vital to jobs. The welfare of all of us depends on what is created, and this fact must always be before our eyes. The Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre therefore supports the proposed solutions to complement the possibility of taking and paying obligations in the field of cohesion and simplifying the financing of investments under the Community Financing Act. We also support the proposed additional employment for the purposes of the functioning of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and the additions which will enable the financing of the material costs associated with the covida-19 epidemic. We believe that an increase in the extent of the country's indebtedness also makes sense. In recent years, the country has been reducing interest or interest on debt management. The current situation offers debt at low interest rates, which must also be used to prepare for the following year, which can bring certain uncertainties and unplanned expenditure. The proposal for the new ZIPRS for 2020 and 2021 will be supported by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u283	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u284	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. At the previous point, the main criticism of Levice was that the 4.2 billion deficit in the budget, the largest in the history of Slovenia alone, did not find money for culture, for science; it even cut itself into these sectors. But at this point, I'm going to point out something even more fatal. There's not enough money for health care. While the government says that in the budget of the Ministry of Health, the funds increase by 140 million euros; but already a look at the data of the Institute of Health Insurance says that this money is largely understated. This year, the Institute is planning 270 million losses due to lower income from compulsory health insurance and higher expenditure due to cot crisis. Health care, a key segment, a key sector for the fight against coronavirus, remains devoid of funds and is before it runs out of money before the end of the year. The government is spending 140 million more, the projected loss is 270 million. What does that mean for people? Today, the Internet is surrounded by a letter from Kranjčanka, who was infected with appendicitis. Due to covid, the loss of the focus of the doctors, and so on, it took nine days to obtain an adequate diagnosis and surgery. Inflammation of the appendix, which by today’s medicine is a practical disease in which it can be cut with a fairly technical procedure within half an hour, caused 9 days of vomiting, fainting, and was at the threshold of death. And right now he's lying at home on five different antibiotics with a fully severed abdomen. It's just one of those stories that's happening in our health care right now. Ask yourself how many people, due to the current medical situation, will not have timely diagnosis of cancers, how many chronic patients will not receive appropriate treatments and what consequences for human health, people’s mood and ultimately health expenditure in the coming years. Because later when you start to treat a chronic disease, it is harder to treat and more expensive to treat; what it will all mean. And what this will mean for the mood of the nation. As this Kranjčanka wrote, the gynecologist finally told her - You know, like you, you should make a revolution. The solution of Left for these ZIPRS to help the health situation is quite simple. Instead of spending only 140 million dollars for health care, we propose that for this year the entire outage of health bills be covered from the central budget, as is the case for pensions. This year, the budget will earmark €1.2 billion for pensions. Because there's so many missing in the pension box. And we don't see absolutely no reason why I shouldn't spend these 270 million euros on health care so that it can work at least roughly normally. Rather, we wonder why the government, despite the fact that the virus has been with us for seven months, has not provided adequate investment so that the health situation can be normal and that people — not only who have become ill with the covider, but those who suffer from various diseases, from chronic to cancer diseases, and so on — may receive normal and timely therapy. This is probably a prerequisite for us to cope with this crisis as much as possible and with minimal pain. Otherwise, stories such as the story of this lady, who has waited nine days for the operation of the appendix and the diagnosis, not only until the end of this year, but also much more in the following year.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u285	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u286	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Dear colleague Luke! For culture, 16 million more money is in the balance than was realized last year. The President of the Finance Committee, Comrade Polnar, should be listened to. Now to the point. The new Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021 complements the law with the possibility of taking over and paying those liabilities that are financed, for the first time, from the European Union's earmarked resources, secondly, from the financial mechanisms and from other donors' funds, and thirdly, from the relevant items of Slovenian participation through the planned spending rights in the country's adopted budget. However, the direct budgetary user will be able to assume those commitments on the basis of the Government's agreement, unless this results in an excess of the expenditure set by the State for the preparation of the sector's budgets per year. This is justified by the Government's desire to accelerate the absorption of European funds, particularly in the area of cohesion policy. In Article 21 of the Law on the financing of municipalities, the State shall co-finance investments in local public infrastructure and investments of particular importance to meet the common needs and interests of citizens included in the plans for the development of municipal budgets. The classification and modification of the value of these projects after the amendment shall be decided by the Ministry of Finance and no longer by the Government. The government wants to simplify procedures, which we support in Novi Slovenija. In addition to the planned debt in 2020, the country was also in charge of financing the measures taken to mitigate the effects of the covida-19 epidemic of €2 billion. Accordingly, the maximum permissible extent of the country's debt in the year is amended. A maximum of five additional staff are allowed for the purposes of the functioning of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which will operate within the Office of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The European Public Prosecutor's Office is a new Union body responsible for the conduct of criminal investigations and prosecution of crimes against the European Union's budget; it will be the first transnational public prosecutor's office. The proposed amendment also makes it possible to finance the material costs associated with the covida-19 epidemic for healthcare providers. The funds for this purpose are provided in the balance sheet of the country's budget on the COVID-19 Sub-programme. In order to avoid possible double funding, the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance will, in accordance with the proposed law, check the eligibility of the applications submitted. The New Slovenia Group will support ZIPRS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Just a warning. I propose that we do not settle between the views of the groups of Members with the previous Group. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u288	Nice greeting, chairman. Dear Minister, Secretary, fellow Members and fellow Members! In the Slovenian legal order, every time a budget accompanying person is a law setting out its implementation, as the budget as such cannot live without the adoption of the ZIPS. The adoption of the law will increase the level of indebtedness to €7.6 billion this year, raising the country's historical record level of debt to almost €40 billion. In the government of Janez Janša, the 2020 budget balance shows a record government deficit of €4.2 billion and a record public debt, which has risen by a fifth in just a few months, to 82.4% of gross domestic product. In the SAB, until the debt, but priori would not be critical if the funds used at the time of the strictest restrictions due to covida-19 achieved the right objective, this is to mitigate as much as possible the consequences of the coronary crisis on people and the economy. Unfortunately, the first data show that there are some economic sectors on the verge of survival. If corporate bankruptcy continues and unemployment increases in the coming months, the government's financial intervention will not achieve its objective and the costs of this enormous debt will be borne by our children. The SAB has submitted two supplements to the law, with the first addition to which it allocates 50 additional million health bills to implement waiting-type reduction programmes by the end of this year. An urgently needed measure, which unfortunately was not supported by the coalition. The fact is that waiting periods have increased considerably due to the epidemic, the problem has already occurred at the primary level, as patients are not at the primary level at all, but only to receive treatment at the secondary level. As a result, our people’s health will deteriorate, and due to late treatment, we can expect a number of unnecessary deaths that may be avoided. In the SAB, we believe that the country's highest priority should be the health of its citizens. We want the government President's statement on the reduction of waiting lines, as he said in response to my question, to be effectively reflected in practice. And that's for all patients, not just covid patients. Let me remind you that he said that the government will solve this challenge with additional funds in the upcoming anti-korona package 5, but unfortunately this year it will not be possible, because otherwise additional funds should be seen in the rebalancing but not in the rebalancing. With the second supplement, we have earmarked an additional EUR 1.7 million for pensioners to provide free protection masks. A few months ago, we tabled a legislative proposal with which we also wanted to provide free masks for pensioners. Unfortunately, the coalition, together with the party Desus, rejected the bill if the epidemic was lifted and the masks were no longer needed. Although it is clear today that wearing the mask is commanded, the pensioners were once again granted the refusal, including by Desus, even though, given the 13.4 billion expenditure, this expenditure for the state budget would be really insignificant. For all of this, the SAB Group will not support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u289	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u290	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The budget as a way of financing projects and the common public good is a responsible decision on what is intended to be done and why someone is taking the lead. The volatile volume of revenue and the unpredictable consumption structure are objective facts. When considering, they require caution in over generalisation and restraint in oversimplification. The implementation of the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is an urgent and direct condition for the implementation of the balance of the state budget for 2020. In the Desus Group, we believe that local self-government is an extremely important state-owned subsystem, financing the development tasks of municipalities and those that prove to be investment expenditure and investment transfers of municipal budgets must be an integral part of the regulated funding system, that is, the part co-financed by the state budget. The fundamental purpose to be achieved is to respect the principle of compliance of financial resources with competences. All available sources of local authorities should be in proportion to the powers and tasks laid down in the legislation. The proposed new exemption referred to in Article 31, paragraph 5, of the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets shall be established with a view to simplifying and expediting the procedures for the allocation of funds for the co-financing of investments referred to in Article 21, paragraph 2, of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. The result will be faster decisions to co-finance municipal investments. The country can commit to the 2020 budget under the new bill up to €7 billion 283 million; instead of the billions and €591 million so far. These resources will cover expenditure on revenue and expenditure balances, expenditure on revenue in the financial receivables and investments account, and debt repayment in the financing account. It is true, however, that the country's debt of €2 billion and €167 million for the financing of measures related to the epidemic has already been covered by this value. In fact, the scope of the debt is very high, but it does not show that it represents a greater room of manoeuvre to refinance the existing debt with more time-consuming and cost-effective conditions. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance will provide the state budget with a maximum of EUR 50 million to finance the material costs incurred by healthcare providers. The source of these funds is a reserve for the financing of the epidemic. The aim of the amendments to the law is to legislate solutions that will enable the current and smooth implementation of the country's budget balance. We expect, of course, that this balance will also be accepted tomorrow. That is why and precisely why the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021 in the Desus Group will be unanimously supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u291	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and on the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the members of the Left and LMŠ groups, the amendment of the SAB, SD, LMŠ and Levica groups, and the amendment of the SAB and SD groups. Anybody want to talk? First, Mr. Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u292	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! As I have already said in my position, this amendment proposes to finance the entire decommissioning of the health treasury in 2020 from the central budget. The problem I described is very clear. While the government is spending € 140 million more in the budget of the Ministry of Health, it will not even cover the current gap in the Institute of Health Insurance, which will amount to 270 million. It is said that over the thumb – raising funds in the budget is about half too small to cover the overall health deficit this year. This means that health care can run out of money at the end of the year, and this means that there will be no funds for investments in healthcare facilities in the infrastructure needed to deal with the covida-19 epidemic. Right now, all those who might have needed a doctor in the last few weeks, you know, you know there's an emergency in health care because of covido. People who have chronic diseases or who need diagnosis can't get to them in time because the focus is essentially on infecting the epidemic. The state would urgently need a separate co-vid of the facility in order to allow the rest of the health care sector to function as normally as possible. As the waiting lines continue to grow, all the necessary operations were virtually postponed between March and June, and of course people are carrying the burden. These aren't in the stats that died after covido-19, but they're victims of the epidemic. They are not directly victims of covida-19 disease, but they are victims of the way they face the epidemic, the malnutrition of health care and the conditions currently prevailing there. I know that everything can't be solved with money; there are significantly more problems in health care than money — from organization to staff burnout. If you ask a young doctor how much he worked last week, you won’t rarely hear any crazy numbers like 80 hours or anything like that, or that he went to work on Sunday and came back on Wednesday. But right now we're in a situation where health care urgently needs money, investments, so that we can build separate covid outpatients to keep the rest of the health care as normal as it breathes. Three months after the first wave of the epidemic, people have somehow squeezed their teeth, and in the second wave of the epidemic, there are no more excuses to avoid this in a different way, and not to make sure that people who are not ill after covids, but because of covid can't get treatment, they can get treatment under some normal conditions. That is why I am putting my heart at your disposal to support our amendment, which, of course, will not solve this; it will, however, allow the start of a solution by giving a green light, that investments in health care should be covered from the budget and that this year's deficit, which is the result of the covida-19 epidemic, will be covered from the current budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u293	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u294	Thank you very much. The covida epidemic has changed our lives well, and we all remember the shocking sights of the homes of the elderly and hospitals in Italy, Spain and France. And even under this impression, the government has taken measures in the field of health care and, of course, has severely restricted access to health services. Access to a doctor was practically possible only for emergency, life-threatening conditions. As a rule, contact with a doctor was possible only via telephone, and also via contact points, where usually administrative workers who recorded patient data were contacted. And it took two months for people to start summer vacations when they usually take vacations. All of these circumstances have caused quite a number of inconveniences. The planned operations, the checks, the waiting types have been extended, access to the primary level, to the secondary level, to the diagnosis has been disabled. All of this, of course, has also somehow influenced the whole process of treatment, and some of the delay in accessing them has unfortunately made it unnecessary. An additional problem also arose with patients who had been dismissed from hospital treatment and should have started rehabilitating, and many were not able to go to home because the homes for pensioners were not accepted by the warders. However, health institutions also had problems because they were not allowed to implement the programme and therefore lost their income with the same existing expenditure or even increased expenditure due to more expensive and delayed work, such as the purchase of protective equipment, disinfection, longer work to ensure hygiene. This is all one set of cases which have not been adequately taken into account in these anti-crisis packages; and also because of all these combinations, waiting types have been extended. As I said before, some have not been diagnosed. It was observed that 30% of the less cancerous patients were diagnosed, not because these patients would be smaller, but because people simply did not get a diagnosis. And it is precisely because of this fact that we have tabled this amendment in the legislative proposal to allocate an additional EUR 50 million to healthcare for the reduction of waiting lines this year. We believe that money should follow the patient and that the patient or the insured person must receive a service when needed. In the SAB we advocate strong, effective and accessible public health care. And also this measure, as we now propose, we understand precisely in this direction, in the direction of strengthening the public, accessible, strong and efficient public system. The current situation essentially strengthens the expansion of one uncontrolled parallel system, which is all the more than a solidarity that does not allow access to public services to the widest number of beneficiaries; I therefore ask my fellow Members to support our proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Matjaz Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u296	Very short, because I know it's ten o'clock, and I don't want to go on. It is the amendment of all four opposition parties, not just the SAB. We are aware that due to covid, waiting species have been extended according to the latest data. We all have to do something together in this area. I've heard the individual ministers' thesis of saving lives a number of times lately. Now we have an opportunity to start with some of the minimum funds, which are called 50 million, in some way the waiting line in health care is cut. If you have been monitoring the media these days, you can see that the problem is that people simply do not get to a general doctor, to their doctor because doctors are simply overloaded. Therefore, it seems to me that with our amendment to the Left, the Social Democrats, the List of Marjan Šarca and the SAB, with an increase of 50 million, could in some way allow the waiting periods to be reduced in a short time. Of course, everything is not just about money, and much depends on the organization. However, the Minister must also do something in his field, which is why this amendment is ours, which we are also putting together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mag. Andrei Reich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u298	I apologize to my colleague for forgetting to mention it. However, we have another amendment concerning the protection masks for pensioners, which amounts to EUR 1.7 million. As I have already said in the debate, it is a measure which provides pensioners with three free laundry masks per month by the end of this year, given that the use of masks is compulsory, that many pensioners need them to go to a doctor to need them to go to town, to shop, to bus, to school or to some theatre. Since this is a vulnerable group of people, I propose that our amendment amounting to 1.7 million euros be supported. This is a relatively small amount in the total budget amount of 13.4 billion euros. And it's a necessary measure. And here I would appeal once again to all that if the state prescribes something that is mandatory, then this most vulnerable group of people, who is also statistically more susceptible to the consequences of the covid's epidemic, will be granted these protective masks free of charge, that the state will pay them and that each pensioner will be provided with three free laundry masks per month by the end of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaz Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u300	Dear Andrei, this is where we are signed. If you explain correctly, it's nice to put the Social Democrats on the line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-22-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u301	Yeah. Here's the thing. Once there's 100 million, once there's 50, and 1.7 doesn't. At least I don't have that in my amendment review. You have to decide which amendment has been tabled. Anyone else want a word? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 20th meeting of the Assembly, to be resumed tomorrow, 23 September, at 9 a.m. with the consideration of the Proposal for a decree amending the Framework Decision on the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2020 to 2022. I want everyone to have a safe trip home and good night! (The sitting was suspended 22.) SEPTEMBER 2020 AT 22.02.)
