ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-30-SDZ8-Izredna-56.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 56th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 2, Article 60, paragraph 2, and Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and on the basis of a decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly adopted at the 88th meeting of 21. 12. 2020. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Lidija Dijak Mirnik, Luka Mesec, Igor Peček, Aljaž Kovacič, Soniboj Knezak, Jani Prednik, Predrag Baković, mag. Marko Koprivc, mag. Diane Jedhan, Dr. Franz Duck, only Bevk, Marko Bandelli and Mag. Branislav Rajić. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, cooperation at a meeting outside the seat of the National Assembly has not been announced by any Member or Member of the Committee using a remote meeting application. At the meeting, I invited representatives of the Government to all the agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! In accordance with the second and fourth paragraphs of Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the agenda for the sitting of the National Assembly shall be set at a distance by the College of the President of the National Assembly with a reference, so we shall not vote on it. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is a preliminary conclusion on the non-admissibility of a legal referendum on the law on intervention measures to help ease the consequences of the second wave of epidemiism of manid-19 PCP7. On the basis of Article 21a of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, the Government submitted a proposal for a decision. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Andrea Shirtzle, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-30-SDZ8-Izredna-56.ana.u2	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Act on temporary measures to mitigate and remedy the effects of covid-19 on which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes, in accordance with Article 90(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 21a of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative of the National Assembly, the adoption of a decision establishing the inadmissibility of the legislative referendum, further mitigating and remedying the consequences of the natural disaster of infectious diseases covid-19. The first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that a referendum shall not be permitted to be published on the laws on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the State, security and remedy the consequences of natural disasters. In accordance with the provisions of Article 21a(1) of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, the National Assembly shall, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, adopt a decision establishing that the referendum shall not be permitted to be declared because it is an emergency measure to ensure the defence of the State, security and remedy the consequences of natural disasters. In accordance with Article 8 of the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, a mass outbreak of communicable disease is also considered a natural disaster. Likewise, the Council of State has already decided that it will not require the National Assembly to rule on the law before declaring it. The Act on Intervention Measures to Help Endow the Consequences of the Second Wave of the Covid-19 Epidemic provides a basis for assistance in pardoning and remedying the effects of covid-19. This Act lays down measures to ensure, as soon as possible, that the effects of covid-19 on the widest possible range of beneficiaries are mitigated and eliminated with measures which were perceived as necessary in the process of preparing the draft law to adapt to the situation in relation to covid-19 and the movement of the economy. The specific objectives of the proposed measures are to preserve the jobs and operations of businesses, to adapt health and social protection and to help the economy. The measures are, by their nature, temporary as they regulate the content associated with covid-19 and follow the way in which people are protected by health and life and the provision of liquidity to economic operators. In the light of the uncertainty about the consequences of covid-19, which appear throughout the world, the legislator does not only have the right but also has the duty to adapt the legislation to the social situation and to amend it if it is dictated by the changed social relations. The urgent measures taken by the State to mitigate and address the negative effects of covid-19 on the population and the economy must be as effective as possible and their implementation must be swift. The Act on Intervention Measures to Help End the Consequences of the Second Wave of the Covid-19 Epidemic thus constitutes an additional emergency and temporary measure allowing immediate and effective assistance to be provided in the resolution and remedying the consequences of the natural disaster in the Republic of Slovenia, both for the population and for the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! As a result of that fact, the Government calls or proposes to the National Assembly to adopt decisions establishing the inadmissibility of the legislative referendum, thereby finding that the Law on Intervention Measures to Help Endure the Consequences of the Second Wave of the Covid-19 Epidemic refers to a content which, in accordance with the first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, is not allowed to call for a legislative referendum. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-30-SDZ8-Izredna-56.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first word is "Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia". The position will be presented by Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-30-SDZ8-Izredna-56.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Two days ago, on Monday evening, we adopted, on the Committee on Finance, 11 votes in favour and only two votes against, a complementary draft law on intervention measures to help mitigate the consequences of the second wave of covid-19. Yesterday, the law was also confirmed at a meeting of the National Assembly, with an unpredictably large majority, with 50 votes in favour and only 7 votes against. Today, the State Council has rejected the procrastination veto, so we must consider and adopt an accompanying act to the basic law, this is the proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum. The 7th anti-Korona package includes measures primarily aimed at the socially weak, pensioners, students, waiting staff, employees in health institutions and nursing homes. A number of provisions include assistance to individual activities: transport, health care, catering, tourism. Members of the Desus Group are particularly reminded of the solidarity allowance for pensioners and the part of the whole of the measures aimed at co-financing investments and assets and at refinancing financial liabilities in micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The financial impact assessment is €550 million, with two-fifths of the total value being devoted to helping economic operators. Understanding democracy usually leads to the conclusion that representative democracy is a rule and that a referendum should be avoided as a system allowing voters to vote only by yes or no or by pros and cons. A very solid dose of mental pathology is needed for the referendum problem of law, which brings such tangible benefits to so many people. But we live here and now, in Slovenia. The sharp criticisms and outbreaks of hatred not only stem from conflicting ideological or political views, but also from the general human tendency to conceal some unpleasant and sad truths about Slovenian reality. The beauty of democracy in Slovenian is an insurmountable source of inspiration for distortions of all kinds, which creates an overpowered aesthetic experience in the audience. In fact, it is an anti-Civilisation mockery, which thoroughly disrupts the Slovenian political system as well as the Slovenian society as a whole. Those who want to do so will understand, and those who want to do so simply have no help. With no argument can you convince them, all attempts are completely hopeless. Nothing can overcome their belief that the world is an hated place and that everyone just wants to hurt them. They will be tirelessly barking up moldy phrases about equality, justice and corruption of power. The worst thing in the modern Slovenian world is that it is never possible to determine when people who are ontologically involved are at work for democracy and when uncontrolled ambitions of an individualist type are. The social definition today does not require any other moral and ideological discipline other than activity. Activities that show themselves through aggressiveness and destructiveness, which turn the responsible function of professional policy many times into irresponsible and uninteresting custodians of their own poor soul. Is it not a sick world in which frightening information about the number of sick and dead, despite a loud cry, appears to individuals who hypocritically invoke human rights? People who see nothing but an introduction to dictatorship in government measures, such as restrictions on movement, prohibitions on various activities. It's nothing but sick. Members of the DeSUS Group will unanimously support the proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on anti-Korona law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-30-SDZ8-Izredna-56.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Suzanne Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-30-SDZ8-Izredna-56.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello to you on my behalf, too. The year 2020 is ending. In recent days, the Government and the National Assembly have accelerated all procedures for the adoption of the seventh anti-Korona marriage package, which is necessary, as it mitigates the consequences and impact of the epidemic on the population and the economy. It is essential that the law enters into force as soon as possible and that the measures taken in the CAP7 reach people as soon as possible. Let me point out just a few of these measures: the allowance for employees whose last salary has not exceeded two times the minimum wage, the so-called 200-euro crisis allowance, the reimbursement of costs for transport operators, the introduction of a temporary salary allowance for loss of employment of EUR 513 for those who have lost their employment from 18 October, the solidarity allowance for pensioners with the lowest pensions, the solidarity allowance for all children up to the age of 18, an additional EUR 100 or 200 for families with three and more children, a 100-euro higher allowance for the care of the child, a solidarity allowance for 150-euro students, emergency assistance for the birth of a child born from 1. 1. 2020, EUR 500, a hazard allowance and a special burden on health and social workers, aid for firefighters to lose their income in 2020, ranging from EUR 2 000 to EUR 4 000 500, depending on the category of society, and could also be listed. These are measures whose total value is estimated at just over €550 million. The times we found ourselves in are truly difficult and uncertain. They're facing the whole world. Slovenia is not some isolated island on which to close and simply wait for the epidemic to pass. The wise conduct of all of us is essential, and appropriate measures are a necessity. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, the proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the PKP7, which mainly means helping the most vulnerable groups, pensioners, families, the economy and job conservation, will be supported. I want you to stay healthy and all the good in the year to come, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-30-SDZ8-Izredna-56.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Andreja Zabret will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-30-SDZ8-Izredna-56.ana.u8	Your Honor! When we adopted the amendment to the law governing the referendum and the people's initiative, we were able to hear from the government that the amendment limiting the referendum initiative of citizens is appropriate, necessary and proportionate. Although the Government has prepared a legislative amendment in accordance with the 2013 amendment of the Constitution. Since then, the right to a referendum has been limited in relation to the laws on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the country and security or to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. All this in order to ensure that a long-term legislative procedure and a potential referendum would not jeopardise the implementation of constitutional provisions such as the protection of the constitutional order and the security of the State, the people and the property. Thus, for such cases, when urgent measures are being taken by law to remedy the consequences of a natural disaster, which is an epidemic of covid, a legal possibility has been adopted to restrict citizens' constitutional right to a referendum initiative. A completely different story is when it comes to the law that under the cover of intervention legislation hides changes that are of a lasting nature or measures that the government can extend voluntarily and beyond the legislative branches of government. This was also pointed out by the Law-Legal Service. According to the Group of Members, such a derogation from the powers of all of us who have been elected to this National Assembly is inappropriate and harmful to the degree of democracy. The excessive use of the legal option pre-banning the referendum initiative, according to the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca, constitutes a disproportionate intervention in the constitutional category. For this reason, we believe that the decision to ban today's referendum on the law, which introduces certain permanent changes to the system law, is not in place and will not be supported by the Marjan Sarca Group. Let us also recall, however, that the drafter of the law, namely the Government, has other ways to ensure the implementation of the measures from 1 January, which is now following by this ban on the referendum, without prejudice to the constitutional right of the referendum initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-30-SDZ8-Izredna-56.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mag. Meira Hot will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-30-SDZ8-Izredna-56.ana.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As with all intervention laws which must be implemented without delay for the sake of general interest, the seventh anti-Korona package is accompanied by a proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum. For several years, the Constitution has allowed laws with urgent content to be enforced without being challenged by referendum decisions. The reason for this is the need for certain rules to be implemented immediately or for the affected to receive assistance immediately. If the content of the law is urgent, the conditions for prohibiting the referendum shall be met. The urgency of the content is not determined by the title of the law, but by its content, and for the last two days we have spent most of our time and energy trying to remove content from the law, which is certainly important and certainly not necessary. After the parent’s working body indicated that the coalition had found reason and had renounced unnecessary content, a new effort had been made at yesterday’s meeting of the National Assembly to bring the content of the issue back to law. With every emergency, with the epidemic unrelated to the content of the law, one of the citizens is at risk of exercising his constitutional right and in court challenging the decision to ban the referendum that is to be adopted today. Much of the time and energy at yesterday's meeting of the National Assembly was devoted to discussions on the content that should not be in the intervention law at all: the abolition of the NGO fund, forced retirement, the permanent increase in contributions paid to religious workers by the State, as well as the retribution for violators of government measures. Following all the debates held, the majority of Members, who retain the content at issue in the law, in particular, forced retirement. A law with such content cannot judge between those constitutional exceptions where a referendum is not possible. However, a possible referendum request or a judicial assessment of a decision prohibiting the referendum would delay the enforcement of the law and thus block the useful measures that people already expect. In the Group of Social Democrats, we would like to see useful measures implemented as soon as possible, so we will not oppose the decision to ban the referendum. The responsibility for the possible non-constitutionality of the law or the postponement of the law by way of a referendum decision must be taken by those who have proposed the marriage solutions, those who have chosen an untransparent package approach and those who, by their votes, have taken care of planted essential content that can overshadow anything that is in the marriage text of good and even prevent its rapid application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-30-SDZ8-Izredna-56.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Gregor Perič will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-30-SDZ8-Izredna-56.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected and respected! This year we have already adopted seven packages of measures to mitigate and remedy the effects of covid-19 epidemics. This time, specifically, to help alleviate the consequences of the second wave of the epidemic. The figures show that immediate action, co-protection of public health and assistance to residents and the economy is needed. In addition to all measures taken so far, the law on intervention measures to help mitigate the consequences of the second wave of covid-19 epidemic is further mitigating and remedying the consequences of the natural disaster of covid-19 infectious disease. Economic forecasts are not encouraging. The international institutions are forecasting a fall in gross social product growth of 8% in 2020 and a concrete slowdown in economic growth or a fall in gross domestic product in the coming year. In the last quarter of the forecast of economic trends for Slovenia, Omar states that, despite the recovery of most of the activities in the third quarter, economic activity remained 6 % below last year's level when most of the health protection measures were released. Economic activity could begin to recover next year in the light of the gradual release of detention measures, but it is not until 2022 that it is expected to return to the level before the pandemic. Many of the measures we have taken to combat the covid-19 epidemic are still in force. Most of them directly affect the scope of economic activity. Certain activities are still prohibited and some are carried out to a reduced extent. Many restrictions have resulted in irreparable consequences in the economy and consequently affect the material and social situation of citizens and citizens. The law thus lays down measures, inter alia, in the areas of health, labour, social and health care, road transport for passengers and the liquidity of economic operators. In the legislative process, a number of amendments were adopted to the law, which improved most of the provisions and also deleted some. Special attention and changes have therefore been given to certain provisions which, in our view, did not reflect the purpose of the law, this is a condition for the acquisition of rights with impunity and, in this context, even the return of funds received back when the law was not in force at all. Such retroactive interventions into acquired rights with the possibility of an arbitral decision on their eligibility are not appropriate. The law was created in response to the emergency situation, which no one can deny. This is shown in all three elements. Firstly, the consequences of the epidemic with the consequences of other natural disasters or economic crises in the last seven decades are incomparable. Secondly, in bad forecasts of economic trends for this year and future work. And thirdly, in the current stagnation of economic activity as a consequence of the serious material and social threat of co-citizens and citizens. The Act on Intervention Measures to Help End the Consequences of the Second Wave of the Covid-19 Epidemic responds to the current situation and thus contains a number of temporary measures aimed at immediate action in terms of remedying the effects of the covid-19 natural disaster on society as a whole. As set out in the first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the referendum shall not be permitted to refer to the laws on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the State, safety or remedy the consequences of natural disasters. Therefore, in accordance with Article 21a of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, we are today deciding on the admissibility of the referendum on the Law on Temporary Measures to Eliminate and Eliminate the Consequences of Covid-19, stressing that every elector may, within 15 days of the entry into force of the law, apply for an assessment of the constitutionality of the law in violation of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia. However, the Constitutional Court must decide on the application within 30 days. The proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on Intervention Measures will be supported in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you so much for your attention and a nice holiday.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-30-SDZ8-Izredna-56.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-30-SDZ8-Izredna-56.ana.u14	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, hello! We have the seventh in a series of marriage packages to help the Janez Janša government establish a normal, sustainable public health situation, revitalize the economy and alleviate the social distress of citizens and citizens during and after the epidemic, which is the time of the worst health, social and economic crisis from independence to today. Emphasis on – should be. But after a well-known traditional pattern, the present seven anti-Korona package also offers a set of measures that have no connection to solving the health crisis. Anti-Korona measures are traditionally too late, and this is not the case for those who have no connection to the epidemic. PKP7 also changes the legal, constitutional and social order in the Republic of Slovenia and primarily serves to consolidate the power of Janez Janša, his political friends, and to benefit friends from the economy and this time the church. Instead of taking care of people in distress, take care of themselves and their own. Everyone's problems remain unresolved. By the number of deaths with covid-19 we remain in the very top of the world. Hospitals and nursing homes remain overcrowded with patients and caregivers and exhausted and exhausted in the types of employees. But the solution is not what it is. But the central problem in the crowd, although many of whom are served by the government of Janez Janša in the seventh anti-Korona package, is the recast of the basic labour legislation – the Labour Relations Act, the Small Labour Constitution, and the Labour Market Regulation Act. I'll explain. Without any connection to the actual resolution of the social or public health crisis, the government directly intervened in the lives of employees prior to retirement. Pensioners today make up one of the most socially disadvantaged groups. Poverty is the most common among them. Now the government in the anti-Korona package has taken the stand for forgiveness of older workers without specifically asking or taking into account the opinions of trade unions. Workers will be forgiven by employers of their own free will, by their arbitral decision. In the trap of pension poverty, the government is thus throwing another 14,000 people. Traditional subcontractors and traditionally long and well-founded criticism of the Legislative and Legal Service, which states on forced retirement: “In the first place, the question of the placement of matter in the legal proposal under consideration is raised, since there is no link to the purpose of the bill as set out in Article 1.” Next: “Both measures, as introduced by Articles 28 and 29 of the draft law, are in common that they are constitutionally controversial. This is an infringement of Article 2 of the Constitution, since it is a baptized principle of the protection of trust in law and the principle of clarity and certainty of the rules. At the same time, it is a constitutional prohibition of discrimination on the basis of the age referred to in Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Constitution and an infringement of Article 49 of the Constitution which speaks of freedom of work. We estimate that the principle of proportionality, which has been breached by decisions of the Constitutional Court, has been given the constitutional rank of the general legal principle." That's the legal and legal service. In the Levica Group, we strongly opposed such legal and constitutionally controversial government action in the vote. And more than six times before, we believe that it is precisely because of the futility of the substantive, legal and constitutional disclosure that such measures, I repeat, serve only the government and its friends and they have nothing to look for here during the worst economic and social crisis. The law therefore contains things that have no connection with the intervention measures to combat the economic, social and public health crisis, and therefore the ban on the referendum is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-30-SDZ8-Izredna-56.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will present its position, for her Tadeja Šuštar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-30-SDZ8-Izredna-56.ana.u16	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday we adopted measures prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to mitigate the consequences of the Corona virus epidemic. For today's decision on the proposal for a decision, the content of the adopted package PKP7 is important. The law raises assistance for parents of children with special needs at the time of the epidemic by EUR 100, for which I am particularly grateful to my fellow Member, Alexander Reberšk. On a proposal from New Slovenia, the law contains an additional EUR 500 for all children born in 2020 and within one year of the end of the epidemic. We are pleased that the coalition partners have listened and supported us. The law also contains a single solidarity allowance for each child of EUR 50. The family is the foundation on which our society is built, and if this foundation is solid, the Slovenian society and the Slovenian economy will be able to operate in the long term. This is all the more so in times of crisis brought by the Coronavirus. On the proposal of the NSI, we also added a provision to the law that parents can interact free of charge with a child with special needs, no matter how old the child is. We are aware that the presence of one of the parents at the hospital is important for children and for staff who do not know the child well enough to understand them. Thus, treatment continues or ends quickly and successfully. With changes in the area of partial coverage of fixed costs, we have also increased aid to the most affected companies. Among the most important measures are certainly labour market measures. Employees who meet the conditions for retirement will only be able to continue working with the employer's consent. This ensures that both sides, both employees and employers, will be taken into account in this decision. We are confident that employers will maintain a working relationship with workers who work well. On the other hand, the social security of pensioners is ensured through an old-age pension. We expect that this measure will also encourage the employment of more young people who are highly motivated by new employment opportunities and life opportunities and challenges. This is an extremely important development measure, and we are therefore pleased that our amendment, which introduced these provisions in the draft law, was adopted yesterday. We have not even forgotten the firefighters who, as a result of the spread of the coronavirus, dropped out of the annual December campaign to collect voluntary contributions from house to house, and we have earmarked between EUR 2 000 and EUR 5 000 500 for the category of firefighting society. This will provide them with the means to purchase personal protective equipment, common equipment and fire-fighting vehicles that they received at the time of the distribution of the calendars. It saddens me, however, that yesterday we also witnessed a debate that contained elements of religious intolerance and that certain articles were excluded from the law, which would help religious servants of all religious communities to pay their contributions. Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that a referendum shall not be permitted to be published on the laws on emergency measures in order to ensure the defence of the State, security or remedying the consequences of natural disasters, to which we may also consider an epidemic of coronavirus. When we weigh between the right to a referendum on the one hand and the fate of the people on the other, this time we must weigh in favour of saving our citizens in these times of crisis. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group we welcome the fact that the National Assembly will adopt a decision to conclude that the referendum is not admissible. Not because we don't want a referendum, but because we want help from individuals and businesses, which I briefly described, to come as soon as possible. Every day would be too long in those days. The proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of a legislative referendum will be supported by Christian Democrats. As the youngest Member, however, I have the honour to wish all Members and all Members, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group and all those who accompany us, much success and good times and, of course, a lot of health in the year ahead. God lives Slovenia!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-30-SDZ8-Izredna-56.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Then we will move on to a debate where we have one Member declared. That's Rudy Bear. The rest were the checkouts.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-30-SDZ8-Izredna-56.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, President. Your Honor! With a view to providing a legal basis for the immediate implementation of the Law on Intervention Measures to mitigate the effects of covida-19, we again have before us a decision on the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum. The bill, according to the Government, is an urgent measure that will enable the immediate and effective provision of easing and remedying the consequences of the epidemic for both the population and the economy. We welcome some of the measures in the SAB Group, as they are necessary and necessary in view of the situation. However, we cannot claim this for all the measures the government has taken in this law. Such a measure is, for example, a measure of compulsory retirement which, despite attempts to ease, remained in its original form. As such, it represents a lasting measure and a strong intervention in labour legislation and also in the stability of the budget. In the SAB, we have also proposed that the funds allocated to the priests should be allocated in the same way to the students on whose shoulders the debt we are now borrowing and borrowing will remain due in the future. On the other hand, the Roman Catholic Church is rich enough to make up for the loss of income, and many families of students do not have this option. All the provisions remaining in the legislative text in dispute are also disputed in the light of the excessive application of the constitutional prohibition of the referendum and thus prejudices the right to a referendum. From the proposal and explanation of the coalition groups, it is clear that this government, as well as individual parliamentary groups or parties, do not trust the people. We have also heard some bad words about this people, who we are Slovenians. I don't think talking like that is acceptable, and I don't think it's the right time. And then some wonder why this people don't trust this government and this coalition. There would be a need for a thorough reflection which the Government has obviously not carried out, whether all the contents of this law really represent only the necessary measures provided for in Article 90 of the Constitution. In particular, provisions that constitute permanent legal changes and also interference with financial stability will be brought to the fore, as they will continue to burden them all the years. So we put people in a working relationship where they pay their contributions at the expense of a pension box that's already loaded. I think it's a little against everything. This was also pointed out by the Fiscal Council and to unacceptable interference in labour legislation. This was also clearly pointed out by the Law-Legal Service. We agree with this, as they explained. We are disappointed that coalition parties have not recognized the necessity of deleting all the disputed provisions of the proposal and have rejected our proposals for necessary improvements. We will not support this proposed decision on the inadmissibility of the call for a legislative referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-30-SDZ8-Izredna-56.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a discussion on the proposal for a decision. The word is from a colleague of Rudy Bear's.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-30-SDZ8-Izredna-56.ana.u20	Thank you, President. I do not have the honour of wishing you a happy and healthy new year together, but I have even this honour to discuss this subject alone today. I have not forgotten to quit the debate, as the majority of you applied for since the debate, but it seems worth saying a few words and justifying why we cannot and will not support the conclusions on the inadmissibility of the referendum in the List of Marjan Šarc from the first anti-Korona package. We celebrated the day of independence and unity and independence of Slovenia days ago on the basis of the referendum. The referendum is an expression of the will of the people in the foundations of this country. It is in the foundations of this country and laughs on the other hand is not justified because it is the SDS party that has continued the tradition of referendums through the history of Slovenia's independence. We've had more than 20 referendums. Most of them were on the initiative of the SDS party, which is nothing wrong. There's nothing wrong with that. But then March came this year, and since then, the referendum in this country has been gone. The referendum is no longer in this country and the SDS party is running the government. An epidemic is just a convenient excuse. Just a convenient excuse. True, in the context of the epidemic, it would be risky to organise referendums. But it wouldn't be any different, I'm sure it wouldn't be any different if there wasn't an epidemic. This ruling coalition, as far as it's concerned, would always find an argument as to why a referendum on a regulation is inadmissible. And how right we were in the List of Marjan Šarc, when we amended referendum legislation this year and demanded the right to adopt such a decision as is now on the agenda, a two-thirds majority. At that time, we were right, and now since spring we have been strengthened by the ruling coalition’s course of action in the belief that we were right. And believe me, if this were to be determined by a two-thirds majority then incorporated into referendum legislation, these anti-korona packages would be completely different. They would not have these so-called planters, who have absolutely no connection to the epidemic, are of a temporary nature; they are not necessary, but they are changing the system in different areas. They would simply not be there because the government would not try them because of a two-thirds majority. In this way, all of us are being abused in all these anti-Korona laws, and this PKP7 is no exception. Just an example, forced retirement is built into it — and what will help in the fight against the virus? What will help in the fight against the virus? The measure is not of a temporary nature, it is not consistent with the social partners, it is reckless, it is imposed. And the unions are on their feet, we could have heard that today. In any case, the matter will end in the Constitutional Court. That's all that's ripe for a referendum. But since it has been found and is packed in this PKP package, of course the referendum will be inadmissible. Not to list all such subsets in the previous six packages, but there are quite a few in each. In Slovenian legislation, these crownacles have now caused such confusion and disorder, including the unconstitutionalness of virtually no one in it. But this is just the way this government works. Even in the case of purely everyday measures in practice to contain the epidemic, there is nothing different. Look at the confusion over bringing the kids back to school. Does the school secretary have any idea how she's gonna get the kids back to school? And this should be her only and primary task. We would have expected after all this time when schools were closed that there was some precise protocol for children to return to school. Yeah, it obviously doesn't exist. We are witnessing that now the school minister and the schoolchildren are discussing how they will measure the distance between students in school. That's what he does. Whether it's in centimeters or inches or something. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Yes, in such a situation, and such a situation gives birth to such packages. That's the situation. The government is acting in panic and confusion both in the response to the epidemic – we still have more than 2 000 daily infected people, as well as in these anti-Korona packages. Then the champion of New Slovenia boasts that almost every month he accepts one package. But these packages were disintegrated, and the contents were also mixed. This, however, can be illustrated by the words of the Legislative and Legal Service, which stated, inter alia, that "in certain system laws this law interferes with after it has already infringed several previous intervention laws. All of this reduces transparency, understanding, clarity of regulation, leads to a constitutionally unsustainable situation, as these laws regulate the rights and obligations of a wider circle of addressees who are increasingly difficult to understand their legal situation." Thus, in other words, the protection of trust in the principles of the rule of law and legal certainty has been violated. And this is an extremely sharp criticism of the Legal and Legal Service. But of course you don't hear it, and you don't care much about it either. That is why we are back on the question of the inadmissibility of the referendum on this package. Is it true that all the content of the law constitutes urgent measures that require the inadmissibility of the referendum. It is evident that no and that there are always some solutions that, by eliminating the consequences of both the epidemic and the economic crisis and any other crisis, have absolutely nothing to do with it. Because there is always abuse of the Institute of Inadmissibility of the Referendum and this expression of human will is practically completely out of the system, the list of these conclusions on the inadmissibility of the referendum does not support and will not be in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-30-SDZ8-Izredna-56.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Would you like a word from the government? No, no, no. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Is there any other interest after sharing time? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. We decide on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. 50 votes against 16. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 16.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 56th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly.
