ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 31st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I inform you that Mr Ivan Verzolak, Member of the National Assembly, died in 1992 to 1996. We'll honor his memory with a minute of silence. / minute silence/ I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Tina Heferle, Sam Bevk, Andreja Zabret, Franc Kramar, Brane Golubovich, Nina Maurovich. I invited Prime Minister Janez Ivan Janša and the candidates and candidates for Ministers and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the 1st item of the agenda. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 31st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Thursday 12 March 2020, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received a proposal to withdraw the agenda item or proposals to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 31st Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, it's on the presidential list of candidates for the government of the Republic of Slovenia. Pursuant to Article 112(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 229(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Janez Ivan Janša, proposed to the National Assembly the appointment of ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. He presented the list of candidates for ministers to the President of the National Assembly on 6 March 2020. The President of the Government therefore proposes to appoint Zvonka Černač as Minister without a Department responsible for Development and EU Cohesion Policy, Tomaž Gantar as Minister of Health, Aleš Hojsa as Minister of Home Affairs, Dr Helena Jaklitsch as Minister without a Department for Relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world, Boštjan Kortnik as Minister of Public Administration, mag. Mr Liljano Kozlovič, Minister of Justice, Janez Cigler King, Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Simono Kustec Lipicer, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Anžet Logar, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr. Aleksandro Pivec, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Zdravka Restorska, Minister of Economic Development and Technology, Dr. Vasko Simoniti, Minister of Culture, Mag. Mr Andrej Shirtzl as Minister of Finance, Mag. Matthew Tonin for the Secretary of Defense, Mag. Andrej Visiak as Minister of Environment and Space and Jernej Vrtovac as Minister of Infrastructure. I give the floor to Prime Minister Janez Ivan Janša to further explain the proposal for appointments.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u2	Dear Mr. President, the Honourable High Council! This will not be the usual additional explanation of the team’s proposal that the President of the National Assembly has just read and that you have been well acquainted with for the last four days at hearing sessions or at presentations on the home work bodies. Unfortunately, too, there is no time for a more detailed presentation of the measures arising from our coalition treaty, which I promised you at the time when you decided on my appointment, that this will be explained in more detail at the next stage of the formation of the government or the approval of the government in the National Assembly. We are all working together today on a more pressing matter, an epidemic has been declared, and probably there is no one in this room who would disagree with the need to devote every effort to it. However, this High Council will not be deprived of this debate because, in view of the situation as it is, even in the light of the revised macroeconomic forecast, the Government will be forced to come to you as soon as possible with a budget rebalance, and it will then be necessary to explain in more detail all the measures and also our objectives under the Coalition Treaty, which will certainly have to adapt time dynamics to the situations that arise and whose final consequences or effects can not be assessed with certainty at this time. A team waiting for your trust and for your confirmation – I also thank you for being expedient in these hearings, so that this meeting, which was planned for the next week, has already taken place today – a team that does not even have a formal confirmation, has been working to prepare for the first meeting of the Government, which will take place one hour after this vote, if positive, all those measures that need to be taken immediately or which should have been done long ago and which can enable the expansion of the coronavirus in Slovenia to slow down. It is no longer possible to stop it, nor is there any other European country or country, at least not on the western hemisphere, where this could actually be possible. It is only a battle with time and capacity, and this battle needs to be won as much as possible. In order for this to happen, consistent effective not only day-to-day coordination in Slovenia is necessary, first of all, with neighbouring countries where we have passed the exam in recent days, and also within the European Union, where the response of the competent institutions was, unfortunately, similar to those during the 2015 migration crisis, it is said when what is coming was underestimated and the reactions were also late, chaotic, uncoordinated, in particular without any strategic approach. This coordination at European level is now improving, and let us hope that certain measures or the certain solidarity we need at this time, as well as some other countries, can also be ensured within this framework. In recent weeks you have listened every day to how Slovenia has a plan for an epidemic, only to announce, then enter into force of the plan and everything will follow this plan. Slovenia has a national plan for the epidemic. I think it has been published on the website since 2017. But this is a plan for the flu epidemic. This epidemic, which was declared yesterday and before by the World Health Organisation, is of course not an epidemic of the flu. Certain consequences are similar when it comes to the functioning of society, and many measures are similar or the same, but not all the necessary measures that need to be implemented in this plan and which should already be implemented in order to be effective here. Now that we are in the process of complementing both the plans and the measures, of course, two things are being done at the same time. This is never an ideal situation. Some of the measures agreed, implemented or formally ordered were not implemented, even today, I think there was no health check at Ljubljana Airport, Jožet Pučnik Airport. It's probably the only airport in Europe without it. Even though formal conclusions have been adopted, we are in some specific position when a number of lines are not working. There's a traffic jam at the border. We should know that Serbia has closed the border, because then Croatia too, but we should react then. I believe that many in charge of this report have reported that only coordination here has not worked. And we've been doing all day now, we've got calls from the presidents of the governments, from Romania to Italy, where there are many things that Slovenia has been, I'll say, I have to do, it's necessary to do, but it wasn't done, so it's selective. It must be said, though, that many others in our neighborhood did not act in such a way that it would be safe for them and for their neighbors. That I'm going to cut the whole thing down. We have a time when three points will be critical in particular. The first is our ability to, hopefully, change our habits for a short time in order to drastically change our habits. You know from your normal life that this is the hardest thing to do when it comes to changing habits for a larger group, in this case for a nation, for a country, in fact for all of Europe, whose part we are, we are not separated from others with oceans, and that's where the virus comes across. In short, changing habits is crucial in this case. When it comes to the young generation, we say in this place, we've always pushed you away from phones and mobile devices, but now it's time for social networks, for social networking on the Internet, to hang out remotely. This is significantly safer than any form of association in these times. The harmful consequences, even though they are here, will be significantly smaller. So, from how we will be able to drastically change in the coming days and weeks, hopefully not for long, our habits will depend on how successfully we will slow down the spread of the virus in Slovenia. This will also depend on how much we will be able to show self-initiative, on self-initiative in the family, in the local community, in the congregation, in businesses, wherever we need to be organised in any way. There's probably no action to be taken here that can be faster than what we can do ourselves. Do not wait for someone to tell you, but now you must do so if there are general guidelines within which everyone with common sense can judge how to act in this situation. Let us not put too much burden on the already overburdened health system, which has problems with capacity and also with the organisation already in normal condition, and now it is going to be much worse in the coming days. It is being reorganised, the reorganisation has begun, and let us hope that it will be completed in time. The initiative of each and every one of us, especially decision makers at all levels, is most crucial in the coming days and weeks. Another such point is our ability or the ability of the competent in this case to increase the monitoring capacity, the capacity to test, detect, locate the spreads, although we have greatly missed the appropriate time here, but this is still the only way to know roughly how to set priorities, to know where to direct the resources, and not to overload the system that is here first in the reaction. And the third such a critical point is, according to experience from other countries, especially neighbouring countries, the care of the seriously ill, which is here a few percent in any case. We already have some in critical condition. This is not only about the health system being organised in this direction, it is also about the capacity for those who need the greatest care, and at least a few percent of these are very limited in Slovenia, and that at present there are simply no capacity in the market for certain funds or that the delivery hands are so long that they are practically nothing to help. I also appeal from this city to all our business partners abroad, our fellow citizens around the world, who have every opportunity to help us do so. The key is ventilators or respirators, devices that allow those who have major breathing problems due to this infection to receive oxygen and keep it alive. In a neighboring country, we monitor situations where doctors have to decide who they save their lives to, because they can't do it to everyone. I'm not gonna burden you with numbers, they're low. For example, compared to the United States, sometimes here we hear great criticisms of their health system, we have ten times fewer of these devices per capita. The team, which you will decide today without authorization, is preparing all day the measures that we will discuss at the government meeting, which will start an hour after the meeting if you confirm the team. Next week, let us hope that the situation will allow this to happen, there will certainly be a proposal for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to adopt certain intervention laws or measures already proposed by the already outgoing government, and it will probably be necessary to add a number of other measures, including preventive measures, in order not to bring down our financial and economic system, especially its vital parts, which we need most at this time. That's it. I apologize for not being able to fulfill the promise of the first stage of confirming this government, but in fact the situation is such that I appeal to all of us to devote ourselves to it. After all, it is not only the Government that is in this Chamber that we are all those who, regardless of political differences and the usual arguments – for all of this, will be called and responsible for our behaviour in this situation, so that the price of this epidemic will be as low as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u3	Thank you. In accordance with Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, candidates and candidates presented themselves to the competent working bodies and responded to questions raised by members and members of committees and by the Commission. Reports from the competent working bodies with opinions on the presentations of the proposed candidates and candidates have been received and published on the e-club. In accordance with the agreement of the 60th meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly on 12 March 2020, their presentation at the meeting of the assembly will not be carried out. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek, for her mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! The conditions currently facing the world and which have also greatly affected Slovenia are not negligible. They require crisis management, rapid response, a search for the right solutions. The current situation is actually the first test to show how successful and effective the new government team is. It is clear that there is no time for introduction and that the government must start its work immediately. In the SAB, we believe that Slovenia will be able to manage the situation, and together we must show constructive and state-of-the-art attitude in order to protect and protect our citizens. In the SAB, we have remained loyal to our constituents and the values we advocate. We will not support the government of Janez Janša. Nevertheless, as the opposition, we have offered a constructive attitude - with the new government we are ready to cooperate actively and constructively, provided, of course, that the lead party and its President will renounce certain controversial policies and actions that we have witnessed in the past. What we mean by that is that we have explained in detail when we appoint the President of the Government, so I would not repeat myself today. We certainly do not want to give up under the new government some of the fundamental values of our social state, these are strong and quality public education, accessible and effective public health, higher pensions and decent age, and respect for democracy and human rights. From this point of view, our expectations and demands are high and we will be unrelenting here. The substantive priorities of this government are clear and could not be avoided by any government. They relate in particular to health care, long-term care, affordable loans and housing, improving the standard of living of the elderly. The law, which would definitively regulate the area of long-term care, personal assistance and long-term care insurance, is one of the ones we have been waiting for too long. Over 15 years. It would increase the supply and accessibility of homes for the elderly and establish alternative long-term care systems such as residential communities for the elderly. In the SAB, we want each pensioner to be able to pay his pension in a home and quietly spend the fall of his life. This would also relieve the current and future working generation. It is unacceptable that Slovenia does not have a comprehensive long-term care system. Long-term care services, benefits and funding are covered by healthcare structures, social and parental care, pensions and invalidity pensions. Each of these forms is covered by specific legislation. Long-term care services are thus provided in the form of various public benefits. With regard to the wider health sector, the health department has received strong cash injections in recent years, but there has been no effect. The ceiling for this cashier has risen by €1.5 billion over the last 10 years, yet patients are often not receiving the care they urgently need and deserve. Patients should be the centre of health care. Citizens who conscientiously pay for medical bills rightly expect that the available health resources will be distributed in a way that ensures the highest quality, efficiency and responsibility in health care. The growing needs of the population for health services and, on the other hand, problems in the system and poor management of health care institutions are factors that add up. The sum of this sum is shown in long waiting lines that prevent the patient from coming to the investigation and treatment when he needs it. For the SAB, it is essential that the unacceptable waiting periods are reduced as soon as possible and that the money is followed by the patient and not thrown into the bottomless pit. Therefore, some kind of intervention law, which would allow, for a certain period and under clear conditions, the activation of all existing health facilities to reduce waiting species, will not be opposed to priori. But, as it is said, we will be an active and constructive opposition, which will keep a close eye on emerging changes and alert to moves that could endanger the existence of public health. We are convinced that public health is not the only one facing radical changes when the exercise is taken over by the new coalition. Reforms are also promising in the field of education. In the SAB we advocate a strong and high-quality public education that follows modern pedagogical reception and the rapid development of society. We oppose all measures that would weaken public education in the long term and put it in a worse position and lead to two types of schools – those for the rich and those for the poor. Maintaining a high-quality and accessible public education is one of the main priorities of the SAB Party, which we will not give up. For the Sab Party, policies against pensioners, I recall the ZUJF in the other Janša government, which has reduced pensions, and ask questions about public health, public education, the values of NOB, human rights, are not acceptable. For these reasons, we will not support the new government in the SAB Group. In doing so, I reiterate my regret that, before the key open challenges are resolved, the government team disbanded its Captain Marjan Sarec at the end of January, after the adoption of the largest two-year budget in our country's history and some of the most important laws have been drawn up for the benefit of the people. Let me add that even though we were a minority government, we had the potential to do what we did. Together with the votes of the Left, we would have 52 votes, just as much as the new coalition. Finally, there is no way to overlook the statement made by the SDS Member, now a candidate for the Minister of Finance, which is worth remembering. Mag. At a hearing before the Committee of the National Assembly, Andrej Shircelj said that the opposition's main objective was to overthrow the government. At the same time, we were appalled by the fact that it was clear why the SDS party acted as the largest opposition party, not to mention the impatient and often exclusive policy of the SDS, which, through social networks and favoured media, has repeatedly spread intolerance, false news and conspiracy theories. And I could count it. When it became clear that you would take power, your marriage proposals suddenly proved to be populist and inadequate. You started withdrawing them, and suddenly in some areas you took a different position. Another proof that the opposition can be a populist is that it is responsible to lead the government and to take into account the interests of all social groups. Unlike the SDS Party in the SAB, therefore, we do not intend to overthrow the new government, but we will support all its state-of-the-art measures, which will be in line with the values we represent and the promises we have made to the voters. We want the new government to overcome harmful divisions among people, not just the moment when we were hit by a new and unknown virus. We expect you to avoid completely challenging the credible state institutions, the hate speech and personal discredits of individuals and to act on the basis of compromises, integration and cooperation, especially for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. You have also provided this on several occasions when the new mandate holder is appointed. In the SAB, the new governments as the opposition party and, according to everything, we will not support it, but the new coalition we want a lot of success and tolerance. But we all have a lot of patience, solidarity and courage in fighting the Coronavirus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u5	Thank you. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u6	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the President of the Government, colleagues and everyone else in the Chamber! You could say that sometimes numbers and dates play with us. It was 13, when we received the 13th government, today it is again 13th, when we will elect the 14th government of the Republic of Slovenia. We hope that this time 13 will only bring happiness, wisdom and stability in the political and social sphere. If we stressed the importance of cooperation 18 months ago, especially since Slovenia had a minority government for the first time in history, this time we stress the importance of the previous responses and the important decisions. The latter are particularly important in the light of the latest health situation. Slovenia, like many other countries in the world, faces the presence of a new virus. Response and adoption of key actions in this area is now a priority for Slovenia, its authorities. We don't even want to think about the situation in which citizens and citizens would be in if they started a new electoral campaign in these days to offer such and other pre-election candy. Toying with the idea of early elections with the desire to punish their partners has proved more immature at the moment when it is important that authorities and competent institutions take appropriate decisions to ensure the health and proper treatment of the sick. As a solid coalition partner in the 13th government, we have worked hard to do our work properly, in a coherent, professional way, and in particular to ensure that the objectives of the coalition agreement are met, especially in important areas such as the rights of older and socially weaker groups. Our programming backgrounds and guidelines were also clear in the negotiations at the time. It is of paramount importance for us that the needs and rights of the older generation will be well represented in the new government. The content of the new coalition agreement thus includes commitments to bring the minimum pension for the full pension period closer to the poverty threshold in order to regulate widows and farmers' pensions in order to increase the rate of return to 63,5 %. We want to achieve this in four years, not six years. It is also important to eliminate the injustices caused by the lack of alignment of pensions in the past. We have warned about the construction of the homes that are needed for the elderly and the legal arrangements for the long-term care sector for many years, so this time too. We have also advocated the establishment of a demographic fund for a number of years, but we have been hearing too much in the last two governments, despite their promises. It's the commitment of our generation to the younger generation. We will also take a big step by setting up a government demography office. We know what results we have in this area or that our society is getting older. In the area of health, we will continue to work to ensure accessible and quality public health for all. We believe that this time the promises will also be fulfilled. At the hearing of ministers' candidates and candidates, we heard their ideas and professional views for the work of the executive apparatus in the future. Support was given to the competent committees of the National Assembly, in particular to the candidates of Desus Dr. Aleksandri Pivec and Tomaž Gantar. We are pleased that the candidate has convinced the members of the home work bodies with their expertise and respective competences. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has already successfully led the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in this mandate and has expressed its energy and approaches in the field with the utmost respect for the agricultural sector and individuals who are an important part of Slovenian agriculture. Tomaž Gantar has already served as Minister of Health, so he will certainly be able to take responsibility in this situation, in the last few days, for taking care of all citizens and citizens. The challenges of the new government in this relatively short period will not run out. They are so important that ministerial cities are occupied by individuals who will be designated, successfully and professionally led by the departments to which they will be appointed. In the Desus Group, we believe in the knowledge and experience of the ministerial team that is ahead of us today, so we will also unanimously support it. We wish you a success. Happy Slovenia!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u7	Thank you. The word is given by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors, Victory Jelinčič Nobleni.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u8	Good evening! The government takes power in times of emergency, and I think that's good because it's well-chosen. This is the opinion of the Slovenian National Party and I will also stand for it. The fact is that, and also our two Members, they convinced me of the ministers' presentations. Accurate, exact, right, with clearly set goals. We need such a government and such a government, I hope we get it today. The Slovenian national party will support all proposals aimed at the welfare of the country and its citizens. After all, the orientations of the current government are in many ways similar or almost identical to those of the Slovenian National Party, so that we can only support what they have said. However, this does not mean that we will not be critical of any matter. We'll be critical, we'll warn, we'll send questions from Members, initiatives and something like that. So we will certainly not be silent and will not be silenced because we have never been silenced. We won't be now. But I think it'll be more about cooperation than anything else. With the new government, we are convinced that it is a desire to regulate the situation in our country. It's gonna work a lot. I think it is a desire to clear up the affairs that are huge in Slovenia, not only in the last term, but in the mandates before. After all, there was a lot of cover under the rug. That needs to be explained. This should be explained that Slovenia will be able to move forward so that there will not always be any millstones hanging around our necks with billions of Iranian money, pouring a nonsatisfying hole in banks, pouring in insatiable holes in some drug dealer's medical equipment and so on. Surely this government also sees a desire to process the culprits for the disappearance of money, for overpaid items, for overpaid purchases. After all, if we look at a police helicopter, we see that the difference is a few million euros that we have paid more than the helicopter price on the company's website that manufactures these helicopters. It will certainly be necessary to review all overpayments of orders, and I do not think that the Minister of Health will be running out of work. After all, it will be difficult for him, because he will be flaunted by all possible merchants, blackmailed, pressured, but I am sure he will have an absolute disappointment with the current government. When he was a minister, he didn't have that shock. Now I hope and I mean, I'm sure he'll have this support and he'll be able to do what he's supposed to do as minister. At this time, the problem is the Coronavirus and today you can see how foolish the previous governments started with the Slovenian economy and destroyed our self-sufficiency. Sugar factory went to hell, Tosama doesn't do masks anymore, if I say a little bit like that, agriculture is sad, 40, 50 %, maybe we're covering up, the rest we have to export some of the chemical preparations of peppered peppers, salad and anything. There's also livestock farming on the dog, so I'm not talking about a pig that's practically gone. It's someone's fault. And this will have to be brought to the table. Ask those who are guilty of what they did or why they did something different from what they should have done. Probably not for free. That's what people think, and I think a lot of people even talk about what went into whatever pockets and so on. There are quite a few sources that will be involved in all these research, and of course they will have to work hand in hand. I'm sure that's what's gonna happen. As far as the coronavirus is concerned, that's right. There's no need for panic. We don't need to panic, we can work calmly, lightly as health institutions tell us to. Sticking to what is prescribed means that we will not go to different associations and to where there are more than a hundred people. In this way we will also see that there will be no demonstrations along the roads because there are usually more than a hundred people there. That's what they say if they go, they'll get infected and then land somewhere else. Once again, with the virus without panic. Disinfect yourself from the outside and from the inside, but have sex from the back.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u9	The Italian and Hungarian national communities, Felice Žiža, have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u10	Honourable President of the National Assembly, thank you for your word! Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Egregio Presidente della Camera di Stato, Grazie per la password. Tiste Hölgyim és Uraim! The Italian and Hungarian National Community Group supports the list of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Member of the Italian and Hungarian national communities cannot invite an integral part of the government coalition because of their mission, but good cooperation with the Government is essential for ensuring and implementing the protection of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities and their members in the Republic of Slovenia. We therefore expect the new government to play an active role in bridging the gap between the provisions of the Constitution, the individual acts, the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the generally applicable principles of international law, the ratified multilateral and bilateral international treaties and the laws on the protection of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities and their implementation in practice, including in the development of these indigenous national communities in areas such as the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities. These include measures to preserve the linguistic and cultural identity, cultural heritage, history and customs of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities and their members in this specificity of the national mixed area. The public use of the Italian and Hungarian languages in these areas is one of the fundamental minority rights, and we therefore expect the consistent implementation of constitutional and legal provisions in this area, as well as the upgrading of the bilingual operation of the state and municipal administrations, the judiciary, the other public sector, the holders of public powers and other persons of public law in the territory of the municipalities in which the said national communities live. The public use of the Italian and Hungarian languages in those areas is linked to the development of the educational system, information and media activities, cultural activities and scientific research in the mother tongue. The creation of a system of economic foundations of indigenous national communities with the care of their staff is very important for their existence and development and for the development of the municipalities and regions in which both communities live, and for their cross-border cooperation with the home country and the indigenous Slovenian national community in Italy and Hungary. In addition, we expect the development of these regions, where agriculture and the traditional method of sea fishing also belong. The new government is set up ahead of difficult times due to the close Presidency of Slovenia in the Council of the European Union and also due to the already mentioned coronavirus, due to brexitity, the cooling of the economy of important Slovenian foreign trade partners and the possible new wave of mass migration. We are prepared to participate actively in the Italian and Hungarian Group of Members of the National Community, both in this Presidency and in all good projects and legislation. We wish the government great happiness and success and good and coordinated cooperation with our parliamentary group and with the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u11	Thank you. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, colleague Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! We will therefore confirm the 14th Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the light of the very difficult health situation tonight. Given the situation, it was, of course, the most responsible and also the only reasonable and correct decision to vote on the government on the same day after the hearings were concluded, not just in the next week as originally envisaged. Especially in such situations, the country needs a full operational government immediately, with all the powers to take important measures to protect its citizens as soon as possible. For citizens, however, this moment is most important to make them feel safe. Therefore, immediate action towards halting the epidemic is now logical in the first place among all measures and priority activities, in particular all those ministries which are linked to the infestation and then also to remedy the effects of the coronavirus or covid-19. When the life of all of us, let us also hope that, as soon as possible, it will somehow return to a more normal situation, we will begin to implement the commitments of the coalition treaty in an accelerated manner. The parties that make up the new coalition first to the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, have forwarded the names of the candidates whom they consider appropriate for the administration of the ministerial function. In doing so, they have also assumed their share of the responsibility for the success of the new government. This week, the proposed candidates for ministers presented themselves to the competent committees and received the necessary support or green light on their home work bodies. As a last resort, today the candidate for the Minister of Culture and Slovenians has also been presented in place and around the world. This means, of course, that candidates are willing to take part in key problems that need to be addressed or addressed in their ministerial departments and are specifically listed in the coalition contract for each ministry. It is right that we know that the new government will have only a half-term before it, which at the same time begins in an extremely difficult and difficult situation. Therefore, some of the content that we are defending in our own programmes could not be included in the measures of the coalition contract, but we have sought a common intersection to implement those projects and those content or solutions that all coalition parties agree on. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are happy and also pleased that we have all been ready to put enough effort and will together in this short time to now unitedly support the solutions that citizens urgently need. For example, no new home for the elderly has been built for 12 years, so it is important that the coalition contract states that it will also start with the construction of new homes and that the funds should be provided both by reallocation of budgetary resources and by raising the averages of municipalities and other forms of funding. It was mentioned earlier that it will be established or already known – several times already said – the establishment of the Slovenian Demographic Pension Fund. It is important that this fund is based in Maribor. This is a major decentralisation. I also believe that such a fund will make an important contribution to improving the situation of older people or pensioners. Then here we have an increase of 63.5 % and an additional extraordinary harmonisation of pensions. I would also like to highlight some of the actions of the various competent ministries, which are enshrined in the Coalition Treaty and which have also been pointed out by candidates for ministers on the competent committees. The decentralisation mentioned above and consistent regional development. Therefore, Slovenia will be able to develop more evenly – both economically, economically and culturally. The Government will therefore prepare the basis for investment in cultural infrastructure and encourage private sector investment in sport through tax incentives. At the same time, the autonomy of the congregations will be strengthened. Another matter that is certainly very important is the renovation of housing policy. It will go towards an increase in the rental housing fund, with a focus on young and young families. Establishment of a system source for housing construction and raising real estate budget resources for housing construction throughout Slovenia. In parallel, it will work to accelerate the modernisation and new construction of rail infrastructure. This will allow faster movement of traffic to Ljubljana, and thus make it necessary for employees and students in Ljubljana to rent and purchase properties exclusively in the capital, of course at twice the price of elsewhere. We will reintroduce a free kindergarten for another child and further and adoption of a universal child allowance. In the field of health, we have been waiting for a long-term care law for about 16 years. Establish effective measures to reduce waiting lines. There are still a huge number of people in Slovenia waiting for a doctor or a specialist. If we look at the agricultural area, I would like to highlight, above all, the incentives for maintaining family farms. Very important. Then measures to increase self-sustainment. Even today, this shows how important self - care is. And more specific supervision in preventing abuses in the processing, labelling and sale of food. As we look at the environment, the problem of waste storage and disposal has been increasing lately, which, of course, requires an effective system. In the area of justice, in particular, I should point out the establishment of specialised courts to prosecute the most serious forms of economic crime and the reform of insolvency law. The area of internal policy – at the moment certainly the most important effective protection of the state border, consistency of respect for the asylum rate and prevention of its abuses. If we look at foreign policy – strengthening Slovenia's reputation in Europe and the world, strengthening cooperation with Slovenian scientists, researchers, culturers and entrepreneurs living abroad and, of course, also in Slovenia. Enhancing the credibility of the country in the European Union and the relation to NATO, and that, as the candidate for the Minister of Foreign Affairs said at the hearing, Slovenian foreign policy will have a re-thinking, coordinated and unified voice. In summary, the fundamental common objectives of the coalition and the new governments are to ensure the fair and effective functioning of the state; to establish such a system of pension and health insurance based on fairness and intergenerational solidarity; to strike a balance between the social state on the one hand and the market economy on the other; to strengthen Slovenian and European identity, while working towards the successful application of Slovenia in the wider international environment on the basis of national objectives and the common European external and security policy; to establish such measures as should be aimed at a healthy, friendly living environment, in a sustainable and coherent regional development, in a debarractisation, we have repeatedly discussed this in the National Assembly, and the more effective functioning of the public sector, which must be for people, in particular the economy, and not in any way hampered. Your Honor! At the same time, in the second half of 2021, Slovenia's half-year presidency of the Council of the European Union awaits us. In 2008, we were faced with this great challenge for the first time, and we also successfully carried it out. Those of us who were then in the legislative or executive branch know how difficult this task was. However, with competent, capable and experienced people and young talented individuals who have been given the opportunity at different levels, we have proved that we can successfully meet such a challenging challenge. The international public also said that Mr Janez Janša, the President of the Council of the European Union at the time and current President of the Government, had made the Presidency of the Council of the European Union a medal. The experience gained during the first Presidency and the direct experience that some today's candidates have with this is undoubtedly an additional guarantee that the second Presidency will be successful. Our common goal must be to re-establish Slovenia's reputation in the international space and restore its credibility, which is essential for the establishment of strategic positions in the global or international space. The first EU Council Presidency was marked by real integration and cooperation. And it was these two that led to the crucial work of the government of Janez Janša in 2004-2008. Through the Development Partnership, we have coordinated and, together with the opposition, adopted a large number of laws aimed at improving the situation of citizens. And this practice, respected colleagues and colleagues, today we can confidently say it and claim it, has proved to be good. It's a shame she didn't go on under all the governments. But today is once again an opportunity to revive similar cooperation. Therefore, in this time government or coalition, we will also, of course, invite the opposition to form systemic solutions of a long-term nature to cooperate. So everyone is welcome with their own made suggestions. We have before us a list consisting of both individuals who were already ministers and those who do not yet have this direct experience with the ministry, but have the energy and the necessary knowledge to deal with the challenges ahead. Despite an extremely aggressive attempt to ensure that these four parties who form a coalition, namely SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus, could not be linked – we are talking here about the use of majority media, the degradation of Members by social networks, organised meetings, media substantiations and more – although these four parties have managed to form a coalition. And I believe it's a solid coalition. And I believe that in the desire to really do a lot of good for Slovenia. And one more thing. How important it is that you have a President of the Government who knows what he is doing, who is determined in his work and has all the necessary authority, to see right now in the situation we are in. Clear guidelines, rapid and deliberate measures and self-responsible behaviour are key in the light of the situation that exists due to the expansion of the coronavirus or covida-19. Dear Members, honourable Members, the list of candidates for ministers, which has been invested in the National Assembly, will be broken down in the Slovenian Democratic Party. At the same time, we want the new ministers and the President of the Government to face the new, most challenging challenges successfully and to have people's well-being and work for the common good in front of them all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca, for her colleague Igor Pecek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The process of establishing and appointing a new government is, above all, the last days in the shadow of events that are unfortunately dictated by the new coronavirus. The government, which concludes its mandate today and is expected to carry out only ongoing business since the resignation of Prime Minister Marjan Šarc, has had full powers to act on the situation and has done so until now. Yesterday, for reasons of ease and speed, it declared an epidemic. The President of the Government, Mr Marjan Šarec and Minister Aleš Šabeder, together with the team, had only one goal to ensure that the Government, through its actions, effectively protects our citizens and citizens and, to the very least, affects the Slovenian economy. We are aware that the situation in the country is serious and that it is one of the biggest trials in the history of Slovenia. In the light of this, the Government, which concludes its mandate today, has informed the incoming Government in recent days and has also participated with it in the adoption of measures to slow the spread of the new coronavirus. We are aware of the importance of getting a new government as soon as possible in the Group of Members of the Letter of Marjan Šarc, so today we have reduced our debate on the new government to a minimum. We do not want this night meeting and the rapid appointment of a new government to the wish of a new coalition to create needless impressions of emergency situations in the public or that the Government of Marjana Sarca does not manage the difficult current situation. Of course, in a situation where we are currently in need of rapid action, rapid action must also be proportionate, weighty and thoughtful. At this very moment, we also need to think about what will happen the day after. Our society, the economy and the country as a whole will have to work as well as it does now in the future. We must all have this common goal ahead of us all the time. Regardless of all, the most important part of this is the participation of all of us, and we will participate in the letter of Marjan Šarc as long as it is for the benefit of our people. This also answers all of our critics who have given us exemption. In doing so, we want to show that in the Party of Marjana Sharca we will be a real constructive opposition, which will be critical in times when and when our principles, the well-being of our country and fundamental democratic values are threatened. Dear colleagues and colleagues, tonight we will confirm the ministerial team of the 14th Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The main reason for the participation of new coalition parties is that the state cannot wait any longer for the most urgent projects in the field of demographic trends, health, housing policy, business environment and the like. All the main actors advocated that the new government should be formed on real content or on concrete projects to be carried out during the remainder of this mandate. Unfortunately, all of this has been a poor journey since the hearings of ministers, where the presentations of some ministerial candidates were very general, substantively unrelated and without clear financial assessments of the plans. Our specific questions as to how individual ministers will make commitments under the coalition treaty, which, although very generally written down, have not been answered by a large majority of the candidates for ministers. We have not received any answers to the questions about the financial evaluation of individual measures or where certain funds will be taken from. Unfortunately, some of the candidates' presentations are considered bad. However, we are also concerned about some of the views expressed and about the fact that in the presentations certain candidates were already overly concerned with the reasons and concerns that their work would be hampered. One such is also regrettably the position of the candidate for the Minister of the Interior, who has identified people to be good and less decent on the basis of nationality, while the legitimate concern is that the candidate is a media director who spreads hate and false news and is being investigated by the police or the National Investigation Office because of suspicion of controversial funding. We were further surprised by the statements made by some future ministers, who spoke very easily about the exclusion of individual professional groups from the single wage system in the public sector without realizing the consequences that such behaviour could have in the area of public finances. It should be borne in mind that if we exclude an army from the single pay system, the police, health workers, schoolchildren will first want it, leading to the collapse of the pay system and the salary burden will increase significantly. We were also disappointed by the contradictory and reckless statements made by the Defence Minister, who initially invited members of the Wards into the military and denied this statement at the same hearing. Such a performance does not bring good travel. Above all, we are concerned that the candidate for the Minister of Finance, who must be the Ombudsman and the one who watches over the use of public money and ensures the financial stability of Slovenia, cannot assess the financial effects of the coalition contract if it is too general and, on the other hand, can say very clearly and accurately that the state budgets for 2020 and 2021 350 million deficits. Such statements are unresponsibly irresponsible, populist and misleading. Let us recall why when the SDS was in opposition, when it proposed laws that had a high negative financial impact on public finances, it was rather inconceivable that, because the opposition's fundamental objective was to demolish the government. The main objective of the opposition is to watch over the functioning of the coalition, to ensure constructive cooperation in things that are good for our citizens, and to make quality alternative proposals that can contribute to the well-being of our country. We believe that this is the task of a genuine state-of-the-art opposition, while this perception of the opposition represents an unstated and irresponsible opposition that aims instead of debilitatingly weakening public finances and disrupting the stability of the state. Although both the SDS and the NSI have both withdrawn their positional laws, which would mean a very high loss of revenue in the state budget, now that they have begun to form a government, we are fortunately concerned about such action when they have allowed any funds to be used to promote and demolish the government. In the letter of Marjan Šarc, this is how we cannot land our thinking. We are aware that policy must be responsible and state-efficient, whether you are in the government or in the opposition. However, during the hearings of the candidates for ministers, we were able to hear good performances. The Minister of Economy, as well as the candidate for the Minister of Environment, was responsible in a precise and concrete manner, inter alia, for the transfer of land from DUTB to the housing fund or to the country, as we also advocated in the List of Marjan Šarc. As we say, there have been some good ideas and plans that we agree with in our party, such as the construction of five homes for older people and measures in the field of infrastructure and justice. However, there is still a key answer to the question of how we will achieve this. I hope we get that answer and find it as soon as possible. In doing so, we will look closely at you as the opposition. We will ensure that good ideas do not get bad performances, and we will pay attention to how much, where, where, where and where you will give them. We expect that you will take care of the whole and not just partial interests by means of measures. Your Honor! In addition to the measures promised in the Coalition Treaty, you will need to ensure effective action against the spread of the Coronavirus in the coming weeks. Our government, in cooperation with professional measures so far, has set a good example, and we call on you to continue this same path in good faith. We are also generously advising that the new government team be aware of the importance that individual ministers, either as a government or as a government, as a whole, do not be intimidated by their statements, actions and actions. Panic at times like this doesn't help. We know that the day will come when the virus will be defeated and the consequences will remain in different areas. How powerful these consequences will affect our lives will depend primarily on the actions of the government and each one of us. And if we know anything about the virus today, it is that this global pandemic will affect lower economic growth and thus the well-being of our country. It is therefore important for the Government to include all relevant stakeholders when taking measures, to take reasonable and proportionate measures, and to bear in mind, in doing so, the adoption of measures to prevent our country from slipping into recession. It must not happen that people feel the consequences of quick and not sufficiently deliberate moves after years when the virus has long been defeated and forgotten. It should not be repeated in 2007 and 2012. We will therefore continue to participate in the preparation and adoption of the necessary measures to combat the spread of the virus in the opposition in the List of Marjan Šarc. As the opposition, we will also monitor closely the other decisions of the Government, which could have a long-term negative impact on life and work in our countries, as the public will probably not be so careful about this because of the coronavirus. Last but not least, we also wish the Minister of Health to have an excellent degree of perseverance. Minister Aleš Šabeder has shown that dedication, expertise and involvement can do much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The outgoing government is handing you over to a financially stable country. It leaves you a country where freedom of thought, plurality and freedom of the media, human rights and democratic values count most. The country where public health works and is doing a lot of work these days. From you and the new government, we expect you not to waste this on trusting the profession, trusting the healthcare staff, civil protection and other structures. Only together can we effectively overcome this threat. This site also includes thanks to health professionals, police officers and other public officials and to all members of the Civil Protection Service for their work so far. Finally, on behalf of the Group of Members, I should also like to thank the President of the Government, Mr Marjan Šarc, and all ministers and their secretaries of state for their good work. The new government, despite our lack of support for the ministerial team, which we have explained, we want much success and all good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u16	Honourable President of the Government, honourable Members and Members, distinguished candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers, dear citizens and citizens! We Social Democrats have sought to ensure that until now, this is the 13th Slovenian government working towards regular elections and that it is effective. Unfortunately, they wrote the story differently. Nor was the election of Prime Minister Janez Janša with the votes of the Social Democrats. Nor will this government, which will be elected today, be the government elected by the Social Democrats. However, as soon as this government is elected, there will be a 14th Slovenian government. This, ladies and gentlemen, I speak because it is time to forget that we are a coalition or opposition, when we forget that we are different political parties, when the time is when we forget also what we are fighting, and when a new epidemic is passing through Slovenia, is when we act effectively, when we act unitedly and when we act in solidarity. I want to say right away that this is not the first epidemic to move through Slovenia, Europe or the world, and probably not the last one. We're gonna beat this epidemic like the rest of us. What we need to do is do everything we can to make as few sacrifices as possible. All of our actions, too, can be excessive, must be geared towards protecting human health and protecting people's lives. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the two today, Minister Aleš Šabedr and Mrs Nina Pirnat, who runs the National Institute for Public Health, because until now the measures have largely been applied to these two persons. But there were a lot of people who participated, people in the government, experts and, in particular, people in health care. I also want to thank all these people. In particular, it is a great gratitude to all citizens and citizens who have followed professional advice. Taking professional advice, including the maximum possible contact between people, does not only mean that we protect our health, but more importantly, we protect those who are the most vulnerable. I believe, respected and respected, that this will be done in the future. Probably, today has been announced, we will get new measures that we will respect, which we will implement. The fact that there may be no maximum effects in the first and second weeks after today is no cause for alarm, this is the natural course of the epidemic. All measures to be implemented will deliver results in two, three or four weeks. And I believe we'll make it. But here, I would like to draw your attention, Your Honor, to something else. When we defeat the epidemic, we will still have people who will need our solidarity. Because of the economic, financial situation, many families, some individuals, will need help, and we need to provide it. I now announce here that such assistance will be provided, such laws will have the support of the Social Democrats. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Social Democrats will not talk about ministers and ministers who will be elected today. There will be time for this debate. We're not going to talk about the new government programme. There will be time for this debate. I call on you to be united, to be solidarity and to win this fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u17	Thank you. The word is given by the MP Group of the Modern Centre Party, a colleague of Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u18	Today's position I wanted to start with a political assessment of the current situation and at the same time an analysis of the reasons why we are receiving the new Slovenian government today. Right now, more than ever at a time when Slovenia needs a solid and stable government, it has proved that the decision on the rapid formation of the new coalition was still important. It is difficult to imagine the state in which our country would be, and consequently our citizens and citizens, if we were at this time in preparation for the new early elections. But I would rather start with the thoughts that are for citizens and citizens today, for the Modern Centre Party and for Members and Members of our Group of Members. When last year's end was followed by the first frightening reports on the new virus in China, it rarely lit a red light because of the potential threat to our environment. The crown virus seemed to many, unfortunately for too long, an internal Chinese problem. The information that soon showed that the world’s largest country has been affected by the unknown virus in such a violent way because the authorities underestimated the medical professions, we have already read with slightly greater concern. At the same time, we wondered how Slovenia would be able to respond to such a virus. The intense spread of the virus to the West coincided with the resignation of the Slovenian Prime Minister. The fight for the interpretation of the blame for his resignation was fought, and it all pointed out that there is a period of several months ahead of us when the country could be free running due to the new early elections and without strong operational leadership. The arguments that we have consistently repeated to those we have advocated for the formation of a new majority in the National Assembly have been lost in the wind of accusations and insults. In the Modern Centre Party, we have repeated the reasons why our party did not adopt the popular idea of new elections. We repeated them to people who know us in our home environment and not just on TV screens. People who, like us, look at politics through prisms of ideas and ideology, see faces first and often judge by them in politics. We didn't convince them, we only told them what convinced us. The fall of the 13th Slovenian government cannot and must not be the fall of Slovenia. The account for policy incompetence must not land in the postal and electronic mailboxes of citizens and citizens. When we first uttered those words, we did not imagine that in a few weeks we would feel cruel to each other and to each other. The Korona virus has not only exposed the health vulnerability of Slovenia, it has also exposed the vulnerability of the top of the outgoing government. Ideological concerns, which were enhanced when we decided to join the 14th Slovenian government in the SMC, had to be put in the background. Above all, we did what we wanted each other to do if he were in our place. In order to identify the moment when all politics is over. And today is the moment. Our heart is beating for Slovenia. For a country with the most beautiful anthem in the world. For the country of the most beautiful views and with the best water. For a home we wouldn't trade with anyone else in the world. Today, this country is in the midst of a major but still manageable health challenge. Today we need to be more aware of the importance of public health than ever before. The tests include vital state systems – from economy to educational institutions and transport connections. There is also the conscience and conscience of people under test. Humanity is on trial. As a result of the increasing number of infected and sick, we can no longer avoid it. But we can still influence how we measure them and how we control them. That is why, in our firm conviction today, we are not only voting on the new government. Today we are also voting on the opportunity to deal with and contain the crisis due to the coronavirus. We give decision-making power to people who have more than one political campaign behind them. We give it to experienced operatives who are never seen or experienced by crisis management. And we trust it with politicians who know that they no longer count the word in the crisis, but only decisive and swift action. We wish that the work of the future government, which begins in difficult situations, will soon be evaluated with excellence and confidence that it will be part of all the other key challenges facing Slovenia in the future. The circumstances of this government do not devote a hundred days to peace, and the weeks before it are the weeks when its courage, response, public relations, operational ability, leadership skills and, above all, the sense of people’s needs will be tested. SMC proposes to the government a team of people who can distinguish between a time when politics is at stake and a time when there is something much bigger, more absolute and more valuable in the game: our lives and our security. Now is the time. Therefore, there is no doubt that the SMC will be on the side that is aware of this and also of the application. In the coming days and weeks, let the greatest measure of reason, sobriety and stability prevail, and let the health of all of us, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia be in front of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Left Group, for which Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u20	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! A good week ago, two things were highlighted in the position of the Group on the proposal of the mandate-holder, among other things. For the first time, how is the whole purpose and purpose of Mr Janš and his SDS merely and exclusively to come to power, no matter what. Secondly, with the help of opportunism by some parties and the fear of early elections, he managed to form a new coalition that would continue past governments' failed policies. At that time, we pointed out that all of this was happening in a force of worrying situations and circumstances that would ultimately give him legitimacy to develop his autocratic potential. You will today crown the new government, which is facing an emergency situation, on the one hand the threat of Turkish border opening and, on the other hand, the threat of the expansion of the coronavirus. As extraordinary a situation as he has tried in the past, he will not have to create at all, since they are practically already here. Your Honor! We're living in a dangerous time. At a time when general panic and hysteria are slowly spreading, we decide about a government that promises nothing good. The fact that the SDS is a perfect battle for power and regardless of the price, at the hearing before the committee, the candidate for Finance Minister, Mr Andrej Šircelj, was noteworthy. In the face of proposals made by the SDS as an opposition for the benefit of the people, they distanced themselves inversely as far as the authorities approached. Mr Shircelj explained freely the intent and manner of his client's operation. Look, the main goal of the opposition is to overthrow the government. In short, all the proposals made by the SDS as an opposition party, which, as they then claimed and promised, brought higher wages, greater prosperity, lower taxes, were nothing more than a simple bluff. As soon as they approached the authorities, as soon as they had the opportunity to actually implement those measures, they gave up and abandoned them. Is that fair to citizens? Is this after all fair to SDS voters and voters? We can understand this in a different way than the fact that the sole purpose and purpose of this party is to come to power. In this battle for power, we cannot expect substantial changes, neither in technology nor in the direction of this rule. We cannot simply dismiss all the wrong policies that we have seen in the past governments of John Janša since the privatisation and overheating of the economy in the first term, and the same pattern has been shown there. Until they were in power, they appeared as fighters against the tycoons when they came to power, and it was the tycoons who had just experienced their golden age with the Buyback Act and with the accelerated sale of state-owned companies to the Taiwanese network. These policies continued for these purposes even more favourable times, during the economic crisis, in another Janša government. Again, the main objective was to consolidate power through economic levers. As a control of the economy, they tried to ensure by creating emergency situations, calling a threesome, and setting up a bad bank. In the public sector, however, they have opened up a space for forgiving and disciplining opponents by introducing Zujf. In the end, the victim of this struggle for power was once again a country. When we recovered after the crisis in 2011 and growth was forecasting, Janša’s policy pushed us into a second recession, from which we only got out at the end of 2014. When he was able to save the recession, he deepened it even further. But once again, this time these extraordinary situations do not have to be created because they are already here. It'll just have to be sharpened. The new prime minister does not say in vain about the external enemy that we are at war, his media network, from Nova 24 to the distributors of false news on social networks, from the beginning of the session of panic. During the last week, the new government, which had failed twice, repeatedly had a face - to - face smile. And for a reason. Although they failed twice because they had to create emergency situations on their own, this time they have all the circumstances that work for them. We know the objective: to implement an authoritarian conservative regime following the example of Orbanov Hungary in our country, which was clear in some of the presentations of ministerial candidates. Orban's shadow of autocratism is the most obvious, clear, in the field of repressive apparatus, military and police. Mr Hojs, Minister of the Interior, has made a very precise prediction of what he is going to do. We will seal all borders Hermetically, give more powers to the police, reduce privacy and start establishing a police state. We can also expect a sharp fight against all external enemies. Now they are mainly refugees and foreign workers who are supposed to exploit the asylum and social system. The already disputed asylum and foreign legislation will further exacerbate, although it is already below the European minimum. This virus, which was substantiated in the hearings of the candidates, is thus not just a health problem, it appears and will prove to be, above all, a social problem. We will, of course, survive the virus situation, it will disappear, the problem is that the virus will go away, and the measures will remain. If the new government completely halts public life in the country, as it has predicted since yesterday, and has also introduced extraordinary measures to comply with the rules, we can therefore expect that part of these measures, once the epidemic is over, will remain in force, even after the epidemic, part of the emergency measures will still be in force. Similarly, in the area of defence, where the idea of recruitment is still alive and in which highways do not hide their ambitions. Even now, military service is advertised with a password — patriotism and tradition. The requirement to include all young people in this is based on the mistrust of such freeways in young people. They think they're too patriotic, so just before they grow up, we'll try to squeeze them into the mold in a few months, according to our pattern. We're going to make too many free-thinking boys into patriotic men protected by tradition. This is an idea that does not consider that a country might try to earn loyalty and respect, gain better social security, affordability of well-paid services, accessibility of housing, equal opportunities for education and so on. No, no, no. The loyalty of young people would rather be ensured by autocrats instilling military discipline. Since the idea of recruiting is probably not a short-term project, Mr Tonin, and here I must point out that this is the same Mr Tonin who declared himself a middle man six months ago – he would have included representatives of paramilitary formations, so-called guards, in order to protect the border more effectively with all means. This is where everyone with at least a little historical memory should ring all the alarms. At a time when there are still 268,000 people living under the risk of poverty in Slovenia, among them there are 90,000 pensioners, 52 thousand workers, and 45 thousand children, the future Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs in his presentation and he does not address poverty, which is not mentioned even once in the coalition contract. The phenomenon that should not have occurred in the European country in the middle of the 21st century will not be solved by simply shutting it down. In his presentation, the future minister, who was supposed to guide labour policies, also did not highlight the problem of leniency and exploitation of workers, although the pre-carnation and segmentation of work in combination with inadequate supervision and related exploitation, unfair competition and social dumping are the main problems in the field of labour in Slovenia. It is clear, however, that we will see a gradual transition of social policy into a family policy that will clearly grow to the first. At the same time, he did not forget to point out his position, as did his client colleague Tonin, that he was opposed to the right to an abortion, although the government was not supposed to open the issue. We'll see. Nor can we expect serious concern for the environment and the craftsmen. Mr Vizjak, the candidate for the Environment Minister, climate change, unlike some of his client colleagues, does not deny it, although he leaves open the possibility that other factors, natural cycles, not just human CO2 emissions, may actually be responsible for this, and argues that there is no scientific consensus on this. Really? If there's a scientific consensus about something, it's climate change. This consensus is 97% and nowhere else in science will you find such a high. In a kind of paradoxical way, you're the conservatives who are the most endangered way of life as we know it. If you continue to warm the atmosphere with your irresponsible policy, as Mr Vizjak predicts, and pretend that there is no problem, the European way of life you say you are defending will be among the first to be wiped out of the face of the Earth. In 2020, which started as some sort of Hollywood film disaster, we can see clearly how quickly our way of life is affected by changing the conditions of our stay. Today it is a virus, tomorrow it can be a shortage associated with the collapse of ecosystems, it can be large migrations because parts of the Earth will become non-inhabitable, or political and military conflicts for natural resources. With your irresponsibility to the future, you will literally push the younger generation into this post-apocalyptic world. Why? Because the 97% consensus isn't enough for you? Or is it because you do not have the courage to cope with the climate and environmental crisis and because it is easier to pretend that there is no problem because this disaster has not yet reached your door? Finally, in the field of health, the Minister's candidate has actually expressed directly what is stated in the coalition contract between the lines. In a time of crisis, when public health is the most under attack, we would like to see a gradual privatisation of the health system involving all available human resources. Only after the Coronavirus crisis will we see, in Italy it is now clear how important it is to have a strong and functioning public health system. Therefore, all efforts should be made to strengthen this system, not to weaken, to exhaust, and to divert funds to private people. These are just some of the patterns of this emerging government. Let us go back to the point — to rulership and power. In the introduction, I mentioned the extraordinary circumstances we are facing. Even in this place, it is more than obvious that the fight for power is more important than the epidemic we are facing. We live in times of exceptional circumstances, we close borders, public institutions, schools, kindergartens, there are calls for as much as possible to stop public life, even the National Assembly passes to minimum establishments next week. And what does the commissioner do? Tweeta, citing press conferences, acts as if his third government already exists, his parallel government is already working and thus contributes to the spread of concerns and panic. The appearance of the coronavirus in our country is now the only topic in the country. And it's the same because it's a mortally serious subject. This is an outstanding challenge for public health and also a challenge to the quality of life of people, and in particular those who belong to the most vulnerable groups. In dealing with the epidemic, everyone should be sober and responsible. We must remain calm, prudent, and the state must ensure that there is no panic and chaos. We need to stay human. And if ever there was a time for solidarity and a sense of community, it is now. In this place, I must also thank the outgoing team, which has so far faced the management of this crisis, first and foremost Minister Šabedra, the National Institute for Public Health and also Prime Minister Sarc. Their work has already been discredited in the media, although it was clear that they were improvisations and how they were not supposed to be because of exceptional circumstances, they have acted soberly, calmly, prudently over the last week. It would make sense for a new coalition to continue this work. Last but not least, it keeps someone from the old team temporarily, but not that the work that's just glass completely shuts down and starts again. But more than anything, it's obvious that they're in a crazy hurry to take power. According to the outgoing Prime Minister, they are in such a hurry that the new Minister of Health, who will have to enter Šabedro's shoes today, who will play a key role in the further face of the crisis, has not even been on some of the handovers between the old and the future governments. I can't explain it any differently than they don't rush to power because of public health concerns as they rush to explain it all the time. If we judge them after the past operation, we can conclude, first and foremost, that they are in a hurry to avoid being credited by the public to anyone else for the resolution of the crisis. But don't worry, the first on behalf of the truth will make sure it doesn't happen, and that the new statesmen will finally be able to come before the public after two failed attempts and say, "We saved you from the virus." In this battle for power, urbanism is still alive at another point — the attitude towards democracy. At the time of the proposal by the President of the Republic for the election of the Prime Minister until today, we witnessed the brutal transformation of the National Assembly into a new coalition voting machine. The purpose or reason for this was simply this rush to power. First, the new coalition ensured a majority in all committees by increasing the number of members of the coalition in them beyond the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and also established parliamentary practices. Then the ministerial hearings took place in one week or four days. Their candidates did not really answer the opposition's questions. Members of the coalition did not seem to have cooperated at all, and everything was focused on putting an end to it as soon as possible. And not for the last time today's session. A few hours after the last hearing without reports from the working bodies and with calls for no discussion, because we need a new government as soon as possible. Well, yesterday the new coalition itself said: "The sooner we want to entrench the government, that is the goal." Is it and will it be the relationship of the coalition to the opposition and to democracy? In fact, here at this point we could turn the quote of Mr Shirtzl, with which I began. The government's fundamental objective is to bring down the opposition. Look at Hungary and you'll know what I'm talking about. For all these reasons, today’s situation is dangerous. Not because of the virus, but because of the extraordinary circumstances under which the new government is born. The virus will leave, some measures will remain. Mr Janša has never hidden his authoritarian aspirations and exceptional circumstances, and the crisis is a pool where hidden highways feel like fish in the water. Although the presentation in front of the National Assembly seems different and placid, do not be fooled – the wolf changes the hair, but never the number. Once again, the future minister of the environment has already announced that he will try to disable environmentalists. The future Minister of the Interior has already announced that he will remove the restrictions the police have in his work. In exceptional circumstances, we will not have to wait long for such measures to spread to all civil society, the media, intellectuals. In short, anyone who isn't in power after a year of freeways. Given that the votes have already been recalculated, of course we will vote against this government that the election of a new government is such a fact, I can only say that Levico can be expected in the first fighting form of defence of democratic standards of freedom and truth. We never understood the opposition as a means of overthrowing power. The purpose and essence of political action is to improve the quality of life for all citizens and residents of this country. Nevertheless, expect us to be a sharp opposition, which will not allow Slovenia to become a younger sister of the great Hungary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u21	Thank you. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Joseph Horvat is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! Honourable President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša! Dear Ministerial Candidates and Candidates! Allow one item instead of the introduction. The new Slovenia did not demolish the outgoing government. That wasn't necessary. It was overthrown by her president, Mr. Marjan Sarec. I just have to express my disappointment at this point, but I can't help it, and God can't help those who don't understand what security checks that the candidate for Minister of Defence of Magnificent stand to mean. Matthew Tonin. The one who breaks the constitutional order will fall on the security check. So much for helping us understand. Now to an important moment in Slovenian history. Today the National Assembly will appoint the 14th Government of the Republic of Slovenia. For the first time in Slovenia alone, ministers will swear in the emergency situation caused by the outbreak of the new coronavirus. We don't know the disease well, we weren't ready for it. We experience powerlessness, uncertainty, fear for ourselves and our loved ones. A rational analyst can conclude that political colours and ideologies are suddenly not so important or should not be very important. The virus is immune to politics and corruption. We welcome the efforts of the incoming governments towards infecting infection. We expect our citizens to understand that stopping social life is an inevitable measure, unfortunately, an inevitable measure. We have never had such a situation in Slovenia alone. But each one of us must be accountable to the other and follow the instructions of the competent ones. If the government's actions due to our irresponsibility are not taken, in 14 days we will have about 14 thousand registered infected. This is the most sinister side of the exponential curve. We're not rushing to power, but we're rushing action to help people. In these circumstances, there is no competition on the political stage, who will be first, and what will be first is important. Health's over. Health, health care must be the first. In this situation, I do not wish to needlessly cut back on the precious time of the new government, which is preparing for the first meeting that will take place this night. Now is the time for quick and thoughtful action to protect the health and lives of our people. Unfortunately, there is no time for many beautiful Slovenian words, which we do not receive in this house very often. Allow me to use at least two words of thanks and words of good luck. Thank you to the health care staff and all the other sacrificing services that are helping the most needy at this time. Thank you also to all those who have worked hard in the outgoing government and coalition to do something good for the country and the country, but for the reasons you know best, you have failed. And a word of good luck. Good luck to the new 14th Slovenian government. Perhaps it is only now in the context of the epidemic that we understand just how we decided to talk, that we did not exclude ourselves, that we made efforts that are owned by all negotiations, and that we agreed on the content of the coalition treaty. New Slovenia sends three relatively young ministers from the current average of the youngest parliamentary group to the Government, and the National Assembly or this house has been a strong second home for more than a decade. Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats in the new constitution will be bound by the coalition treaty and will be a strong supporter of the 14th Government of Slovenia. Dear members of the new government, respected Prime Minister on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, I want many health and wise decisions for better Slovenia, blue decisions for all people. It is time to finally provide accessible health care for all, including those on the side of society, it is time to establish a just social state, a country where work will be paid, and it is time for Slovenia to become an attractive country for domestic and foreign investors, for the digital economy and society. The Coalition Treaty responds to our four key values from the core programme of New Slovenia. These are: human dignity, freedom, justice and security. The Coalition Treaty also follows the key traditional Slovenian values and values of the fathers of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens and citizens, be healthy, take care of yourself and happy Slovenia!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u23	Thank you. We are done with the presentation of the parliamentary groups. There will be a debate between Members and Members. My colleague Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u24	It is customary parliamentary practice to say something. Today you've decided to shorten your minutes, it would be good if you did it again another time, not just today. It's only right to say one thing, but I'll be very brief. Everyone's asking me whether I'm going to support the government now or not, because we have SMC ministers inside, what's going to happen, what's not going to happen. I'm not a schizophrenic person, if I haven't supported the mandate holder, I can't support this government either. But it is a fact that there are people in this government who are capable of doing their job, but they are part of a team of people I simply don't trust. However, I will not cooperate or allow the overthrow of a democratic government. That's the facts. That is why this must be respected also during democracy. I want this government to have a lot of good decisions at this time that is coming, and a lot of good luck. For without happiness there is no way to expect that all things will happen in themselves. But more importantly, even before they go to the government meeting, they also begin to stop the false statements themselves. Although I heard in the middle when I went out to the bathroom, a colleague of Matthew Tonin, the future Minister of Defence, how he had to deny that Ljubljana would be quarantined tomorrow or after tomorrow. I think that the President of the Government will have to say this several times, not just once, to deny it and to everyone here today who is sitting here not to sit on such stories. I don't personally believe that this government is going to do that. I wish you good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u25	Thank you. Since all the other panellists have resigned from the debate, we are moving to the final part of the debate in which the President of the Government Janez Janša gets the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u26	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you to all those who have given up the debate. Thank you also to all of you for discussing or presenting the views of your parliamentary groups. Some things were said that require an answer, including an explanation, very briefly. First time. Today we are not here because the opposition would destroy the government, but because the Prime Minister has resigned, and before that, one of the parties, the Left Party, which supported the government, has withdrawn its support. So all these words about how we want the authorities, how we've done everything for this power, sorry, but if they ever sounded funny, then they sound today. Another time. The fact that we have interfered with the work of the government, which has been doing business and causing confusion and panic, is also so foolish that I don't know, but it obviously requires that this doesn't spread in the days to come, and it takes energy to explain at a time when there will be no time. Look at the calendar, how long the previous government has been made up and the previous government. I could wait fifteen days before proposing the team you're voting on today would still not have it, and then it could all take another 30 days, as it did in summer 2018. We'd be somewhere in late April if we voted on the government. We had this procedure in the hands of the coalition that proposed it. If we were like you, we could now sit quietly in our sent-ons or in our sent-in offices and observe how the government, which has resigned itself, is practically chirping in a situation that is already and which will be significantly worse. It is true that we have established some form of cooperation, but unfortunately only temporarily, for a few days in the first half of this week. And it's on our initiative. We have called on Mr Sharpe to meet with the National Security Council, where the opposition is also. Look back a little bit. One month ago, I asked that the National Security Council meet. In all other European countries, he met, I spoke with some colleagues around us, all the other countries worked in such a way that the Government practically dealt with the measures to be taken every day to stop the spread of the virus. This never happened with us. Mr Šarec did not reply to my message to my text until Saturday, when I publicly threatened those who did not act in this situation with criminal sanctions. And then he said he wouldn't call up the National Security Council. And here, I will say, all the credit to the Minister of Health, for his guilt of not reacting, but then he publicly called on the President of the Government at a press conference to call on the National Security Council. And then it happened, and then it happened three days later. Monday this week was the first meeting in this country, where the ministers of the outgoing government seriously discussed the problem. Now, seriously, because some of them were, I'll say, extremely unserious. I think that if national television were to broadcast that session, just as many people would be fleeing Slovenia than they were then from Italy. It's chaos. But still, we thought of some things, the meeting lasted a long time, but the word did not hold up. We agreed that the next day we will meet key ministers who have key measures in their hands in the government that is running business and in the government that is coming, and we will get together, we have exchanged numbers, I have proposed some things, there has been no response. It was agreed, however, that if the Minister of Health required, at any time, this coordination should be re-established. And according to the results of the tests that were coming, the situation was such that on Tuesday night the Minister of Health called me to say that a meeting was needed, in the morning it was written, there was evidence, asking Mr. Sharpe to convene this meeting. There wasn't one. He was never here again. And now that we're hearing that Minister Gantar was late for that meeting at that time, there should be ten more at that time. Not to explain to you how long it took for the outbreak to occur in Slovenia, without a legal basis. This will only be adopted now because the law does not provide for these measures for this virus and the legal basis is yet to be created. But here, even if all the regulations were not adopted, the measures were true, and there was no problem, no one would have wondered. And what did it come to? The parishes of Slovenian municipalities then had to act on their own initiative when they saw the situation, to close individual schools because the competent minister of education did not react and then accused these people. Not to mention all the other proposals that came from the profession that were not taken into account. I have this folder of letters that they sent to me, and I didn't put them in public when the profession warned me about what to do, but it didn't. We asked kindly, I can show you all these possible letters to react, but it didn't respond. And when the consequences come — the law here provides for the responsibility to be exercised. Definitely. As far as quarantine is concerned, I don't know who's spreading this conscience. We also checked with the existing Minister of Health, he thought it was coming from our circles, I thought it was coming from those circles, also because there was no coordination needed here, and there was an unnecessary panic. A number of other such situations were not co-ordinated, not so different. Measures have been adopted, which must also be coordinated under international law with other countries, with the European Union. Nothing's been coordinated. I have been called by the Presidents of the governments of neighbouring countries all day because of all these things that were not harmonised. In the meantime, we are negotiating a solution to these complications. Ask Mr Sharpe how many heads of government he spoke to as Prime Minister, which is still at this time. I'm not telling you what they told me. So that all of this information, which is spreading, which is now occurring in one way or another, we are at some point when social networks are still functioning, it is possible to deny this stuff, and it is necessary to follow what is published here, and not to possess this false information. No quarantine for Ljubljana or for any other part of Slovenia in this sense, in terms of what the quarantine represents, is, in fact, meaningless because we are all quarantined. The measures that are necessary today are self-sufficient measures. This is the only way to prevent or slow down the spread of this virus because it cannot be prevented. Why not? Because we didn't react in time. The fact that others have not reacted across Europe is now a poor source of comfort. When we started asking the outgoing government for action and for coordination, we had analyses made by universities around the world, what is the difference between countries that responded in a timely manner and between countries that did not. Because the world is global, we have three countries that have succeeded with timely measures to stop or slow down the drastic spread of the virus, namely South Korea, Japan and Taiwan. And none did so in such a drastic way as authoritarian China. They have a parliamentary democracy everywhere that worked without some of the measures we have seen in China, where they have also been late. What is the essential difference between reactions in countries where they have managed to slow the spread in a timely manner and between most European Union countries where we are most exposed to those in the immediate neighbourhood of a key European focal point that is northern Italy? When people from China, especially Wuhan Province, went back to the countries where they work or operate after China’s new year, more than 100,000 came to northern Italy, no one was tested, no one was medically examined at the airports, although some asked for it themselves. When their relatives in the same status from the same province arrived in South Korea at the same time, all had to be quarantined for 14 days, all were tested and South Korea carried out mass testing of all potential contacts. This has slowed the spread of the virus and is slowing down. They did the same in Taiwan and Japan. And that's all weeks ago, in front of the world's public. Only the Slovenian public listened to press conferences where some representatives of the profession said that those who did not have visible signs of infection did not spread the infection. You can thank them, I can't thank them. I can't do it because it was a misbehavior. However, I thank all those who, despite such a chaotic situation in the majority of the Slovenian profession, have nevertheless drawn attention to things, have been preparing some measures that could not have been implemented without these preparations, which have never since been invited to the mainstream media, to perform. Many were forbidden to do so, as we now hear because they did not want to hear the truth or because they were accused of spreading panic. We thank all those who overburned at this time in the laboratories, in the capacities that were not sufficient and are not yet sufficient, and nothing has been substantially strengthened at this time despite the requests and warnings of this profession. I also thank all those on the team who today will take over a burden that could be put off, the commuter could be put off. You'll see the situation in three weeks, you could vote on a new government, or you could go to a new election. However, it has not been postponed, many have had to answer very specific questions in these presentations, despite the fact that they also had to answer very specific questions. You've been torturing the Minister of Health all day, practically, democratically, none of this. But all of these also had to prepare the measures to be taken. I thank them for that, even though you say they had no authority to do so. Everyone has the authority to prepare something, but not everyone has the authority to accept it. Unfortunately, we have not been able to take these measures, especially in time. That's it. Thank you all very much, and this is the vast majority of the National Assembly that understands this situation. Stay healthy because the National Assembly will also have to take certain measures in the coming week or in the coming weeks. I propose to the President of the National Assembly that consideration be given to the possible addition to the Rules of Procedure, as far as possible, to allow at least working bodies to work at a distance. I don't think it's possible for the National Assembly under the Constitution, but it would be possible for working people. If the European Council can meet at a videoconference and decide, then the working bodies may as well. All the techniques exist and can last for several weeks, and I do not think the National Assembly can afford not to operate in such a situation where there will be many measures to be taken, of a legal nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u27	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Anyone else want a word on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? I see it's an interest. Or perhaps then to explain the voice? [[advertising from the hall]] Okay. Then I conclude the debate. We're moving to the vote. In accordance with Rule 232 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the appointment of ministers and ministers shall be voted on by voting on the list of candidates for ministers as a whole. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. I put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly appoints Zvonka Černač as Minister without a Department for Development and EU Cohesion Policy; Tomaž Gantar as Minister of Health; Aleš Hojsa as Minister of Home Affairs; Dr Helena Jaklitsch as Minister without a Resource, for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world; Boštjana Kortnika for the Minister of Public Administration; mag. Mr Lilliano Kozlovich, Minister of Justice; Mr Janez Cigler King, Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities; Dr Simono Kustec Lipicer, Minister of Education, Science and Sport; Dr. Anžet Logar, Minister of Foreign Affairs; Dr. Aleksandro Pivec, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food; Mr Zdravka Pavlovska, Minister of Economic Development and Technology; Dr. Vasko Simoniti, Minister of Culture; Mag. Mr Andrej Shirclja for Minister of Finance; Mr Matthew Tonin for Minister of Defence; Andrej Visiak as Minister of Environment and Space and Jernej Vrtovac as Minister of Infrastructure. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Comrade Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Look, the truth is, we have to say that the National Assembly has done its homework. As Chairman of the Health Committee, I have been monitoring the issue since the end of last year. My colleague Jelko and I have cooperated adequately and constructively in the mandate of the 13th Government. Also with the other vice-president of the LMSH. In early February, we had a serious discussion about this. We agreed that the SDS should make a reference. That's what happened to 10. 17. After the first deadline, we had a board meeting where we warned the government not to fall asleep. Most European governments have fallen asleep. The Chinese gave us, in fact, a month we haven't used. We had three issues of the board. In the meantime, we also wanted to unleash this politically, and we called on the Co-Chairs of the Committee together. I never take on myself as some other committee of mine and so on. The composition of the National Assembly will be the same, and I hope that this creative cooperation continues with the 14th government, because times are too serious. However, Mr Janša is responsible enough for the policy, I hope, after all, he is in all the compositions of the National Assembly, so that he will take criticism in good faith. For the introduction, perhaps everyone could exclude certain party trumpets and also such activities through social networks. Because, after all, democracy has begun to tend to quarantine us. We can also use this time to reflect on what policy should be through the creative exploitation of these networks. We have been living in digital society for 20 years and there will be no end to society and society. Note, however, the instructions given today by young doctors. Thank you. Happy Slovenia!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u29	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 31. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 31.]] / applause/ On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I find that ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are appointed. I invite ministers and ministers to occupy the seats dedicated to the Government in the Chamber. I congratulate ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on their appointment and wish them a successful ministerial duty. I ask the newly appointed ministers and ministers to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The first will be sworn by Zvonko Černač, Minister without a Resource, responsible for Development and EU Cohesion Policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u30	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u31	The next one should be sworn in by Tomaž Gantar, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u32	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u33	The next one should be sworn in by Aleš Hojs, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u34	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u35	Swear to Dr. Helena Jaklitsch, Minister without a department for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u36	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. /Applause. /
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u37	Sworn to Boštjan Koritnik, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u38	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u39	Let him swear by the Magus. Lilliana Kozlovich, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u40	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u41	Janez Ciliger King, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, swears.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u42	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u43	Swear to Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer, Minister of Education, Science and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u44	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u45	I want Dr. Ange Logar, Minister for Foreign Affairs, sworn in.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u46	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all of my strong people for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u47	Dr. Aleksandra Pivec, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, swears.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u48	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all of my strong people for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u49	Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, swears.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u50	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u51	I want Dr. Vasko Simoniti, Minister of Culture, sworn.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u52	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u53	Let him swear by the Magus. Andrej Shircelj, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u54	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u55	Let him swear by the Magus. Matthew Tonin, Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u56	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u57	Let him swear by the Magus. Andrej Vizjak, Minister of Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u58	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u59	Take the oath of Jernej Vrtovec, Minister of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u60	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-13-SDZ8-Izredna-31.ana.u61	Because the MPs are Zvonko Černač, Dr. Ange Logar, mag. Andrej Shircelj, mag. Matthew Tonin and Jernej Vrtovec appointed ministers, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, may not serve as Members during their term of office. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission and ask it to inform the assembly which candidates or candidates will replace those Members in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. On the basis of a notification from the National Election Commission, the Mandate-Election Commission will prepare a report and propose approval of the mandates to the National Assembly. The National Assembly notes that Members who, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, are temporarily unable to perform parliamentary functions because they have been appointed as ministers, shall cease, as of today, in accordance with Article 5 and Article 6 of the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Inquiry, Article 10 of the Law on Parliamentary Oversight of Intelligence and Security Services, and Article 201 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following functions: Mr Zvonku Černaču, President of the Committee on Internal Affairs, Public Administration and Local Administration, Member of the Commission for the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services and Deputy Member of the Commission for the Investigation Commission on the Identification of Abuses in Franc Kangler and Others; Dr. Anžet Logar, President of the Commission for the supervision of Public Finance and Member of the Investigative Commission on the identification of abuses and non-economic conduct in DUTB; Mr Andrej Shirtzli as Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy; Mr Mate Tonin is the President of the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services and the role of the President and member of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of abuses and non-economic behaviour in the DUTB. Their function shall cease from the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. With the pledge of the new government, Marjan Sarec, who has ceased to serve as Prime Minister of the Government as a result of his resignation, with his ministers and ministers, ceases to do business today. Pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 14, first paragraph of the Law on Members and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall be informed of the following decision: It shall be established that Marjan Sarec, who ceases to carry out the current tasks of the President of the Government, and Dr. Miro Cerar, Peter Jožef Česnik and Rudi Medved, who have ceased to carry out the current affairs of the Ministers, shall resume their duties as Members today. Pursuant to Article 14 of the Law on Members and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall also be informed of the following decision: It shall be established that, as of today, they shall cease to serve as Members and Members of the Parliament, Ms Kociper, Nina Maurovich, Jani Möderndorfer and Karl Urh, who have served as Members and Members, instead of Members, who served as President of the Government and Ministers. The National Assembly notes that Members who cease to serve as Members and Members in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members shall, today in accordance with Articles 5 and 6 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation and with Articles 201 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, cease the following functions: Ms Nini Maurovich, Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food; Mr Jani Möderndorfer, President and Member of the Investigative Commission on the Identification of Supposed Money Laundering in NKBM, d.d., the alleged illegal financing of the SDS political party and the alleged illegal financing of the SDS electoral campaign for the early election of Members to the National Assembly in 2018; and Mr Karli Urh, Vice-President of the Commission on Relations with Slovenians in the replacement and worldwide. I inform you that Dr. Miro Cerar and Peter Jožef Česnik made a written declaration today to resign from the duties of Members of the National Assembly. On the basis of the sixth indent of the first paragraph and the second paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members and Article 202 and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall be informed of the following decision: It shall be established that, today, Dr. Miro Cerar and Peter Jožef Česnik have made a written declaration to resign from the duties of a Member of the National Assembly, and therefore, as of today, they shall terminate the term of office of a Member. On this basis, I will ask the State Election Commission to inform the National Assembly which candidates or candidates will become Members or Members of Parliament in accordance with Article 17 of the Electoral Law for the remainder of the term of office instead of Members of Dr Mir Cerar and Peter Jožef Česnik, who will terminate their term of office. On the basis of a notification from the National Election Commission, the Mandate-Electorial Commission will prepare a report and propose approval of the terms of office of Members for the remainder of the term of office. However, I invite the newly appointed ministers and ministers to the lobby of the large hall on an official photo-term. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 31st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
