ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 46th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Ferenc Horváth, Felice Žiž from 17:00 on, Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, Matjaž Han, mag. Dejan Kaloh, mag. Andrej Reich and Franz Kramar. The meeting was attended by the President of the Government, Janez Ivan Janša, and the candidate for Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jože Podgoršek, on the 2nd item of the agenda, as well as representatives of the Government to the two agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 46th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 9 October 2020, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We have not received any proposals to withdraw the item from the agenda or to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 46th Extraordinary Session has been set. We're moving on to one. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on interim measures for plethora and the removal of the consequences of COVID-19 within the framework of an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities to Janez Cigler King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members, colleagues from the Government, remain present! Preventive measures and self-protection remain a key instrument or a key weapon in the fight against covid-19. If we do not adhere to these measures, the consequences are great and serious. This is also evident from the current epidemiological situation that affects our lives in all areas. The treatment and today's final adoption of the fifth anti-coron packaging coincides with extremely difficult times. Your endorsement of these measures brings the urgently needed solutions and responses to health problems and needs, in the labour market, in the economy, in the area of social protection, education, infrastructure and could also be listed as a result of the spread of covid-19 disease. The financial assistance provided for by the measures restates the financing of measures to prevent the spread and limitation of covid-19 infection and of all the consequences, needs and distresses which unfortunately are being strengthened. Allow me to briefly present the main supporting measures of this fifth anti-koronapacket, which the parental committee, the Committee on Labour, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities confirmed in the National Assembly on Monday, and I also sincerely thank you for that. I start with labour market and economic safeguards. With the aim of protecting as many jobs as possible by this proposal of the law, we provide for an extension of the intervention measure to subsidise waiting at home by the end of the year for all sectors that show a drop in income by at least 20% compared to 2019. With this employer, we help to maintain the activity and, most importantly, jobs. After the first wave, this measure proved to be very good. We have kept a total of almost 300,000 jobs so far and have enabled the economy to start their services and production at a time when the epidemic was cancelled and when they had to start their services and production again, to have employees available immediately and to start their activities where possible. The next labour market measure is compensation for wages due to a certain quarantine or force majeure, i.e. already in force or already in force under the PKP4 measure, by increasing the remuneration in the event of absence from work due to a higher force resulting from the obligation to protect a child against a specific quarantine up to and including the fifth grade of the primary school. This compensation shall also be provided in the case of the protection of a child with special needs which require permanent care and care. Domestically, parents of compulsory and preschool children will be compensated for an 80 percent quarantine rate for their child instead of 50 percent. This will prevent a number of financial and other difficulties that may have occurred since the start of the school year on 1 September. Nor should it be overemphasized that this measure will apply retroactively from 1 September 2020. Reimbursement of these paid salaries, which I have just mentioned, will be open to any employer to apply for his employees. After a certain period of time, we are reintroducing measures for self-employed and business persons and farmers. We provide them with protection in the form of monthly basic income and reimbursement of partial remuneration for the duration of quarantine. Both measures will last from 1 October until the end of this year and the Government will be able to extend them by a decision if it so decides and assesses the current situation for a maximum period of six months. The amount of the monthly basic income for self-employed persons will be EUR 1000 100 per month for the months of October, November and December 2020. For cultural beneficiaries to whom the Republic of Slovenia is already paying social security contributions, the monthly basic income will be €700. The loss of income in the event of a certain quarantine will, however, be reimbursed to self-employed and business persons to farmers of EUR 250. The condition for obtaining the right to this monthly base income will be the fall in the income of beneficiaries in 2020 due to the consequences of the epidemic by more than 20% compared to 2019. Infrastructure measures are also intended to maintain jobs, and occasional and urban transport operators will be entitled to compensation for the costs they have incurred since they were unable to carry out transport from 16 March to 11 May 2020. The second set of measures concerns the area of social protection, with the aim of caring for the elderly and other vulnerable groups, the proposal includes a number of measures, important in terms of preventing the spread and limitation of covid-19 infection. Full care for the elderly is a key priority of our mandate, and in fact this time has only strengthened it. We are actively solving problems in this area. Let me mention that, in this area, we provide additional incentives in addition to the funding for human resources reinforcements provided in the PKP4, amounting to 20 % of the hourly basic wage for temporary staff in another social security institution and the allowance for direct work with users in grey and red zones, amounting to 30% of the hourly position or basic wage of the employee. We will also relieve the financial burden on the homes of the elderly, extend some of the measures in this area and introduce some additional measures. It is essential that the financial burden on users or their properties does not increase. Allow me to add there that homes and all other social security institutions have sufficient protective equipment, which some homes already have experience with covid and most have successfully stopped it in the first cases with the self-sacrifice of their employees and with the appropriate support of the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health. Health protection measures are extremely important. Among them, I should point out the implementation of the national call for improved accessibility to health services and free voluntary vaccination against seasonal influenza for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It is also proposed to cover the cost of establishing a one-month strategic reserve of personal protective equipment in public health establishments and to co-finance the purchase of medical equipment for the implementation of proliferation prevention measures and for the treatment of covid-19 infection. We are also introducing a novelty in this area, namely absence from work due to illness without a personal physician’s certificate for up to three days. We believe that, in particular, by implementing the national call for improved accessibility, we will be able to respond quickly and qualitatively to waiting species that are a major problem. Too many people can't wait long to be treated by their doctor. The package contains a number of solutions, including in the areas of education and education and others. I think we already know him quite well, after eleven hours of consideration on a competent committee. As I have pointed out many times before, this package is necessary. I thank you in advance for the constructive debate and ask for your support for all these measures, because they are necessary and necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. I give the floor to President Eva Irgle to present the report to the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! At its 44th emergency meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the draft law on temporary measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of covid-19 submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration by means of an urgent procedure. The representative of the proposed Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities presented at the outset a proposal for a law and a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented a broad opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects. The opinion of the State Council was presented by their representative and said that the Commission supports the bill, but proposes some amendments to improve the content of the bill. Among other things, he drew attention to the details of the national call for improved accessibility to health services, which, according to the Commission, represents the first step towards the unwanted privatisation of healthcare activities. Waiting periods are also problematic as the last major financial inputs have not proved to be effective. The additional remuneration of employees exposed to covid-19 infections remains open. The Commission proposes an addition of 65 % instead of 30 % in the case of covid-19 work, as well as a more detailed definition of the criterion for the implementation of the award of performance in the field of public service delivery, which will be included in the provision of services under the national invitation to tender. Representatives of the invited then drew attention to the problems that had arisen during social dialogue, as well as to changing the government's views as an impossible timeframe in which negotiators were placed, which is well known for the quality of legislative solutions. In the bill, they say, there are many good solutions, and the individual is not considered to be sufficiently qualified. In the debate, members and members of opposition members of the Government's opposition groups made it clear that, as in the adoption of the previous four intervention laws to remedy the effects of covid-19, it is also now placing in the draft law non-directly related to the removal of covid-19 effects. As a positive measure, they welcomed free vaccination against seasonal flu for employees. Representatives of the coalition stressed that the main solutions relate to compensation for salaries for workers due to a certain quarantine or inability to perform labour due to a higher force, due to the obligation to protect the child. The measure of partial reimbursement of compensation for temporary waiting for workers, measures in the field of social protection, waiting periods in health care, assistance to self-employed and micro-enterprises contain many good solutions in this law, but only if we want to see them. It brings funding for protective equipment, saves the hardships of self-employed persons, rewards employees in social security institutions and employees in health care. The law also provides for three days of absence from work due to illness without a doctor’s visit, 80 % of the remuneration for quarantine if the child is cared for, and the exemption for payment of the child if the child is quarantined. Social dialogue was good and reached a high level of consensus. The Committee also adopted a number of amendments that improved the legal text. Finally, we voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them, and a complementary proposal is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by Felice Žiža, who will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian Group of National Communities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u6	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. All in attendance, all in attendance! Egregio Vice Presidente della Camera di Stato, Grazie per la password. Un cordiale saluto and tutti presenti. Tiste Hölgyim és Uraim! In our parliamentary group, we support the Government's proposal for a law on temporary measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic. With this bill, the government is looking for ways to ensure the smoothest possible work, life and functioning of public services. In order to effectively manage covid-19, it is of course important that each of us assume his or her share of responsibility and take full account of preventive measures, of course, as we know them well, these are wearing facial masks, this is taking into account the social safety distance, this is regular and effective and thorough washing, including disinfection of the hands and, of course, care for normal cough hygiene. In the so-called fifth anti-korona package, as we have already heard, new measures are being introduced and the measures already in force in the field of our lives are being extended. Among the most important are job protection, to help the economy, to prevent the spread of covid-19, with special care for older citizens and for other vulnerable groups, and, of course, to reduce waiting lines in the health sector, this is of course a major problem and will show likely major problems. As we have heard, the flu vaccine will also be paid by the State. We call on the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the parliamentary group, and this is very important for us, the National Institute for Public Health and all other bodies that carry out and supervise the implementation of measures in their work in the field of municipalities where the Italian and Hungarian national communities live, to use both languages consistently and equally, i.e. Italian and Hungarian in the Slovenian language, because, as we well know, these two languages are also official. The quarantine decision must be written both in Lendava and in Cyprus in bilingual form, in Slovenian and Hungarian or in Slovenian and Italian. If this is taken into account, also instructions to prevent infection, the spread of covid-19 infections must be written on bilingual forms, like all other documents. However, it is important that, of course, the authorities and workers, the inspectors, all those working in this area can also communicate in Italian and Hungarian, as provided for by the Constitution and the law. In our parliamentary group, as already mentioned at the outset, we will support the Government's proposal that has put this law under consideration today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Eva Irgl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello again! We therefore have before us the so-called fifth anti-coronapack, in which we extend the measures already in force, but urgently necessary, but at the same time we also introduce new ones, all with the aim of mitigating the consequences of covida-19 as much as possible. And here, of course, at the beginning of the appeal to all who are sitting here today, and also to those who are watching us, as the Minister originally said, to step together, let us do everything we can to mitigate the consequences of covid-19 and to take full account of the measures to contain the virus as much as possible. In particular, this package, which we have before us today, is referring to the labour market, which is undoubtedly a major test, so within the law we also introduce measures that preserve jobs. It refers to a situation that takes place in homes for older and other forms of institutional protection. Even without this situation, you know that the difficult situation in nursing homes is that we need the staff. At least we're partially solving this within this law. The fifth antikronapack mitigates the consequences due to covid-19 in the economy and mitigates the consequences due to covid-19 in health. In the foreground of this package, we are putting in particular job conservation, rewarding the most burdened who care for the elderly, and health workers, again solving the pressures of self-employed people through the basic monthly income and the pressures of micro-enterprises. However, we are introducing many other measures in various areas that are trying to mitigate and remedy the consequences of covid-19. If we look at more important measures within this law. First, in the quarantine area. Some measures are being extended, some new ones are being introduced. Let me mention here an important measure, if a child is given a quarantine, then of course the parent must look after him. Today, parents thus receive 80% of their wages under this law. Before, severe hardships occurred, as the compensation was only 50%. So today we're saving this family crisis. For employers, the possibility of paying the remuneration paid for absence from work due to a certain quarantine is extended, and they are further burdened by the possibility of reimbursement of the salary due to absence from work due to the protection of children. Employees continue to be subject to a 100 % remuneration measure in the event of a certain quarantine due to contact with an infected person in the workplace. In this law, we extend the waiting-for-work measure. As regards self-employed persons, it has already been mentioned several times, but it is only right to say again, for self-employed persons and micro-enterprises, temporary measures in the form of a monthly base income of EUR 1000 are reintroduced and some of the lost income is recovered. When we talk about caring for the elderly, let me say that those most burdened will be further rewarded. They will receive an allowance of 20%, and then protective equipment will be co-financed from the budget, and a critical resource will be made for the future, which is necessary in particular in homes for older and other forms of social protection institutions. As far as health is concerned, we have quite a few measures relating to this area. A novelty is being introduced, namely the possibility of taking advantage of absence from work to three working days due to illness, without a personal physician’s certificate. The procedure for issuing a quarantine decision is also simplified and, as has already been said several times, voluntary vaccination against influenza will be free of charge. When we look at education and education, in the field of education and education, financing of protective equipment and facilities for disinfection of premises, the exemption of payment for kindergartens in the case of certain quarantines, arrangements for distance education and other measures is provided. We will certainly support the fifth party in the Slovenian Democratic Party, the so-called anti-Koronapacket, and we hope to resolve as much pressure as possible from the people, individuals, economies in which they have been affected by the situation already mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Jerca Korče will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u10	Mr. President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! There's already a fifth antikronapack ahead of us today. Yes, all packages are intended to fight the crown, pardon and eliminate the consequences of the crown. Today it is clear to all of us as a white day that, and still, these packages are being used only as an alibi, only as a cover for the introduction of measures that change our society and our country, and that they are slowly, but constantly interfering with different laws, which cloud our legal order or make a legislative mess. What does the single price of a book have to do with fighting the epidemic? What other than a diseased desire for control is the entry of an inspection into private premises? Why doesn't the government spend more money on public health, but they want to share it with private people? Why are you saving the epidemic by gradually privatizing health care? That's why we could list a lot more. Why is it that most in this National Assembly do not want to see the depraved practice of taking an emergency route for things that require thought and make sense to drive them along a normal legislative path, matters that are not related to the resolution of the epidemic? Why is there a cover of intervention in non-intervention content that violates the Constitution? Why do we not say, as legislators, enough is enough, enough of this government's under-appreciative attitude towards the National Assembly and the people we represent? Why doesn't most people hope to stop this madhouse imposed on us by the executive branch of power? Despite this criticism, which is presented to you in the List of Marjan Šarc almost every package, despite the fact that you are persistently rejecting the suggestions of the List of Marjan Šarc and the opposition, we ask you today to hear this call. The situation we are in today is the fruit of four months of this government's engagement with everything but the crisis and the virus. There is uncertainty, fear, apathy, anger, and mistrust in society. All of this is the result of the work of this government, or it is more correct to say to the President of the Government, because he is the first messenger of everything, the guide, the creator of the social atmosphere. It's more than obvious that he's not personally being sobered by anything. It is more than obvious that, and never will a statesman who speaks to his people in the spirit of optimism act as an example, encourage the nation to solidarity. That's what he showed yesterday at the press conference. The fight against the epidemic doesn't mean you write down measures on paper, step in front of the cameras, and tell us what's closing. The first step is to gain trust. Trust people that you take them as partners and talk to them. It's simple, people just trust the trustworthy. You need to get people's attention and hope even when it's the hardest thing to do, talk them out as part of the community and call them to help, call them to solidarity with others. Dear Government, start working for the people, for the good of all and not for your own good! Nevertheless, let us finish the call to the people in the letter of Marjan Šarc: “Consider the profession!” The media shall provide you with all relevant information and advice. Let's get them inside. True, we don't trust the government, but we will always trust the profession. So let's not put ourselves at risk, let's not put others at risk. People are always in the end that solution to the crisis. People can decide for themselves how this health crisis will end. Therefore, the advice is simple: “Follow the advice of epidemiologists. It is our future and all of us." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Just everything you think about Marjan Šarc didn't have to say. [[…]] [[Laugh]] We could save it for an internal meeting. [[…]] The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! There are tough days and weeks ahead of the whole country. It's been a hard month for us. It is not necessary to stress in particular that every citizen and citizen of Slovenia bears the burden of this coronation. However, for many individuals and groups of burdens, it is especially difficult. At the time of the second wave of the epidemic, which has hit us with all our might in the last few days, we are already taking the fifth antikronapack. With each package, fewer problems would be expected, the Government would expect to address the shortcomings of previous measures to the best of its ability, including past experience, and adapt to the situation, and unfortunately not exactly what the government's already leaked practice shows. This could also be put on a common denominator, emergency and short-term patching without a vision in one part and the other part represents a set of examples of Chinese shops in small, quick, questionable quality. One of our main criticisms in the adoption of previous packages was the short term and, if you want, the short-sightedness of the Government when adopting and, above all, extending the basic solutions to deal with the crisis. At the same time, we stressed that, despite the slow release of restrictive measures after the first wave of the epidemic, we will still be accompanied by uncertainty because of the then possible, now very real second wave. In the fourth package, we proposed with amendments that the remuneration measure would apply until the end of 2020, as companies would be willing to take on more risks and could maintain more jobs. The Government has now finally proposed this with the possibility of an extension for a further six months, until the end of June 2021. We welcome the re-introduction of the monthly basic income for self-employed persons, but we again warn against the exclusion of penal workers. There is also a warning regarding the measure of partial reimbursement of workers on temporary hold for work, which provides for a refund of 80 % of the value of the maximum monetary compensation, which is still a high cost for employers, so it would make sense that this proportion of the country is increasing and that the goal of maintaining jobs will actually be achieved to the greatest extent possible. We also propose extending the use of tourist vouchers until the end of May 2021. Such unpredictable forecasts of future measures raise the question of whether all those who have not yet made use of the vouchers will be able to recover at all. Only 43% have been cashed so far. After the established practice so far, all our well-intentioned proposals have been slightly rejected, but according to yesterday's government's forecast, we promise not to do so at least this time in tourist vouchers. Regrettably, also under the pretext of temporary intervention, legal solutions are adopted, which deviate substantially from the system-wide measures in force. One of the proposals in this package is the temporary freezing of the Single Price Act by the end of April 2022, with the Ministry's representatives not even able to substantiate how the freezing of this law is related to the covid epidemic, except the fall in the sales of books at that time. Another emerging proposal, which also substantially deviates from systemic solutions, is the provisions on the national call for the reduction of waiting lines in the health sector. Individuals may also apply to the invitation to tender and the costs would be covered by public funds. For Social Democrats, such a solution to the reduction of waiting lines in health is a clear intention of the Government to privatise health activities so desirable. However, it should be quite the opposite in order to make the call primarily for public health operators who have proved to be the most important defence wall in the fight against the virus. For all of this, the medical profession must now face political decrees or even better pressures. According to the proposal, NIJ is ordered to issue quarantine decisions, which is a nice saying of mockery from already overburdened staff at the Institute, while at the same time, as a warning in response, such a provision is unethical and beyond the legal powers and tasks of the Institute. Moreover, interference with a very large number of different laws, with unclear incoherent provisions, only increases uncertainty and mistrust among people. But the worst of all is the growing social distress, exclusion, and we can be particularly concerned about the elderly, the disabled, or all vulnerable groups, including adolescents and children who resume long - distance education, which is a cause of great concern for both children and parents. The Social Democrats will be subject to our decision to support this law and to vote on the debate on the amendments with the support of our amendments. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Janja Sluga will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u14	Today is once again a decision on how to help entrepreneurs, farmers, parents and children, as well as all other fellow citizens and fellow citizens who, due to the consequences of covid-19, have been in a difficult situation, in a position of high material and social vulnerability and mental burden. It is already the fifth law or package of temporary measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of covid-19, but it does not seem to be the last. This time, too, we heard a number of criticisms from the opposition about what this law is not and what this law should be. We've heard stories about arsonists, as it was trying to show in an attempt to abolish the Single Price Act and determine the amount of basic monthly income for self-employed people in culture. The two measures were subsequently amended and supplemented by an appropriate argument. It is envisaged that the Single Price Act of the Book will not apply to the current book market interest until 30 April 2022. However, the provision on monthly basic income has been adequately corrected by the supplement on the parental committee, thus allowing the full amount to be paid to those self-employed in culture who are not entitled to the payment of contributions from the national budget. All measures took place in the last week through the sieve of two interested working bodies and the parent work committee, family, social affairs and persons with disabilities, which adopted a number of additions to the bill, many of them also on the proposal of the SMC. I therefore stress here that, in the adoption of the fifth anti-Korona law, the willingness of both the Government and the coalition groups has been demonstrated to improve the measures we are discussing today in order to ensure the best possible welfare of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, despite the different positions we have. Therefore, I will only point out some of the solutions provided by the bill and in the design of which we have participated in the SMC. This is certainly a compensation for workers’ salaries due to a specific child protection quarantine of 80 percent of the worker’s salary. This provision has also extended the amendment of the SMC coalition to foster caregivers. A similar measure is also envisaged in the form of a flat base amount of EUR 250 for self-employed persons, which appeared to have been forgotten in the initial versions of the law. Extraordinary aid in the form of a monthly basic income for the majority of beneficiaries of EUR thousand 100, for which we have also taken up SMC in previous CAPs, this time the proposal came across the business and this measure includes self-employed people in culture and also farmers. In the field of health, there are many measures, including free vaccination against seasonal influenza for all compulsory health insurance insurers. In the field of sport, it is possible for operators with a co-financing contract for the implementation of the annual sport programme to use the funds allocated in 2020, for example, to operate. It is possible for the implementation of the programme in 2020, given the emergency situation, to reduce the minimum amount of programmes implemented to as many months as was actually possible to implement sport programmes. The virus has been our reality for some time now and is no longer new. The interest of all should be to achieve long-term and constructive cooperation in the search for and adoption of solutions that will help all of us to return to the former routine of business and social contacts without a prescribed distance and without masks. But there's a long way to go. A path that can only be crossed by cooperation. We will, of course, support the PKP5 package in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I quote: “This extensive amendment of individual laws in different areas under one law affects the intransigence, ambiguity and inconsistentness of the legal system.” End of quote. This was written for Zuyf, which was accepted by the government of Janez Janša, by the Law - Laundered Service of the National Assembly. With equal practice, the government of Janez Janša continues in this mandate. You are also changing system legislation today in accordance with your own interests. You are also causing permanent harm to citizens and citizens of this country today. You are amending the Health Act in parts where you would at least partially oblige privates to act on the principles of solidarity. You deviate from the Health Care Act by burdening the public health treasury and burdening the capitalists. You are once again raising thresholds for registering public contracts, allowing for more suspicious transactions, even more suspicious orders. You've also prepared an invitation to shorten the waiting period for which your own Minister Gantar says he won't change much, and he's right. Nothing will change for citizens and citizens. But he's going to transfer a lot of public money into the owners' pockets, and that's what he's going to do. The latter are already losing their hands, and there is no shortage of joy in insurance companies that are already speeding up the purchase of private clinics and diagnostic centers. Which services will be financed by our money, will be decided by Minister Gantar on the basis of data on waiting periods, although the Minister does not have this data because even the National Institute for Public Health has not published them since March this year. And that doesn't seem to bother him. We know who that money's going to go to, and we know where it's not going. Primary health care, spinal cord, and system doorman won't get anything. Even in the budget you don't practically give him anything, even though people of personal doctors don't practically get on the phone anymore, despite the fact that it's the health homes that have set up a covid entry point in record time for thousands and thousands of citizens throughout the country, and despite the fact that strong and quality primary health care could prevent a greater flow of patients to a secondary and tertiary level. I could. You could, however, not have been able in seven months of public health and other systems nor to minimally prepare for the second wave of the coronary virus. We could spend more money on health care, at least staff standards for health care, and we could spend more money on health infrastructure and not on military equipment. We could post a call, say, for co-financing primary health care, but you wouldn't. Your solutions are different – financing of health care through market insurance and the implementation of health care through private doctors who are on the market. This way, Government, you will destroy the system of one payer who is the only one that makes sense to the country of our size. In this way you will finally reach the primary level, without which no normal health system can function. And as he screams, in this way you will accelerate the increase in social inequality, you will create those people who can afford a doctor, and those who can no longer afford a doctor. What happened to dental care will happen under your government and will do to the entire health system. Total decomposition. This law represents the sum, essence and essence of all policies of John Janša. A politician whose democratic procedures and the voice of the opposition constitute an obstacle. Obstacles are media. Obstacles are trade unions. The only objective of these policies is to privatise, destroy public services under the pretext of state of emergency, which is created by such policies alone. Therefore, I repeat the words of the Legislative-Legal Service at the time of the adoption of Zujf, opaque, inconsistent, and add, depraved, negligent, harmful. It's just... it's... it's... it's
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u17	Thank you very much. I would warn you and also give you a reminder of things that are not connected at all. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Let's keep going. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented slowly, now I am speaking to Ambassador Tadej Šuštar. [[…]] [[…]] But before I give her my word, Matthew T. Vatovec, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u18	Dear Vice-President, it is not the first time and obviously not the last time you have commented on the position of the Group. You have previously done so in the position of the LMŠ Group, where you have made a literal mockery of the Rules of Procedure, and you have now done so again without any basis. We know that it is a parliamentary practice not to be disputed with the views of the parliamentary groups. It is even more unworthy to do so to those who currently hold the meeting, and that is you, the esteemed Vice-President. So my procedural proposal is to essentially stop doing that, because this is already beyond any good taste. The fact that you are sanctioning or mocking individual parliamentary groups from the position of power of the chair of the meeting is usually the opposition's parliamentary shine, is something that is unacceptable to democracy. And from this town, I urge you to stop doing that. And once again, this isn't the first time. Let me point out that yesterday morning we discussed how the meeting was being held and we spoke explicitly about not commenting and interfering with the holding of the meeting in the debates of the other Members and Members in this way from the point of view of the President. So let's keep at least here some minimum level of some dignity, because what you've been doing lately is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u19	Thank you so much for the heads-up. As a rule, if there were correct views and debates, this shall not be affected, but the person who holds the meetings shall have the right to intervene in cases where it considers that the debate or anything else does not take place in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I warned you. We are not dealing with psychological profiles here, and so on, we are dealing with legislation that specifically addresses the consequences of the health crisis in our country. And in all these procedures, you had every opportunity. What is appropriate and inappropriate, you know, is that according to the rules of procedure the one who leads, but I do not refer to it, we are talking about content. As for the presentation of the views of the groups of Members or the debates, they should refer to content, not to anything else. We will put the "something else" on the special agenda item, and we will discuss it if you wish. Now, first of all, it's Violeta Tomić. [[advertising from the hall]] You weren't because she got up earlier when you weren't even in the hall. Here you go, Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u20	See, Presidents, it is not up to you to judge the positions of the groups of Members, whether they are appropriate or not. What will go into the magnetogram today will be used many times as an argument when the SDS party will choke in any way against the committee's management, because what you have done now is totally unacceptable and not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Yesterday we sat together, buddy, me [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u21	Ma'am, let me suggest you make a procedural proposal. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u22	Don't interrupt me. My procedural proposal is that you do not reach out to discussers who have procedural proposals and that you do not comment on the views of sent groups, because you know this well that it is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u23	A colleague, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 75, may, at any time, intervene in the word of any person at any stage or replicas or procedural proceedings or debates.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u24	You're not commenting on the position. I'm sorry and you're very insulting to Members and Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u25	Colleague. Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u26	It is unacceptable and will be heard by the President of the National Assembly, for we have just concluded something quite contrary yesterday.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Tina Hefferle, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u28	Mr Vice-President, Mr Tanko, we sat together at an internal meeting yesterday, a working meeting of the President of the National Assembly, where we discussed the management of the meetings. And you, like all of us, all the vice-presidents, all the presidents of the working bodies and you, Mr Tanko, have agreed in one voice that when we hold meetings, we do not comment on the content of the debaters, we do not interfere substantively with the views of individual Members or Members. And in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the agreement on the practice of chairing meetings, you are well aware that you must not interfere with the positions of the groups when they are on the agenda. Each Group of Members shall have 5 minutes to present its position and shall not comment on that. Like any other parliamentary group in its position, you must not comment on the views of the previous parliamentary group in its position, and what you are going to do now is a serious violation of the Rules of Procedure. You refer to Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure, which refers to the maintenance of the order at the meeting. Maintaining order at the sitting does not mean that you are intruding, substantively, commenting on what you have an opinion on Charc and so on and I do not know everything yet [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u29	My colleague, what is your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u30	I'll tell you my procedural proposal as soon as I run out of three minutes. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u31	No, when that happens, it'll be too late.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u32	The three-minute period I have at my disposal to explain my procedural proposal and please don't bother me. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u33	Look, ma'am. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u34	I've got three minutes. Please, Mr. Tanko, hold on to that. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u35	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u36	What you were so passionate about at an internal meeting yesterday. [[…]] You have also advocated that meetings should be conducted in accordance with the rules of procedure. And now I'm asking you all to stop being a two-faced gentleman, but lead as you say behind closed doors. And now you're doing some public appearance, for, I don't know, which part of the electorate. But you said yesterday that meetings should be conducted in accordance with the rules of procedure. The Rules of Procedure do not allow you, specifically, to comment on the views of the members of the groups. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u37	Colleague, meetings shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Discussions and other matters must also take place in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u38	You must not comment on the views of the Group of Members, Mr Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u39	Everything must be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u40	And my procedural proposal is - I have five more seconds to say it - to hold the meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This applies to all articles of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u41	Of course, that's what I'm trying to do. But also all those who have a word that you get a word to try to discuss in accordance with the rules of procedure. And in the debates that cause unrest in the Chamber, the chairman must draw attention to such things. And some slandering, some accusations you have, that doesn't belong in this house. You have also adopted the Code of Ethics as to how the debates will take place, and do not stick to it. And those who demand the most order in this Chamber are making the biggest schunder and unrest with debates and mode of discussion. And then when someone alerts you, you work all the way here. That's incorrect. Read what you've used, what you've accepted, what you've committed to, and stick to it. And here comes a whole bunch of unfounded accusations, judgments, processing psychological profiles and things like that, even in the positions of the parliamentary groups. Tell your opinion on the law, not your opinion, what psychological profile your fellow Member has. Leave this to another debate. First he gets the word Matthew Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u42	Thank you, Vice President. If there was one thing that, I don't know, was inappropriate, I don't know what kind of hate speech or what kind of things we've heard from which Members of Parliament, I'd understand that you're interventioning, I'd understand that you're also warning the Member in the positions of the sent groups. You two have done something completely the opposite. Two members of the group who have just criticized the government, in which you are, of course, a member of the coalition, you are disturbed. Dear Vice President, we don't live in the same mind. If you're disturbed or in pain of criticism, you can't characterize it with someone, I don't know, a psychosocial analysis, or I don't know what, but let me take it. You're a politician. Nowhere, not in the LMŠ position nor in the position of the Left, I heard no regrets, no discrediting and so on. But he's a critic who's serious as hell. And that's what the numbers have been showing for the last few days, the numbers of the infected. And the fact that you're intruding [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u43	Procedural proposal and not substantive debate. You know what a procedural proposal is.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u44	Please don't interrupt me. I know what a procedural proposal is.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u45	Okay, then I expect a procedural proposal from you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u46	Comrade Tanko, remember your previous mandates and your procedural proposals and have the same vats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u47	Leave history, we're talking right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u48	That's a nice excuse.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u49	Procedural proposal? Please, I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u50	I'll come up with a procedural proposal. I have three minutes to explain it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u51	Of course, if you go in the context of a procedural proposal. But if you're going to discuss anything, then you don't have three minutes because I won't give it to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u52	It's absolutely in the context. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] In accordance with my business options, it will also extend the time you take from me when you jump into my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u53	No, I won't, because you don't speak in the context of a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u54	The vice-president, once again, the way in which you intervened in dignity even if you would like, is unacceptable for two parliamentary groups, especially the LMŠ, which you have discredited in a very rude way with your comments. I therefore suggest that you suspend the meeting and convene a meeting of the leaders of the groups of Members in order to discuss this. Because this is the way this national assembly can no longer work. Because as long as you're in charge of the session [[sign for the end of the debate]] When the President of the National Assembly holds a meeting, when the other Vice-President of the National Assembly holds a meeting, we do not have these problems. [[…]] Please, this is my procedural proposal - cancel the meeting and convene a working meeting of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u55	I'm certainly not gonna interrupt this meeting. Article 8 of the Code, which you have adopted with such keenness, states that the Member is dignified, respectful, tolerant and non-discriminatory at meetings of the National Assembly, meetings of working bodies, meetings, working meetings and other meetings, acts in such a way as not to disturb the work of his colleagues and other participants and fosters democratic dialogue and is not offensive. And he's not insulting. And that's all I've ever warned you about. In one debate and another, all I've said is that you're not offensive. This is just one of the provisions of this code of ethics. And stick to this, look, this has been accepted. Matjaž Germany and procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u56	Dear Vice President, everything you've just read is about you, and every time you're sitting in that chair where you actually are, as we see [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u57	Procedural proposal! She's not processing me. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u58	I have my time, let me interrupt, I have 3 minutes and I can talk for 3 minutes what I want.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u59	No, you won't talk for three minutes because I'm gonna take your word for it. I'll take your word for it if you don't talk about using the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u60	You're not capable of running this national council. You prove this every time with each session individually. You don't have powers because you don't have empathy and you're impatient.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u61	I'm giving you a warning!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I'll keep going. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u63	Second warning!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u64	And you'll give them to me because you're incompetent. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u65	I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u66	And incompetent. Everyone else can cooperate, but you can't. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u67	I take your word and continue to present the views of the groups of Members. The text is by Tadej Šuštar, New Slovenia. Here you go. [[advertising from the hall]] We will, you will. [[advertising from the hall]] I took your word, German. [[advertising from the hall]] The position is maintained by the New Slovenia Group. Here you go. [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go. [[advertising from the hall]] I'll give you, you'll get procedural, we'll just give you a position through. [[advertising from the hall]] Please state your position. [[advertising from the hall, protest hitting on parliamentary benches]] Peace in the hall, please! Peace in the hall! [[protest hitting on sentinel benches]] Peace in the hall! I've given you procedural suggestions to break the rules of procedure. [[protest hitting on sentinel benches]] Allow the Member to present the position of the Group of Members. [[advertising from the hall]] We'll also stop the session. Don't worry. That's what we're gonna do. Here you go. Here you go. [[protest hitting on sentinel benches]] Here you go. Message, here you go. [[protest hitting on sentinel benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u68	Today [[…]] [[protest hitting on sentinel benches]] Today we are taking the fifth package of measures [[…]] [[protest hitting on sentinel benches]] to mitigate and eliminate the effects of the coronary virus. [[…]] [[protest hitting on sentinel benches]] Today we are already taking the fifth package of measures to mitigate and remedy the effects of the coronary virus [[…]] [[protest hitting on sentinel benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u69	Don't be rude.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u70	Minister Janez Cigler King did a great deal of work as a lawmaker, not touching [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u71	Don't be rude! [[Screaming in the hall]] Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u72	covers a number of ministries of the current government. [[…]] Slovenia has found itself in a situation that none of us have ever experienced before [[…]] [[Screaming in the hall]] We can only hope that it will pass as quickly as possible. [[Screaming in the hall]] That the situation in the country is as normal as possible. [[Screaming in the hall]] Some of the measures have been transposed from the previous package of PKP laws because they have produced good results. Two of these are temporary waiting for work and partial subsidisation of part-time work, which the Government will be able to extend under this law until 30 June 2021 if necessary. [[departure of opposition members from the Chamber]] An important novelty that relieves personal physicians is that a worker can be absent from work by the end of this year until the end of this year without a personal physician’s certificate. We know that personal physicians spend a lot of their time on paperwork, and sometimes it seems that they are bureaucrats working on filling out forms rather than focusing on the patient and his problems. Another important measure in the field of health is that, for 2020 and 2021, the Ministry of Health will implement a national call for improved accessibility to health services. All healthcare providers authorised to carry out health activities or registered in the register of private health professionals will be allowed to apply for the invitation to tender. The Minister of Health will determine the type of health services to be the subject of this call. The funds will be provided from supplementary health insurance and the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The opposition tells us that this measure, which aims to reduce waiting types, will privatise public health for necessary interventions in Slovenia. That's not true, exactly the opposite. To underpin the words of Dr Simon Podnar, no one is privatising more than is privatising now with these long waiting species. It's a wild privatisation. People are forced to pay out of their own pocket. It's not public health, it's private health. I ask all skeptics whether they want to preserve the privatized health care we have now, when, for every intervention, despite the compulsory insurance paid, we are again paying to get in line in a reasonable time. Is it not better for us to take advantage of all possible capacities in the given situation and reduce waiting types also by means of health workers who are not part of the public health network? It is essential that the patient is treated as soon as possible and does not have to be paid extra for all of this. This way of dealing with waiting lines we have proposed in New Slovenia a long time ago, and we are pleased that our coalition partners have recognized the usefulness and urgency of this measure and supported its inclusion in the CAP5. We are also pleased that both the coalition and the opposition have united around voluntary vaccination against seasonal flu, which will be free of charge for all insured persons this season. This measure makes it clear that we support vaccination and encourage people to make the most of it. In the field of labour, the allowance for direct work with covid patients or patients suspected of being ill is regulated. The allowance shall be 30 % of the hourly rate of the basic salary. We see and hear various reports of health workers and employees in social security institutions who have worked endlessly to provide the best care for the sick at the first wave of the epidemic, and there is already a second wave that weighs them even more heavily before they can gain new strength after the first wave. Remuneration shall also be established for workers due to a certain quarantine or inability to carry out work for the protection of children up to and including the 5th grade of primary school and children in specific programmes. Parents who take care of a child in quarantine at home will be entitled to 80% of the remuneration during this period. In doing so, it is important to know that this measure will apply backwards from 1 September when the school year began and some parents had to stay home with their children in quarantine. We haven't even forgotten about self-employed people protecting their children in quarantine or being quarantined themselves, so they can't do their job. These will be eligible for up to €250 in remuneration for the loss of quarantine income. Self-employed people, who will fall by more than 20% this year compared to last year, will be able to apply for a monthly base income of €100 for the month of October, November and December. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we believe in the good work of our Minister Janez Cigler King and the good work of the government, we see the encouraging effects of the first four anti-Korona packages. We have also studied the measures contained in the fifth package, so we will unanimously support the law and thus give people more predictability and hope in this unenviable situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u74	Yes, thank you very much. Let me begin by saying that my procedural proposal is related to Article 20 and to Article 75 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr Jože Tanko, as Vice-President, you have gravely violated many of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure now in the last minutes of your conduct, from allowing yourself to comment on the views of the groups of Members, until you gave the Members a word when they wanted to make their procedural proposal. We know that, under the rules of procedure, the proposal has an absolute advantage over everything. Until you have warned your fellow Members from your SDS party that they must not take pictures and photograph other Members in the Chamber. We know that we have provided broadcasts of meetings and images, recording of other Members without their consent is not allowed by telephones. You did not do this to warn them of this. Now my procedural proposal is next. I propose, on behalf of the LMŠ Group, that you withdraw the management of one of the Vice-Presidents or the President of the National Assembly, who is obviously more competent to lead in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. On behalf of the other opposition parties, i.e. the parties Levic, SD, on our behalf and on behalf of the party SAB, that Members, at a time when you will be leading the meetings of the National Assembly in the way you are conducting it today, will not sit behind the parliamentary benches and we will express our dissatisfaction, we will express our disagreement and resentment over your leadership in such a way that we simply will not sit in the hall when you hold the meetings. Now, to the initial procedural proposal: I ask or suggest that you withdraw the current seat of chair to which of the Vice-Presidents or to the President of the National Assembly, who will, I believe, lead this meeting more fairly and more businessly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u75	Thank you very much for your proposal. You're gonna have to do this somewhere else. I estimate that I conduct the meeting properly, and in accordance with all the standards you have adopted, unfortunately, you do not respect them. And the challenges you can afford, but they can also lead to unloving things. This one was one of those today. We are now continuing to present the views of the groups of Members. Vojko Starović has the floor, which will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! They say change is the only constant. This is also confirmed by the changes suggested by the presence of the Coronavirus from day to day. The station is also becoming anti-korona packages of measures, already singing in line. In the SAB Group, we have made four important comments on the proposal of the PKP5. We also signed a number of other amendments to improve the law. And none of these amendments have already been adopted in a well-known manner on the parental committee. So much for cooperation and democratic dialogue. In the SAB Group, we are particularly saddened by the difficult situation in the area of accessibility of health care. Major problems are already at the primary level. Many patients do not enter the treatment at all. From April to today, the number of cancer patients who came into treatment declined by about a third. For six months, you had a respected government and a coalition to prepare and empower the health system for the new wave of the epidemic. At the same time, we really wonder if after the first wave of infections you really haven't learned anything. For both the spatial and the human resources situation in health care seem to be deteriorating. What you've been able to do at this time is prepare public health for privatisation. That's right. The privatisation extension is planned in the national call for reduction of waiting species. It provides for the financing of private individuals, fully marketed profit-making entities with public money, without any criteria or restrictions. In defence of public health in support of LMŠ and SD, we have tabled an amendment proposing a clear order whereby public money to reduce species is first intended to fill the capacity of public health institutions. The fact is that the capacities of public health institutions are in fact not occupied in many ways, because they are paid only by the health insurance agency in a limited amount of services, not by all the services required. Now that we have the opportunity to use European money to provide additional money to strengthen undernourished public health, we offer it without any criteria to market operators who are intended to generate profits on the market. Our proposal is as follows. If the public system, with its capacity and with additional funding, is currently unable to provide sufficient services to reduce waiting types, the capacity of concessionaires involved in the public health system shall also be included. If it turns out that this is not enough, public money should also be offered to market operators. The reduction of waiting lines with additional public money must certainly be addressed first within the public network of healthcare providers. We've built this network, we've trained it, and we've financed it all these years. With the amendment that we have tabled in the SAB together with others, we further define the criteria on which the Minister of Health determines the types of health services and their number. We are therefore responding to the real danger that a greater proportion of more demanding and financially burdensome services will be left to the public health service and private health operators will provide easier services, but with higher returns. In this I call on all esteemed colleagues to support the strengthening of public health, which has proved well in the covid-19 situation despite great financial undernutrition, and in particular our SMC colleagues, who, at the time of entry into this government coalition, will argue that they will defend public health. In the SAB, without taking into account a number of additional substantial comments which would significantly improve the law for all, we cannot support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Jurij Lep will present the position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministerial assembly with co-workers. I'm going to start by not having to do that, and all the credit is to Tadeji, that the lightning rod was here for two minutes. With the new package of measures ahead of us today, we are again addressing the affected groups of society most affected by covido-19 infections. The aid measures concern health, work, social protection, the economy, education and education, agriculture and infrastructure. The measures follow the principle of protecting human health and lives, ensuring social security, preserving jobs and ensuring the liquidity of economic operators. It is also obvious, even in the last days, that the infection is becoming more and more that the situation requires the extension of some of the measures already taken. With the measures already taken, the country's financial assistance measures have substantially eased economic distress and have effectively prevented the critical state of the picture of unemployment. We have also taken care of vulnerable groups that have received specific assistance. In the Desus Group, we are pleased that the first package of measures has also helped pensioners with the lowest pensions in the form of a single solidarity allowance. The measures also touch on various important and sensitive areas in our society this time. In the area of health care, however, they focus primarily on ensuring the accessibility of health services, providing sufficient personnel and sufficient protective equipment. The measures protect both healthcare workers and their users. In order to reduce waiting periods, the law allows the publication of a national invitation to tender to improve access to health services which can be applied to both public and private health institutions. This is a time-limited measure, the only purpose of which is to enable patients to be treated in a timely manner. I would like to point out that this is a temporary measure. To relieve doctors at the primary level, a three-day absence from work due to illness is temporarily allowed without medical confirmation. The proposal for a Health Employees Act provides for an allowance to pay for work in risky situations and for transfers due to urgent tasks and tasks. In the Desus Group we welcome the provision that the law will also offer free vaccination against seasonal flu to all citizens and citizens. In the area of home for the elderly, financial sustainability measures for the financing of protective equipment and the coverage of the cost of loss of income due to unsaturated capacity are introduced, among other things. With the package of measures under consideration today, self-employed and micro-enterprises which are unable to carry out or carry out activities as a result of the covid-19 epidemic are unable to carry out or carry out activities to a substantially reduced extent, even after the end of the covid-19 epidemic with October 1st, reintroduce the monthly basic allowance or income to which they were entitled during the declared epidemic. By the end of the year, they will be able to receive a thousand 100 euros a month. The measure also applies to self-employed people in culture. Only those self-employed who are otherwise entitled to the payment of contributions by the State will receive a smaller amount. The law, inter alia, assists occasional transport operators providing them with compensation for the costs they had from the beginning of the epidemic until 11 May, as they were not able to carry out transport operations at the time. The cost of vehicle protection equipment and disinfection will be reimbursed from the budget. In the Desus Group, we are pleased that the law in question also puts the care of the elderly and the prevention of the spread of infections with the new coronavirus at the forefront. In every crisis, we Slovenians prove that we are a nation that can step together and bridge every problem, so on this occasion we place our hearts on all citizens and citizens, that we also adhere consistently to the measures in the light of solidarity with the elderly and thus contribute to all of us in our environment to alleviating the consequences of the spread of infections. Of course, we will support the law in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u80	Good day to you all! In our position, I will focus only on two areas, health and social. Health first. The execution of a public health service call is an experiment that will have no effect. It is only the allocation of additional appropriations to those who have not done their work so far. If public health institutions have the capacity to work, we do not need any invitation to tender. Doctors are the best paid elite in our country anyway, and the effect is modest, and waiting periods are getting longer and longer. In health, billions are lost, and we still fill this bag with no bottom. The main problem in health is not money, but organization and lack of staff. Instead of dealing with Desus, the Minister of Health would rather tell us how much he has improved in health care during the last half of the year and how many additional health personnel he has employed. Do we have a list of all the fans and masks? Dearly beloved, China built two hospitals in less than fourteen days. How many health facilities has Slovenia acquired in the last six months? These are the real questions that this bill does not address, and I should certainly have. In the SNS, we strongly oppose the use of budgetary resources for foreigners who do not have a residence in Slovenia and are quarantined and have no possibility of returning to the country of residence. These foreigners should be expelled from the country. We do not want foreigners to endanger our inhabitants. Under this law, Slovenia will have to pay accommodation and sanitary transport costs up to the accommodation capacity and health treatment. These are completely unnecessary costs. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the measures in some areas are very strict, while in others they are completely loose. Let me give you just one example. They're supposed to keep a good distance in closed spaces, while people are squeezing on buses. We have a fine example of the summer of how pensioners had free transportation from Ljubljana to Portorož and even had to send police to the bus station in Ljubljana because it was so crowded. Instead of being assisted by bus carriers, it is better to pay them to take care of additional transport and to have fewer passengers on the bus, but more lines. I'm afraid the fall and winter will bring more infections and more deaths due to covid-19 than it was in the spring. And now social services. We are pleased to learn that this government will have a long-term negative impact on the state budget, even on those who did not need it, in the spring. The aid to the economy and individuals should be different, given the share of the decline in income. Exceptional assistance in the form of monthly basic income is a poor motivation for all who could work, and perhaps it is because of this help that they will not. All those who earn less than €1,100 a month will rather be at home, paid by the state or by us taxpayers. Why work if they can earn the same or higher income for the week? Basic income should be tied according to the type of industry, since not all sectors have been equally affected. In the Slovenian National Party, we appeal to the Government to ensure that, despite the presence of covid-19 in our society, there is no restriction on the work of everyone who is healthy. Whoever works will not be sick or need state aid. In order to be as less infected as possible, however, we urge people to take all the measures of the profession into account, since we are primarily responsible for our health. Thank you for your obedience.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB groups of Members and the amendment of the Levica Group of Ambassadors. Would you like to speak to the proposer? Here you go, Minister Janez Brickler King.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much to all those who have presented the views of the Group. Some concerns were expressed in these views, some alternative proposals. Believe me, both at the Ministry of Labour and colleagues in other departments and within the Government, including with the consultative group, we have carefully considered the proposed measures. Even in the negotiating group with the social partners, we have thoroughly reviewed them, coordinated them and listened to them in a variety of ways, due to changing and rapidly changing epidemiological conditions and economic needs, and I am also stressing the small economy, entrepreneurs, as well. You have also observed this during the consideration of the PKP5 package on the committee responsible, by assessing that this package, as proposed, is optimal for us to now, at this point in time logically continue with the previous four packages to start the action and the starting path. Let me say that the response of the economy, the domestic economy, experts, economists, even after the analysis of Umarje and the international institutions has so far taken an optimal path, acted quickly and effectively, to protect the health and life of the inhabitants. We are also extremely grateful for the participation of all citizens and citizens. Taking a stand together, acting preventively and taking care of the most vulnerable to protect the most vulnerable in our society is our common duty and only together can we be successful. We continue with the PKP5 as I said, some of the measures taken in the previous four anti-coronapacks that have been assessed and their effects are good. In fact, at the recent conference on the 10th anniversary of Slovenia's membership in the OECD, the Secretary-General of the OECD also pointed out that we have managed to preserve a large number of jobs, which is essential, and to protect the health and lives of people, especially the most vulnerable. At the same time, we add a few measures that we estimate are necessary in order to help the economy and employees in these months of the fall, in these circumstances, when the epidemiological picture, of course, is sharpened. The situation is certainly not catastrophic, but it is serious. However, they are serious and you can see that all those responsible are really trying, and we are trying, in particular, to invite all citizens and citizens to act responsibly. These measures in the PKP5 will also continue to support the functioning of the company. You can also see that we are constantly weighing that measures will be as viable and as effective as possible at the same time. Perhaps because of the branches in the debate; the debate highlighted whether the possibility of using tourist vouchers would be added in the coming year. I can tell you that with the amendments we will propose this option. The possibility will be possible if, at the end of the year, in the last month, the Government assesses that this is necessary and, of course, because we are also responding to this because we are limiting hospitality, tourism in some regions with today or tomorrow, we have foreseen this possibility and the Government will be able to decide and extend the validity of the voucher by 1 year. Perhaps I would suggest that a colleague of the Minister of Public Administration explain the provisions on mobile applications. So, in this place, thank you all for the views presented, and I will now be paying attention, we will all closely follow the debate on the law together.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u84	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, fellow Brickman King. I am pleased that this time there were no amendments to the opposition's application provisions on the committee. This means that for a little while now we have been able to resolve those concerns or doubts. However, I would like to point out a few things, very briefly. These provisions of Articles 44 to 52 further specify the legal basis for the operation of the application provided for in the General Data Protection Regulation, so that the GDPR is respected here. Once again, the use of the app is completely voluntary. We have explicitly laid down in Article 52 that these provisions, this time, do not affect or apply to our application. We have appointed a common controller of personal data, i.e. the Ministry of Public Administration and the NIJZ, who do not have most of the data. These data are decentralisedly available on a single telephone apparatus. What I would stress is that the data collected is also determined to disappear after 14 days. So I think and believe also after the responses of the information officer that there are no problems and doubts, there are no concerns. As I have pointed out many times before, Germany has not established the legal basis for a practical identical application, but it is crucial for us to increase the confidence of citizens and citizens in this application, in the protection of privacy with it, and we have therefore decided to take this step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Minister Bostian Koritnik. Anybody want a debate? Yeah, we'll start the application, the procedure. I'm asking you to sign up. Four reported. First he gets the word Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Chairman. I hope that I am allowed in accordance with parliamentary practice to discuss, even if this is the third time, in Article 1 of the amendment, a slightly broader way in which I will touch myself in my debate in the essence of the whole package, such as it is. Why? Because in the SMC, it seems extremely important that we have found some solutions in this package, for which we have failed to find some consensus in previous packages, where we are also correcting some of the things that have proved to be true at this time that we simply need to fix them, which is also right. Laws are living matter and it is right to respond and change according to what is happening on the ground. We have, of course, heard a lot of readings at this time, as I have already said in the position of the Group of Members, what should still be in this package, which should not be in this package. The fact is that, of course, because the law is living matter, the legislative process itself has been complementary and changing. This is nothing unusual, this is something that we at the SMC, on the contrary, even feel very welcome to take into account observations, comments in the meantime. You know, he knows more heads, and it's getting better. However, there are certain things in this package that we have always warned about in the Modern Centre Party and in which we also have a little bit of ears. And Article 3 is already one of those. This Article, of course, refers to the extension of the transitional period during which healthcare providers must designate the responsible health operator in order to provide health services. This is a law which has established this transitional period already in 2017, and a transitional period has been set for this regulation until the end of this year. Now there has been an extension of this transitional period for an additional period in this text, but we in the SMC believe that, given the situation on the ground, the extension of the transitional period is obviously necessary, but not for as long a period of time as originally envisaged. That is why, of course, we have proposed that this word should be replaced by the word five by the end of 2023 and thus give the contractors the opportunity to settle the matter. Why did we make that decision? Because we have received information and information from the competent Ministry of Health that in this unregulated situation the responsible institution has not been found, as stated in the debates, solely and only private operators, but also public health homes, especially in the light of lack of staff, in the light of the lack of family doctors, we know that there is a particular problem. I have also spoken in the field with many public health institutions, and this information has been confirmed to me. That is why we believe, and this has also been the assurance of the competent minister that two additional years are fully sufficient for the health centres to handle these matters. If I'm going to move on to Article 4. Article 4 speaks of an extension of the transitional period when the so-called physicians of amphibians, which we talk about more than once, are therefore those who are employed in public health institutions, and in the afternoon even with private operators, can work after hours, now I speak unlimitedly. We feel, of course, that there is no need and that eight hours, as also laid down by the law, should enter into force with 1. 1. 2021 that eight hours for such an operation in the afternoon or at any other time is entirely sufficient for these doctors and for providers who provide the services to do everything necessary within these eight hours of the week. Then, if I continue, some of the content still contained in this package is about exempting the payment of taxes and contributions to the hazard allowance and special burdens. In the PKP3 package of measures, SMC proposed and wanted, and I am pleased to hear that, it suggested that civil protection members and volunteers also receive an additional 10 to 30 Euro threat and special burdens. We are therefore talking about interventions during the time of the coronary crisis, when volunteers have also been exposed to special dangers and burdens, i.e. the possibility of covid-19 infection in traffic accidents, fires, weather events and so on. Since the matter is risky, we felt it was appropriate for volunteers to receive this supplement as well. But what later turned out to be, and that is why we are now correcting this, is that this addition of EUR 30 under tax legislation is, of course, subject to payment of income and contributions, which we do not think is right. It is a one-off payment, something that has actually been done on the ground and that this small supplement would have been further reduced by paying the contribution, but it does not seem fair to us. Therefore, here in the fifth package it is stipulated that this supplement is justified in the payment of taxes and contributions, and additional police officers are added. The following matter, of course, came from the field. We have been repeatedly warned, Members of our parliamentary group, that the 60-day payment period that has been set in the second anti-korona package and is applicable to claims made by public service providers, which are largely financed by non-disclosure resources, is that late payment represents liquidity problems for many of them. The information on the ground is that there are already difficulties in not paying, at late payments, but now this additional 60-day deadline further exacerbates the situation, of course prolongs the payment deadline and thus puts into liquidity problems kindergartens, homes for older citizens, student homes, schools and so on. Therefore, on our proposal, it has also been introduced into the law, and for natural persons I now say that this 60-day payment period does not apply to natural persons. Then we are very pleased that the text of this package has also introduced the equalisation of remuneration for quarantine for those parents whose children are quarantined and, of course, need protection and have been in an unequal position so far. From now on, this proposal foresees that parents of a child who is quarantined will also receive compensation of 80% of their salary. After a further review of this content, we found that the foster parents were unwittingly released, which then added to the amendment to the text itself. Of course, it is also those who exercise such protection for such children. However, we were a little surprised that in fact there was no immediate obedience for individual entrepreneurs, of course, even individual entrepreneurs have children and in our opinion these are certainly, like everyone else, entitled to this compensation. However, we then welcome a solution that is extremely important to self-employed people and has been given ear by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. However, it is a partially recovered lost income for self-employed persons for the duration of quarantine at home. For these purposes, a flat rate of EUR 250 or an appropriate proportional duration of quarantine has been set, which seems to us to be an extremely welcome solution. In addition, what was difficult to expect, which was all the time, was warnings from the field, not only from self-employed people in culture, but also from representatives of the meeting industry, so this package introduces a monthly base income of EUR 1000 for all these self-employed people. What is particularly gratifying is today’s amendment, which, in fact, will include those who have established their esperies after that first cut date on March 12 and 13. According to our data, almost 7,000 more here, once again, for almost 7,000, which is a very large number of self-employed people who will also now receive monthly basic income on the basis of this package. And of course, to draw attention to that main observation of the opposition, which was that it wanted to go with reduced monthly basic income, I will say, even the self-employed in culture. Of course, this was a mistake, which has been lifted with the amendment and the self-employed in culture will, of course, receive thousands of euros in contributions not paid by the State. However, those who are still paid by the State will, of course, be paid for a corresponding reduced amount. If I continue with another very important topic of this anti-Korona legislation, free vaccination against influenza. I think that here, however, we can all come together in this room and really welcome this measure. We have listened all the time, we still listen to the warnings of the profession that in autumn and winter we are, of course, particularly exposed to additional risks due to all other cold and respiratory diseases. And the flu is certainly the factor that the profession says can cause even greater problems with covid in those who might get sick both for the flu and for the covid. Moreover, it is very difficult to distinguish between the signs of one disease and another, so we welcome the solution. It seems to us that free vaccination has been introduced for all compulsory health insurance insurers. Of course, I appeal to all of us in this room first, and then, of course, to all those who accompany us, to take this opportunity together in as many ways as possible, and at least in this way help to infect us or, I will say, to a better outcome because of the covido situation. It is also important to note the determination of the income line for those who will receive compensation for waiting for work, that we have also harmonised and corrected this income drop, which was set at 30 per cent to 20 per cent in the text itself. Therefore, more beneficiaries will be eligible for these funds. It means 20% of the decline in revenue from 2020, compared to 2019, which we also think is important that as many people as possible can ask for such assistance and, of course, receive it. In addition, I may draw attention to what was concluded at the last meeting of the Government yesterday, in view of the situation, in view of the additional measures to be taken and the inability to cash in tourist vouchers, the possibility of extending the validity of these vouchers up to 12 months is added. Of course, we think it's the right thing to do. The vouchers have proved to be an extremely effective measure. In the field, when I walk, I listen to basically the praises and thanks of individual providers of tourist services who say that tourist vouchers were really the right thing to do. Some also offer their services in countries where such assistance has not been received and report on the significant difference between how they stand with their companies, with capacities in Slovenia, and are in an incomparable position with those they also have abroad. Regardless of the fact that all the vouchers have not yet been cashed, it seems appropriate for us to extend the possibility of monetaryisation accordingly. Now, if I may say another word about the repeal of the Single Price Act. We have, as you know, pointed out, of course, that the entire repeal of the law in this anti-korona package certainly does not seem to be an appropriate measure. We also responded immediately and obtained further explanations, additional reasons from the Ministry of Culture. Although the argument was made that we also received copies of the letters they received from the Ministry of Culture, from which it was actually evident that small publications pointed out that their sales in anti-Korron times were completely disabled, that they did not actually sell any books and that they wanted to be offered the opportunity to be a little bit more, I will say, flexible that we can actually expect such a measure to help at least at this time somehow to these small publishers. From this point of view, of course, we agreed to introduce this freeze in this package as a temporary measure, with a period of validity of 18 months. By no means, and I repeat, but by no means can we agree to the SMC, that in this law it will be permanently and forever without arguments, without analysis, without numbers and without any broad consensus of stakeholders, completely and permanently end such a law. I am pleased that the Ministry has also listened to our arguments and that, of course, we have found some consensus that we have limited the timeliness of this measure. However, we certainly support if the ministry decides to have a broader debate on this issue, if analyses are made to show that the law is not and does not achieve the desired objectives, the desired effect that it may or may not constitute a barrier to the market. We allow the possibility to one side or the other, but we have no reservations that, based on documents, arguments, analyses and so on, we will come to a decision on what this law means. Whether it needs to be corrected, corrected, addressed, or otherwise addressed, some of the bad things that are in it. However, it is certain that a permanent repeal cannot be the subject of measures in this package. Now, here is the last thing that I have pointed to in fact also when dealing with an interested working body, which is Article 13. Article 13 of the Legislative and Legal Service has made it very clear that this is a potentially constitutionally controversial provision which should in fact be subject to weighing in terms of whether it is a permissible interference with the constitutional rights of citizens and citizens or whether such an intervention is appropriate and necessary. This is of course, I am talking about the private spaces that these measures should apply to, and for very, I will say, an undefined and dictatorially flawed article in this proposal. Of course, we then pointed to this and expected to comply with the legislative and legal service with the amendment. We have also waited for this amendment today, examined it thoroughly, also asked for an additional Legal and Legislative Service for their position, and we also asked the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Public Administration. And we must say that we feel that the dictatorship of this article is still not appropriate. Once again, this is a constitutionally protected category of the right to privacy. For the time being, access to an apartment can't be allowed to anyone at any time. For the time being, there is still a need for a judicial regulation. And it seems to us that in reality it continues to do so. I would point out here to this distinction in a private place and a public place, because I understand the intention that it is necessary to put in place control in private spaces if we understand them in English as they are written, I will say so. In fact, in the SMC, we believe that a public place is a term that is, in fact, already well established and which means every space that is accessible to everyone without any special conditions, if we understand the difference now. And the private space, of course, is that space that is privately owned and privately owned and only the owner can allow someone to enter it. But there are also private spaces in which everyone can enter, these are restaurants, cinemas and so on, and these established ones are, of course, perceived as a public place by now, regardless of the fact that property is actually private. From this point of view, to talk about private premises and to intervene in private spaces in the sense of checking whether in these private spaces, which are owned by private individuals and are accessible only under certain conditions, it takes into account anti-korona measures, whether people in there wear masks and so on, and it seems unacceptable to us. And, of course, we also did not sign the amendment to Article 13. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc, get Moica the Boxer ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Dear representatives of the Government, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members! Allow me to intrude, however, on the event that took place here in the National Assembly less than an hour ago, that is, what Vice-President Tanko has allowed is unacceptable and is not worth the institution of the National Assembly. In fact, he allowed himself first to comment on the views of the parliamentary groups only because within the position of the individual parliamentary group, opposition of course, there was some criticism of the government. That's unacceptable. And then he did not allow a debate between Members and Members, that is, he did not approve or give word, procedurally to Members and Members. This is really unacceptable, it is shameful for this institution and Mr Tanko is no longer worthy of being Vice-President of the National Assembly. That is why all Members and Members of the democratic opposition have left the meeting of the National Assembly in protest as long as this meeting is chaired by Mr Tanko. Fortunately, there's been a switch. However, we expect the President of this institution to make order or to allow the normal work of the National Assembly to be done without delay – we expect him to be suspended. You know, what's going on with democracy, this violation of fundamental democratic standards in the Republic of Slovenia, since Janez Janša's reign, is really unacceptable. And I'm worried, I don't want my kids to live in this kind of society. In fact, we are going back to the times that I believed we would never enter again — in the 1930s, when Fascism and Nazism raged throughout Europe. I apologize for this emotional introduction, but what is happening is truly terrifying, and it is high time that this practice is concluded and that the country enters the normal tracks again. Even more important is the fact that we are in a very difficult time, in times of severe health crisis, when people are concerned when they do not know what will happen tomorrow, what will happen to their future. This health crisis has also brought along a severe economic and economic crisis. The situation should therefore be calmed down even further. Politics should give people hope, trust. Some trust in people, but not this extraordinary situation, which this Jancist dictatorship shows to the public from day to day. Yesterday we reached the peak of the number of infected citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. And instead of getting citizens and citizens to have some credible answers and a plan of action on how to stop or limit this pandemic, we were once again witnessing confusional information, first of all the President of the Government, then the so-called government spokesman, Mr Kacin, who thinks that war is in the 1990s, without being a health crisis. In short, we didn't get clear instructions on how and what. Someone says schools will close from the fifth grade forward, one from the sixth grade, and so on. And again, it turns out that it's obviously the last thing the Government of the Republic of Slovenia listens to. Let me now focus a little more specifically on this specific law of the CAP5. We have taken a constructive approach to all the anti-Korona laws so-called laws that are trying to mitigate the consequences of the health crisis. We have proposed, together with the entire democratic opposition, a number of amendments and additions, but unfortunately we have been completely unheard of by the government majority. This was also the case with this last package called PKP5. The Committee on Labour, according to the committee responsible, had a long debate, a quality debate. We have proposed many amendments, unfortunately the government majority, the Janhistian voting machine beat all the amendments as a bulldozer. Many of the things in this law are urgently needed and are good, they mean helping the economy, they mean social assistance to the most vulnerable, they mean providing basic income to independent entrepreneurs, they mean helping those groups of employees who work because of the crisis under special conditions, they are said to be most exposed to the virus. And many other good solutions. However, as always, this law also contains a number of unacceptable things, unacceptable from the point of view of the Constitution and unacceptable also for the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which they could, if they did not go through with democracy in a Janhistically, fully believe and follow its instructions and instructions. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has made, here, such a package of comments. The comment is almost more than articles, so to speak, a comment has been made on each article. Very serious comments, even in the direction that certain measures are anti-constitutional, but the Jancist voting machine is just slightly revitalized. So because of certain things that are unacceptable, such as the possibility of the police and inspectors reaching out to private premises, it is said in private apartments, which was clearly known to be unconstitutional, but nevertheless this was stipulated in the law remained. And increasing the powers of the police regarding quarantine, even the police union has asked not to impose on the police tasks that the police are neither competent nor adequately staffed and for which they are not paid additionally, but apparently this does not convince the representatives of the government coalition. Worse still, such powers were intended to encourage the National Health Institute, NIJZ, which is also not competent and does not have people to carry out inspections. What is the worst thing about this bill, however, is that you want to literally eliminate public health through the provisions at the expense of private health care. It's kind of logical for you. After all, your basic programme is simply that it is not public good that it is necessary to fill and give power to private, private schools and, of course, private health institutions. But, you know, the fact that under the cover of the epidemic, you want to destroy public health, you want to go through a call that will be decided by the Minister of Health himself, 50 million euros by private people, which is really unacceptable for the Social Democrats. I agree that waiting types need to be reduced, in any way, but additional resources should be invested in public health, in strengthening the quality of the public, not in making the drain available to the private. This is unacceptable to us and, of course, this law will not be supported absolutely. Unless, during the debate today, during the adoption of the supplement, we have tabled a number of additions, but it does not prove that you will hear all our comments. I'd like to touch you for maybe another minute in the field of education. In fact, in the introduction, I said that it obviously reexamines after what we were able to hear yesterday by the President of the Government and by Mr Kacin that some of the measures in education are being implemented in a timely manner, without consultation with the profession and with the parents, teachers and so on. In fact, we were able to learn from the media that the third triad in primary school and all secondary schools will be closed again Monday. The profession believes that it would be right for a number of other intermediate possible measures, such as teaching alternately in school and at home, to be physically present for one week in school, is said to have worked one week from home to be much more appropriate than total closure, which is, of course, the easiest. But apparently the government doesn't listen to all these recommendations. The second thing is specifically about this law, and the Social Democrats have already tabled an amendment on the committee and again today to provide funding for protective equipment for students as well. In fact, if we provide equipment to a number of other groups and if it is, in effect, mandatory, or at least very recommended, wearing a mask in schools, it would be appropriate for the State to provide these matters. We hope and believe that in the end you will listen to all our complements. Otherwise, as it is said, trust is crucial and with such behaviour, with such manners as you say through the operation of both the Government and coalition Members, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia unfortunately cannot cultivate any confidence in you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca the Boxer. Get Jani Möderndorfer ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Allow me, as did the first debate, to discuss Article 1 more. Initially, I would like to touch myself, like my predecessor, the events of the National Assembly, when the left side of the National Assembly was knocking on tables, breaking down and shouting, in short, acting totally inappropriate. I must say that both Mark Koprivec and I are sitting in a city council run by Mayor Jankovic, and Mr Marko Koprivc is never protesting, let alone hoping to tell the mayor that he is not worthy to be suspended, although Mr Jankovic takes the floor after 10 seconds when he arbitrarily decides that the content of the debate or the replica does not correspond to the subject under discussion. Everything is taken, available in the archive on the city house website. I would like to draw attention to the duality of the assessment of how the meeting is conducted. I'm also not happy with someone condemning me as a Jancist voting machine. Excuse me, I am Mojca Škrnjar, an honest citizen who thinks with his head and does what he thinks is fair and fair and effective and legal. Now, if you'll allow me to get married. The public money syntagma is one of the synthages that alienated people. What about public money when we talk about health care? Public money - public money does not exist. Public money is our money, my money, yours, from every electorate, it's private money that we give as health insurance contributions as taxes for the functioning of the state. It's not public money. This is the money of our citizens, each individual. We have elected our representatives operating operationally in the form of a government, and they are managing our money. I am pleased that the health chapter includes more opportunities to include as many possibilities as possible to extend the range of healthcare providers. Health workers work full-time and are not yet sufficient and will be even less sufficient to cover all the services needed to ensure the well-being of all citizens and citizens. I do not care whether the health service is provided by a private person, a concessionaire or a public health care institution or a public hospital. All I care about is that I get a quick, quality health service when I need it and that this health service is within the scope of the options offered by the State or chosen by our contributions and taxes to the citizens. And that's all that matters. But I do know that privates are very careful with how they procure material, and I know that it's still not cleared, and that those who spent money on some cords that were overpaid 10 times have still not responded. I've never heard of any private paying for medical supplies. So we have full confidence in our privates. But what I want is, of course, for all those who need any health care at any time to reach it at a normal time. What I like very much about this law is that the Ministry of Public Administration has perfectly justified the application Stay healthy. The process of operation is described very well and personal data protection is described at the same time. This is a sensitive topic and it is right that it is very well-founded. Really, all congratulations on that. At the same time, I would like to invite all citizens and citizens to download this app to stay healthy. We protect ourselves and others with it. And when you protect yourself by protecting others, of course, you offer a way out of this crisis that has unfortunately happened to us. I welcome the help of individuals, employees, in particular parents who will receive an 80 % increase in remuneration instead of 50% for children in quarantine. At the same time, I welcome the extension of the short-term subsidy measure. This helps the economy. The economy is helped not only by this but also by many other measures. One of these is the help to guests, hoteliers, tourist providers to extend the voucher for one year. We can also use the vouchers in winter months to help the economy in this area survive and get stronger. The tourist vouchers proved to be an extremely good thing and in fact helped us to travel more in Slovenia and to benefit more from Slovenian services than we could have. It also seems effective to me that a measure of quarantine is able to express it orally in order to make a mark, thus, of course, protecting the measure from abuse. There's something else I'd like to say about the book. If I've talked about public money syntagma before, we can also talk about culture now. Culture, I think sometimes it's like it's become property, that it's in the domain of a narrow circle of self-callers. The idea is sometimes that there is only an avant-garde culture that creates for itself, not for citizens and citizens. In view of the fact that the book is accessible, it is also good that the price is available. And the temporary suspension of the book’s first 6 months is, of course, an incentive for all those who can and will be able to buy books even in these 6 months at a reduced price. The book was very welcome during the general quarantine period, and it is right to be more accessible. What, though, is the purpose of the book? Who's the book for? Is it for a writer, a publisher or a bookstore? The book is for us, readers and readers. And the goal is, of course, to make as many people as possible read, namely quality literature, and to support the purchase of quality literature, especially those created in the Slovenian language. That is why this measure is more than useful, while protecting both bookstores and, of course, helping publishers as well. I also need to respond to allegations of school measures if they are inadequate. I think the measures are expected. They are no different than they were in the past period or nicer than they were in the spring. About the profession - I'm sure the minister consulted with the expert. You know, the profession isn't just Mr Struckle, which, of course, he recommended if I remember well how not to wear masks in school. Of course, parents followed this rather closely, not all parents, and demanded that children not wear masks. Today we have what we have. So much for the profession. There's a number of different types, you know, and the union isn't very professional. As far as the profession is concerned, the teachers did a very good spring work. I'm sure they'll do this fall part, too. But to be possible other solutions, as I have heard from a respected predecessor, I don't believe. In fact, you can't do shift lessons if you have a first and second triad, it's said, the whole triad is the first, second, third, fourth and fifth classes. I've understood very well that since fifth grade, it's been the sixth grade. So, fifth grade is still in school, sixth grade is home and seven, eight, nine. So if you have the first five classes in school, then these five classes are probably split into halves and they're sitting all over the school. We should also not forget the extended stay, which normally lasts until 16.30, some departments are still in operation until 17:00, some are closed and so on. In this way, of course, it is not possible to make two changes, unless, of course, the parents were again imprisoned, and that would, of course, bring very high costs. I am also convinced that in secondary schools, in subjects where students are divided into smaller groups, there is a practical work that can also be seen where distances and, of course, individual work can also be provided. So I expect that the measures in education will work as well as they did in the spring. We know that this method of work has brought quite a few new lessons to teachers. And the teachers, if we remember, were pleased with this work, and in the end, the disciples, the disciples, and the parents. If we all try and maybe do things a little differently than we've been told, as we've been told through public RTV, different rappers of gold, different influents, like brands run, and, of course, the union itself, then we'll take the measures into account. That's how they'll be taken into account in school. And I believe that we will come out of this crisis quite quickly and in good condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u91	Replica, mag. Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs Škrynjar, first of all I know that you know the good field of education, so from this point of view I absolutely appreciate your opinion, but I cannot agree with your observation that I myself see as an expert only Mr Struklj – this is absolutely not true. Although I respect Mr Struckle, he's not the only one, and I didn't have him in mind. Yesterday, the president of the Association of High School Directors, Mrs. Nives Pockar, on national television, mentioned, among other things, that this model of complete school closure was not true and that they, as an expert, proposed this so-called variable teaching or teaching, where some of the high school students — about secondary schools — were being kept alive — said to have been physically present and part through Skype or distance. This would reduce the number of children in schools, while maintaining some continuity of learning. Because it turned out in the spring time that distance learning could by no means replace normal regular learning. At the same time, the indicators show, but I don't want to judge, really, but the kids in school weren't the main vectors of the virus. But as a matter of fact, let the profession decide. In no way is there just one or only another option, there are some intermediate solutions that are likely to be the most appropriate after they are carefully weighed. Now, as far as the city of Ljubljana and our operations in the city world are concerned, I am very proud to be a member of this city council, I am proud to be a Ljubljanaer. Ljubljana is a city hero, an open, advanced city. You could be a lot of examples of how your government works and someone else. Mr. Mayor Jankovic may ever be [[advertising from the hall]] It's hard to manage meetings, but never. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u93	Mr. Koprivc [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u94	but never, revered vice president, insulted as he was today [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u95	I'm asking you to stick to the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u96	Mr. Tanko. [[…]] He's never insulting. And Ljubljana can be an example to many people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u97	Mr Koprivc, please respect Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure and discuss or have a replica of the agenda, not what you do on the city council of Ljubljana [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you very much. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, but what you're saying right now is total nonsense. By the way, I was in charge of Mrs. Shriner. Did I go after Jankovic or her? I responded exclusively to her attack that I don't know what kind of city council leader Zoran Jankovic is. I replied, and I can repeat once again that Mr Zoran Jankovic is not offensive in the management of the city council. At the same time, I told Mrs Škrnjar that the city of Ljubljana could be an example of the functioning of your government. It is open, free of charge and respects each individual and individual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u99	What's your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u100	Mr Vice-President, my procedural proposal is that you stick to the rules of procedure when chairing the meeting and that you do not fall into the words of Members and Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u101	I won't discuss it with you again. Let's move on. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I have to say, I have to smile at this interpretation, what, who, what he's saying and what he's not saying. And I'm not going to comment because I'm afraid I'm going to wake up a new wave again. But I will, of course, respond in my debate to what, of course, I can now. Mrs Škrnjar, the colleague has now debated and, of course, since she has already discussed it, I can also comment, because we usually have a broad debate within Article 1 on the bill itself. It would be nice to clear up the basics before we talk, that's what I always say, it's nice if we all speak the same alphabet first. Because if we don't speak the same alphabet, then we don't even know what we're talking about. And in her introduction, colleague Škrnjar made it very clear that money is in health cash and that it is our money and that we will decide where we can go and where not, which health service we will provide. I must say that I am extremely disappointed because Mrs Škrynjar, after so many years, still does not understand what tax is, but what is a voluntary decision. So, Mrs Škrynjar, what you pay insurance for your car is your decision and you choose insurance and so on. What they take away from you is that most people, if asked, would not give anything for it, and the state has therefore decided that this is a compulsory duty, as we call it. And once this tax was in the budget, you won't believe it. And if it was in the budget, what does that mean, it's private money? No, the moment they take your money, it becomes public funds. Bad news is, if that were the case, then because we're also paying for different contributions, according to the percentage of wages and so on, then you'd like to have a little bit more for this money than someone else who pays a little less, and similar nonsense then follow from this way of thinking. Why am I bringing this up? I'm mentioning mainly because if we don't have the same alphabet, then it looks like we're talking through each other and we're talking purely about things that have nothing to do with anything. Why did Mrs. Shrimp mention that? Yeah, of course, for one simple reason, because she wants all the money to go the way it does, because she thinks it's right, to the doctor where she'll decide. Yes, then by this logic, as you imagine, the waiting line will not come to the doctor for ten years, because only one five, ten doctors will work because they will think because of the promotion, cash and coffee they get in the waiting room that this is the best service on this planet. [[…]] What, of course, you envisioned by law in the PKP to introduce, which is a serious problem. In particular, I am talking about the part where we would very much like to extend this obligation of the health care provider. I must point out once again, many people do not understand this, the health care provider does not mean that he is the only one who can also provide health services, but is responsible for the programme that he has been given – you will not believe Mrs Škrinjarov – with public money, not with private money. That is why we have a health care provider that is mandatory. And you won't believe it, it's not the invention of Slovenian space or some socialism, and I don't know what else you like to do, but especially the decision in the European Union of all countries, because it's become a total mess, what does it mean by a health care provider. Therefore, in 2017 we decided and recorded that it must be in a transitional period, first of all three years, until 2019 in order to appoint a healthcare provider. And what happened? In all these three years, they have been under-represented because some procedure has to start because nothing happens in this country on its own, and so in 2019 we extended this deadline for another year and we said, but now it is enough. What exactly is the problem with this extension? Well, let's open the cards on the table and tell what's really going on. Today we have a private company called, I don't know, a river health home, the owner is a private person who is not a doctor at all, or a doctor, but does not carry out his profession, whatever, and is not a health care provider, but he has three, four doctors on contract who provide certain services. And this owner decided to compete with the health treasury on the basis of a public funds concession. You won't believe it, for public funds! The reason is that he knows that he will be able to get patients in this way, and he will be able to provide his services or the company will operate, and he will sign a contract with doctors who will run certain programs. But you know what the problem is? The problem is that, let's say, for those programs he got from the health department, he doesn't have people there who would provide these services, but once a hire, one another and so on. The holder, who is responsible for leading this programme, is really going to be using it in accordance with what he got, but it's not in this company. It is therefore necessary to designate a health care provider. What are you talking about? However, you explain that a doctor who has completed his specialization, and before that, a medical faculty, cannot provide medical services when he is not a health care provider. Do you know what that is? It's just a fat lie. Anyone who completes a medical school and completes a specialty may provide independent medical services. But he can't become a health care provider right away. Why not? Because even in Germany he can't. You won't believe it, everyone likes to refer to Germany, even in Germany it can't, because it's expected to acquire certain practices and certain habits that he hasn't gotten yet during his specialization. During his specialization he received only a review through all the different programmes being implemented, and the good news is that today there is a serious professional discussion because we would like to see a major part of the specialisation in where they will later work. Why are you putting this in PKP5 today? Why are you even putting in this extension? First you proposed an eight-year extension, now you've come up with an amendment to shorten the fact that it's only two years. And we suggest that we extend it for just one more year, because whoever didn't want to do it in four years won't do it in eight or ten years, because he can't. However, you would like to do so for one reason because you are at the same time tendering for funds to be allocated to them, but you know that they will not be received if they are not health professionals because they are unable to sign up. That's why you're doing this because within a month, they're running out of time to become health care providers. And that's the key problem. I want to have a doctor who has a specialty and has a program to pay for my health care that they will do on me, including a clearly defined health care provider, in order to make it clear who drinks and who pays without doing anything on the screwdriver. And that's the key problem. Health care providers in public institutions have long-established health care providers. You know why? Because they have employees. And they don't want to hire them because they're cheaper because they're showing it as a cost, not as a labor force. We all know these machinations that they do for more money, and then they say they work with profits, and the public agency doesn't know how to do it with profits. Of course not, because I'd like to bypass all marriages. And that's the key problem. Well, then we have another problem, a very problematic one, which we would like to introduce into the whole matter when you're taking action. I've been listening to the debate today, so let's cut the waiting lines. Come on, I'm in, of course, absolutely. But tell me, why aren't privates involved in reducing the problem that arises with covid? Why are we only doing this in public institutions? Why aren't privates doing this? Why do only doctors in public institutions have to work and be threatened with covid? Why do miracle doctors in the private sector get sick and are at the hospital and have doors closed? There are also contraventions, which, of course, I also play. This is, in particular, just yesterday, a dentist with a concession wanted to help in the month of May in emergency dental cases, in suits and so on. Do you think they approved him to go to work? No! No! Because they thought it was a difference and they simply couldn't pay it because they didn't have a legal basis. The government hasn't solved it until today. I don't see it in PKP5, not in fours, not in threes, not in twos of this problem to solve it. And you know what this dentist told me? He said to me: “I wanted to go as a volunteer, but they said they had no legal basis for this to happen again.” Of course, there is another truth – a private dentist will never go to the 53rd pay grade for covid-19 to work, never, ever! These are the key issues. Where do we have this in PKP 5 to solve these problems? Where do we put this? No, we deal with the vouchers, that's the key problem now. And this morning, I am reading Work, Twitter publishes the following information: "It will be an exception for those who have vouchers so that they can pass through closed regions." Let me know where that logic is! But won't the virus touch those who go on vacation to use the vouchers? Instead of freezing them, they'd be extended and things would be resolved. But someone is concerned that his pocket will not, of course, be affected during the crisis. On the other hand, we'd love to close the place down, but it's all connected, and I don't know what else, anything that can be closed. You will take this country and the economy by reckless measures. That's your key problem. I understand you're barking because you have to bark because the government has proposed. Where do you hope to tell your boss no? And you'll just scream until you pass out as long as you can. But, you know, the problem will be because in four, five years, we'll remind you every time, just like we reminded you about the Zuyf you made in 2012, and we'll just set you up with a mirror where the problems are. Let's see this moment of truth. The next thing I know, it's crucial, it's problematic, and it screams to heaven, but it's a violation of the constitution. You know, I don't need to be pushed and explained in private, like I heard today, that we can't read it in this type of language, if you want to know which rooms are private. Really? Let me know, lawyers, what the word "private" means. That means what? When I close the bar door, it becomes private. But how? What about the apartment? Is this a private space or not? Because you didn't make it clear in the law that this isn't about housing. Moreover, the Constitution speaks very clearly, and let someone explain to me Article 36: “The dwelling is untouchable. No one shall enter a foreign residence or other premises without a court decision against the will of the occupant, nor shall they be investigated. In the course of the investigation, the person whose residence or premises are being investigated or his representative is entitled to be present. The investigation should be conducted only in the presence of two witnesses.” Now comes the part that is interesting because of this law: “Under the conditions laid down by law, an official may enter a foreign apartment or a foreign place without a court decision, ” they speak of foreign premises, do not speak of private premises, “and, exceptionally, without the presence of witnesses, carry out an investigation, if necessary, in order to be able to receive the perpetrator directly, ” listen to me, “receive the perpetrator of the crime or to protect people and property.” [[…]] [[…]] [[…]] [[…]] I'm sorry, we're talking about a crime. However, the violation of quarantine is not a crime in this country, I hope not yet, but it is a violation and therefore criminal proceedings are being conducted. And this is a direct violation of the Constitution. And that's why I feel sorry for the Legal and Legislative Service when it warns you and alerts you to 51 pages of what kind of goat you do. And then I listen to one of the ministers who says the following sentence: "Yes, you know, because the legislation has to be looked at, the legal opinion, because you know, there are more legal opinions." How it went through the government's work that you on the board with no idea how many amendments you're redecorating your own law today, talking only about the fact that the Government's Law Service didn't do its job or can't do it because you broke their hands. And that's why I'm saying that this government can't be trusted. And in this National Assembly it is impossible and unacceptable to violate fundamental human rights. We are in favour of protecting ourselves against the virus, we are in favour of taking action. But let me explain, let me explain just one thing, we have money for vouchers, but we don't have money for hospitals. Let me explain this logic, I don't understand it if you do, okay, but I don't. And that we have a key problem constant here. I understand when Janez Janša speaks, we have priorities, priorities. But I'm sorry, priority is first of all a man in this country, not a political ideology. And that you have a constant problem hiding the quasi-salvation state with ideological stories. What was the main topic yesterday? That there's a meeting on the Hill and that we have Hungary back in the country. That was the main topic. And quietly from behind, the government shuts down 8 agencies. I'm asking you nicely, and who else believes you in this country? Are you really so naive that people think and applaud you? Try another flight of the plane, try one more flight, if you have the courage. I'm sorry that today only state secretaries are sitting here except for one minister, except one. You know why? They don't have the balls to sit here.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, I am glad that you are wearing a mask today, because if you had not worn one week ago in Parliament, you would be yelling and spitting around like this, and if you had an umbrella, everyone would be quarantined today. By the way, yesterday the doctors were mules, today they're a screwdriver. I'm going to say again, we need doctors, we need a lot of doctors right now, so it's important that they're in the highest possible number, either private or concessionary, whatever you call them, or public health homes. That's what we need. And if you're talking about individual cases, the doctor is talking about the liability holder. I, too, received a letter from a man who would like to work here, saying that in Germany, for the bearer of responsibility, it is much milder than that. And if I go into public money again, you'll never and never convince me that public money is some imaginary thing that goes into the hands of bureaucratic structures. This money has been earned by hard-working people, so they also have the right to decide on it and that is why we have elections and therefore we have a government. And right now, I'm going to stand up for it, and I'm always going to argue that it's the source of money, that people decide what happens to their money. And what happened to 70 million studies on these homes for the elderly, and the fact that the ventricles were paid off with public money, thank you very much for that. We don't need this syntagma. We need exactly what we need now - doctors, a large number of doctors, nurses. We also want money to be spent effectively, transparently and legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. Twelve candidates have been reported. The first one gets the word "magic." Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Very well greeted representatives of the Government and also colleagues, fellow Members and Members! First of all, I would like to say that the extension of the infection is not because of the government, but because of those who misbehave to respect the measures issued by the government. The government always makes a recommendation for action according to what the profession requires of it and not what they themselves invent. Then we have some opposition Members who are protecting against these measures being disregarded, and the consequences are felt today by all, both citizens, citizens and the whole economy, education, health, culture. We'll also bear the consequences. I would also like to point out that everything depends also on the local environment we come from. Here, while some at national level are representatives of the people, who should, in the first place, respect the measures, protect down and then, at local level, we have mayors and those who calm and encourage citizens to respect the measures, and that is why the measures are then reflected in such a way that some zones are more threatened and others less. This is due to what appears to be from the local level. I would like to point out that all the measures already listed today contribute to the development of the economy. Why? Because the economy has driven everything and if we do not help with economic measures, in fact, it will also have consequences on the whole of the social sphere. The economy – I have experience of being approached by economists and they said, thank you to the government, thank you to the government of Janez Janša and to all ministers who have approached us to listen to us, seen our problems and saw how certain sectors are more at risk than others. Waiting for work is one of the most helpful measures to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic. I would then like to point out that in the area of social protection, too, what is proposed in the CAP5 is that those who will be redistributed to the grey and red zones will be redistributed to other health institutions in order to be able to receive the supplement, while at the same time they will not be able to receive the higher price in the institutions of the elderly. This I think is very welcome for everyone, so for those who have relatives in their homes, because this will also relieve their budget. At the same time, I would also like to say as a parent that I very much welcome the increase in the remuneration for quarantine for those parents who have to keep their children at home up to the 5th grade, to 80%. Then I would also like to say that, given the constant emphasis that health care is burdened, how much the measure will also help not to have to obtain a doctor’s certificate within three days, it will not be necessary to visit a doctor, but it will be possible to stay at home. This is going to put a lot of pressure on all health homes. I would also like to say that, in the field of concessions, it is not the same as it was presented. But the area of concessions relieves the health system. The point for us citizens is that we get to the service. Either the doctor has a concession or he's in the public system, I don't think we feel it. At least I have experience with it, that I didn't feel the difference. Then I would also like to ask the opposition if it believes that the government of John Janša will solve all the problems they have not in all past years. From building new health institutions in half a year to building all the capacities that are lacking in the elderly to save education. You expect all of this from the government of Janez Janša in six months. No, unfortunately, the epidemic that has arisen cannot, but it has done much for our citizens and citizens. At the same time, it will certainly save what is written and what it has written and signed in a coalition contract. Certain points are already being fulfilled, despite the epidemic that has arisen. Despite all the problems that have arisen, he must also resolve what has not previously been solved by the government, whose representatives are now so advertised. But I would also like to say about confidence in the government. It's trust in the government because people stop me on the road. I will tell you the experience of this week when one of the citizens spoke to me and said to me: “You know, Elena, this time in the epidemic that we have in the country and which rules the whole world, I really feel safe for the first time. Safe because he runs the government of Janez Janša. That is why and because the measures are taken for the citizens and for all of us to protect us." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, prepare Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! We have heard a lot of things today, we have an extremely demanding fifth crown package of legislation ahead of us. With each package, I would expect it to be less difficult for us to be heard as the opposition, but we see that this has not been the case in all this time, as these laws have been drawn up. We are living at this moment in extremely uncertain times, and we must be aware of that. Even today, what happened in the National Assembly at the beginning of the meeting does not seem appropriate to me, and there are real problems elsewhere and that is unacceptable. In fact, taking the word away, not allowing procedural proposals, that is essentially unacceptable and I believe that we will talk about this much more. On the part of my colleague, there were some indications that the opposition was protecting people from respecting the measures. This must be strongly opposed. Every time I was anywhere, we advocated that people respect the measures of the profession. For we began to wear masks exceedingly quickly, and we all got used to them, and we infected our hands, and in fact we had comments, suggestions for improvements, and yes, something was heard. We hear that today, and we see it today in the PKP proposals, we've heard it, but in the end, I'll say it's almost a little late, but better late than never. And by no means do I allow anyone to challenge me that I have protected anyone from following the recommendations made by the profession, and I do not allow it, and I strongly oppose it. Today, there has also been some talk that the opposition expects that within six months this coalition will solve all the problems of this world. We do not expect you to solve all the problems, nor would you be called upon to do so if you did not write it in your documents in your coalition contract to build homes for the elderly to invest in public health. We're just asking you if you will and when you will and if you will, nothing else. So here the readings are correct or inappropriate. And if I touch this antikoronic package. In fact, the main part concerns health and social protection, which we have also pointed out in past PKP documents. And yes, we have indeed been heard in extending the waiting for work by the end of the year, and that is indeed commendable, so that even the opposition can praise a matter, be sure that we know that. But when we look at this PKP 5 document and also focus on the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, I must say that I have been extremely disappointed. The opinion was written on 51 pages, at the working body meeting I expected improvements to this document in accordance with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. We were getting at the table of amendments that were even further away from the opinion, and the Legal and Legal Service came to almost everyone's attention and said that this was not right again. And this is really unacceptable, the law is quite imprecise, inconsistent, and this is also what the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is about. Above all, we have in the intervention law matters which are of an intervention nature, this is certainly to be supported, but we have things that do not belong to this intervention law which are, I will say, almost systemic or should go through a broader public debate. Yesterday we received e-mail comments from the National Institute for Public Health, as they are charged with the imposition of quarantine decisions. We have received comments from the congregation communities that remind us of the conduct or dictions that the congregation officials have been given. There are problems here, in fact they don't have the authority to do that at all, and there are no tasks in their workaround. Also, the police, the police union, are calling on us not to follow this proposal. And I just don't see why they don't hear about certain things. I am pleased, however, that with the amendment, you have indeed heard the new independent entrepreneurs who have decided on this path between 13 March and 1 September, that you and the amendment have really included them in this story and that they too will receive help. Nice to meet you. I've managed so much to look at these amendments, and in this part, I agree. And if I may touch the areas of health. In the law you provide a new deadline for the harmonisation of authorisations with the responsible health care provider, which we adopted in 2017 with a view to finally having a designated who is responsible for the health sector. At that time, we also gave a transitional period because we realized that this would not be possible within a year. Here we agreed that a three-year transitional period was somehow appropriate. Yes, this happened, the transitional period this year is running out, and time has also shown that there is a need to make a change here. Your initial proposal to extend for 8 years is absolutely unacceptable. Otherwise, with the amendment you're improving it, you're only prolonging it for two years, which, I'll say, is a little closer, but the opposition thinks it's a two-year period too long. Because someone who wants to get this certificate from the responsible health care provider, but after four years, I could really get it if he doesn't have this interest, even after the next few years, and it's only one year, according to our opinion. Another story is the systemic nature that should be regulated by special law, and this is the reduction of waiting species, which has already been a lot of talk. I have to say, it really saddens me that somehow we don't come together, because it's extremely important that the waiting times in the field of health are reduced. Now, if we're going to cut them down and cut them down with 156 private doctors, I'm just a little bit afraid that that's not gonna happen. In the public health system, more than 6 000 doctors are working, but in the afternoon they are providing a service in a private office, and it should be stressed that most of this problem, which was in the covid crisis, has been performed by the public health system. So in this place, it saddens me that somehow we are not trying to get into a public health system where programs, regular programs, are falling out, to pull all this personnel that is in the private sector. Although we have already heard today that the private wanted to provide dental services, but he had a lot of problems at the time of the first coronation, and that was not the case, but I think that the legal basis in the Law on Infectious Diseases is, the minister could issue a decision and these doctors would have been re-analysed into the public health system, providing services that somehow also fall away. Because we can't afford it, otherwise I sincerely hope that we will somehow come through this crisis that is. However, if the crisis lasts another year or two, I do not want to know the consequences for our health system. Because with the fall of extremely important operations, although it has been agreed that things will be done quickly, urgently, all will be done, but I am afraid that sometimes the doctor does not know how to identify the patient, whether he would decide to make a quick, urgent decision, and then he will write regularly, but it is possible that once the regular turn comes, it is almost too late. Here's the problem. The second problem is that we have the latest lists where the longest waiting periods of the month of March are. I therefore wonder at this point how the Minister will issue a decision on which programmes this national call for the reduction of waiting periods will be issued. I wonder, for if, after all, we can only look at where, where, where the longest and I don't know, the services will be provided, just a call for those services that will be more profitable, or then the health system will only perform those that are less profitable, and possibly, in all likelihood, the public health system will also carry out the complications. The complications are also a problem. So we have a lot of problems here and an absolute national statement to improve accessibility to health services should follow something else. First, incorporate all personnel into the public health system, find solutions to this. We have a staff burnout in hospitals where teams are formed to cope with the covid crisis. If we don't do something in this place, we're in serious danger of pure chaos in the field of health. And there will be more to death than we can ever imagine. But the dimensions of the health crisis, the one that has now hit us, will only be visible in a few years. If we remember what was written, 30 percent of the less detectable cancer patients were in this period of coronary disease, and I believe that because of this, because of the coronary crisis, we are no more healthy, absolutely not. But people don't hope for a doctor. They're just waiting for those really last minute when they decide to look for health services. So it would be absolutely necessary first to strengthen and provide money in the public health system, to ensure that programmes are not cancelled, that operations continue and to develop this public health system, which, like all of them, I think we are well aware. Privates are aware of that, too. In general, the public health system works during the co-existence of the crisis and treats these patients. This is something that needs to be stressed. In this place, thanks go not only to doctors, especially to this health care staff, who are under-exposed, such as nurses, nurses, even cleaners, even without cleaners, this health care system would not be the same as it is, and we also have cooks who prepare under all the measures they have, adequate nutrition for patients who are being treated in this system. Although I asked the minister how many more visits there were or how many urgent transports there were, how many more emergencies there were at that time. Because those patients who decide to go to the E.R. get all the proper care, as necessary, even in time, and this is extremely important. Thank you very much for that, too. I must say that funds will be made available to reduce waiting lines for private people. It can happen that's gonna cause trouble. As I mentioned, it can happen that private people will carry out more cost-effective transactions and the rest will remain for the public health system. The Pergamum Confederation even warns that it is an unfair competition that should not be allowed and allowed. They also estimate that this would transfer almost €42 million to private health care providers, which could be used to strengthen the public health network. Therefore, in the opposition, we also propose an amendment that, in the end, the whole public health system should be used first, only then private concessionaires and only in the third phase, if all of these measures were not working or were not sufficiently reported, private individuals could also enter the system. The problem with individuals is that there are only 156. Everyone has – well, I'll say that they won't take me for my word – even with other doctors working in the public health system, concluded on land contracts. I really don't think it's right for the public health system to suffer and for the private to work. And for the record, I believe that the public health system without privates will not hold up, and that is true. But the public health system must be the main cell and the private health system should complement the public, because that is the only way we will do what is necessary, and in this way we will reduce waiting periods, which I do not know what they are yet. And I expect to get an answer from the minister, where the longest waiting periods are, because at that time, a lot has changed. With regard to the short-term three-day absence of a worker, the Legislative and Legal Service points out the derogation from the Labour Relations Act, including with regard to the control of who will supervise it. Here's the problem. While this is about decommissioning the primary health system, which is good, but, thank God, I will say, this measure, which is proposed by the end of the year, and can only be used once a year by an individual to avoid abuse. Here's my thought, too. It would only touch on microbiological investigations, since the law creates a monopoly, there are only two institutions that could carry out these microbiological investigations. That doesn't seem appropriate to us, because the analysis has to be quick, there's no time to wait, like it's already been told, two, three days you've been waiting and you don't know what's going on with you, you don't know where you're going. And I don't think centralization is appropriate here, and it's almost unacceptable. Many amendments have been tabled by the opposition, which I will speak about later. But I would like to touch only tourist vouchers, which we have talked about extremely much. We have already proposed in the fourth anti-korona package that these vouchers be cashable for a longer period of time. Otherwise, yesterday, the Prime Minister mentioned that they would be extended, but I don't know how long. The opposition proposes an extension of at least 31. 5. 2021, because we know that it is pointless or inappropriate at this point to promote the use of these vouchers. At that time, culture was forgotten. The establishment of the cultural voucher we are proposing would save at least part of the cultural activity that has died at this time of covida. This provisional basic income, which is being introduced, has also been forgotten about the holiday workers. And I hope you will support us in not having this matter back on the wallpaper in PKP6, PKP7. Also with regard to students, students and students, who, on Monday – at least students and students – go to work remotely, as well as elementary school students from the sixth grade on, if they come into the educational process, because I do not think that this will be a long time, it is necessary to provide adequate protective equipment, because social pressures between schooling children and their families require our help. I hope we'll hear from this work too. I'm gonna say a dot at this place, and I'm gonna check in on you later so I don't spend all my time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Aljaž Kovačič has the word to prepare Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, chairman. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We already have a fifth anti-korona package ahead of us. It's kind of funny or sad to hear coalition Members say how good this bill is. But they have bad luck that people still remember what they used to say. One of my predecessors said who is now responsible for more than 700 infected people today. Apparently, five, six months ago, the government of Marjan Šarca was guilty of 30 infections a day, and today, when we have 700 infections, the measures are obvious, but those 10 people who obviously do not follow the measures are guilty, and then they obviously infected half of Slovenia. Isn't it? Apparently, the cyclists have overstepped Slovenia so much that we have more than 700 infections a day. I mean, I understand that you have to defend yourself, but maybe sometimes it's better to be quiet and confirm the proposal if you don't agree with him than to talk nonsense. We had a work committee where we went through this. Now everyone's talking, coalition MPs and government, about how good this marriage is. If this was so good and social dialogue was so good, I wonder why everyone was invited when they were there, I think there were 5 or 6 groups, warned that social dialogue was not or was not in the right way. Who's lying here now? Does that mean everyone who's been involved in the preparation or the Ministry? At the same time, the representatives of this government, these parliamentary groups, have generally shown the previous government that there is no social dialogue. The second thing is, the law is supreme, but the law-law service spoke for 30 minutes and wrote on 51 pages what was wrong and where all the possibility of unconstitutionality is. Now you are preparing the fifth package and in each package the Legal and Legislative Service has more comments and there are more controversial articles. Not to mention that we were actually getting new and new amendments to the coalition at the table for the entire session that was taking place. And today we are getting new and new amendments for this regular session. So much for the seriousness of the treatment itself, while rejecting all the opposition's proposals, as in all previous packages, although some are exactly the same. After you realize that the opposition has made a good suggestion, however, you reject its proposal that something will not happen to the opposition, then you write the same thing down. Even the NIJS has warned you that they do not agree with some of the proposals in this law, says the institution with which you are supposed to participate, where you have appointed the director, while replacing the two previous proposals, is noted to point out that they do not agree with the writing of the quarantine decisions. You are also saying how the economy supports all these proposals, I don't know, obviously only the opposition are sending amendments, for example today the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, which clearly disagrees with the way you are solving these problems in Slovenia. And then, the greatest populism that happens when coalition MPs start saying that people stop them on the streets and say what they think about this government. Now, if I start to talk about what people are saying to me about this government and how they're also writing to me in the messages, I'll probably be removed from the National Assembly because my vocabulary will be completely inappropriate, and of course I won't read it out loud, but I can show you once what they think about your president and your ministers you've chosen. That in all the PKPs you have actually rejected all the opposition's amendments, it is already known. To go back to some intervention law and to re-miss sports and culture, everyone is already quite clear as you have in all of the previous ones. Now you will talk about giving record budgets, but then I wonder why culturers are reporting, what state they are in, why sports societies are reporting, what state they are in, and what all of this means for Slovenian sport. The three important things you are doing in this CAP are, as already mentioned, the privatisation of public health, of public health, which in these difficult times offers assistance to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Then, as in all the contested articles so far, because there are really no controversial articles, it is said that the first ridiculous case, or the sad, oral issue of quarantine decisions, is the case. Well, we've already talked about this on the board, and I don't know what the students are going to call each other a little bit, but yeah, listen, buddy, you have a quarantine decision, you're in quarantine for 14 days. Or, I don't know, one coalition party is going to call the opposition MPs and tell them, yes, we're people from the NICU, Peter from the NICU, 14 days you're going to quarantine, and then the opposition won't want to vote. So there's no complete control, just a little bit at home, because you actually don't know how to solve the problem properly. Then we have here a completely controversial article, a restriction and a ban on the gathering of people in private places and places where we have now even received the amendments of the SDS Group and New Slovenia. Now I don't know if you realize that the stop itself is protecting private space. No one has the right to enter my apartment, no immediate family members, let alone someone else. So only me and my partner who own this apartment can enter my apartment. No one else unless the court issues the order. I think that's clear to everyone. And you'd just do a little homework, yeah, and then there'd be an inspection and she'd walk around the room a little bit, and, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. I don't know where we live. The fact that it's about extending powers to all those who have five minutes to control it, and I'm not talking about it. And then the third thing that will save Slovenian culture is this culture, which has been neglected for 30 years in Slovenia. The repeal of the Single Price Act was able to be prepared by the Ministry and in fact the Slovenian culture will be resolved. Although we had a committee on this subject and actually went through all the analyses, past all the public presentations, it is said that no one was able to say anything and nothing about it, only the ministry is supreme, obviously in one day, prepared an analysis and decided to destroy it. Speaking of which, in fact, the ministry covering education, higher education and sports has not actually prepared anything. We also had a meeting on this subject, including on the behavior of the Minister himself. Now one of the coalition MPs is saying how satisfied teachers are with adult education, how satisfied students who have been thrown out of college homes are with everything. I don't know. I obviously have a different view of both teachers and students. Interestingly, at the last regular meeting, I also asked the Minister how they would prepare schools when they were closed, how they would communicate with schools. There was no minister at that session. Perhaps it would be better if, because I think it was that day that she was at that famous dinner without a mask, the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia might have an answer as to how schools would close and at the same time they would not have been able to afford the blemish. So, I wonder in what way and in which PKP you will help sport. Slovenian teams are the only ones who lose European competitions because we are the only European countries that have their own rules, although, let's say, one of Slovenia's handball teams spends more than 100,000 euros on testing, but this is still not enough to play by Slovenia's rules. Now we are actually repeating one and the same about culture on all committees, and in fact we are already on the same page on one hand, but we do not understand why you are so neglectful of sport and culture. A colleague sitting in coalition ranks told us or the opposition what we were saying. Now I don't know if she understands that the opposition controls the coalition and not the other way around. She obviously lives in the world when the coalition will tell the opposition what to do, even though we are actually proposing in all the CAPs, both in the budget balance and in the budget of the amendment, but none is accepted. So I don't know what more we can do than propose amendments, and we hope that you will receive instructions that you can let someone through. We also propose and have already proposed on the committee, although everything has been rejected, deleting this meaningless article of the Single Price Act, then the voucher which was rejected again, even though you have talked about how these tourist vouchers save the Slovenian economy and tourism. I don't know why we wouldn't give culture 50 euros to every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia to save the culture. Then, of course, we don't think it makes sense for us to move public servants without their approval, so it's going to be directors now. You've been hired for a job, and you're changing your job every day. Then the prohibition of forgiveness after the payment of the remuneration has ceased. Thus, if a State aids an economic company, at least the company should return in a way that does not forgive the worker as soon as its aid ceases, it is said to be for at least a few months. You've forgotten about those nicknames again, if that's what I can call them, working under an copyright contract or a business contract, it's a monthly basic income they don't deserve, because they're obviously not properly employed. It also makes no sense to us that students and those who study and do some work in hospitals would not be rewarded in the same way as other employees. So if we reward the other employees because they work with covid patients, it makes sense for us to reward students and students who work through student travel or as part of the practice. Also, if the state writes something down, as you have written down that masks are compulsory in schools, then the state should provide funds. Because we know that many people and children in Slovenia actually live in very difficult social conditions and it is most likely very difficult for families to provide these masks. And if the state has done so, it has prescribed it, then it is only right to provide funds. Yeah, I'm not pretending to change anything. You can talk about saving lives from day to day, but 700 infections a day do not exactly indicate that your actions are successful. As regards finance, however, we will assess what you have done with these billions of minuses you have produced in the years to come. And the poor one who will take the government after you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic, prepare Andre Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The fact is that the situation is not pink, that it is serious, that health care is what we all have high hopes for. Maybe some of us understand him differently than some, but for us, I think, for the most part, it's some kind of rescue plant when it's in some personal distress with a disease or something. Therefore, I must say that doctors point to the words spoken in the National Assembly to ask where the limits are permissible, to ask and to report that they will respond to the defamation of medical expertise by their work for patients, which I think is the most possible. That is why I can also say that the government also responds with the PKP5, with this package, to all those who have shown themselves in all this time that they still need additional assistance. Indeed, this package is extensive, it has many new views, new solutions, which follow what has been said many times today - first of all is man, man as a priority, and, of course, everything that follows from this across different groups. I'll start at the beginning. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Activity Act, where the transitional period for obtaining a licence for nurses who have graduated is extended from three to four years for medium-term nurses and medical technicians. We all know what the problems were, what meetings we had in this work, and what medical or medical personnel need. Of course, I can't pass the Illuminating Diseases Act either, especially that free vaccination against influenza will be available to all those who choose to do so. We are expected to ensure that the vaccine is sufficient, and this is a step towards a common goal, and the aim is to improve the health status of citizens and citizens as much as possible. The Health and Health Insurance Act states that a worker may be absent from work for three consecutive days during the calendar year due to illness without a personal physician’s certificate. Reimbursement for absence from the work of the CFSP shall be refunded to the employer, the measure shall apply until 31. 12. 2020. This is a measure that aims to keep people as low as possible from going to a hospital or hospital for two days. This will do much good both for the patient or the patient so that they do not need to go to a healthcare home and for health care professionals in health homes. I think that other measures in the field of health are certainly important. Funding is also provided to strengthen staff capacities, equipment and information support for the epidemiological service at the NICU, including the establishment of mobile sampling units, to ensure monitoring of the consequences of covid-19 in the health system, to support older and vulnerable groups, to implement measures to reduce the negative impact on mental health and to inform and raise awareness of covid-19. Mental health is also taken care of in this package. But I have to tell you what one mobile unit looks like to take samples. I come alone from the Cerknica. Our healthcare home is small, rural, and like all of us, we have problems with family doctors. It's agreed that we have samples taken in Postojna. The team consists of a midwife, a graduate nurse, a doctor and an administrator. And Cerknica Health Home, where primary doctors are lacking, says personal doctors, contributes to two mobile units, two nurses, two diplomats and two reporters, i.e. administrative staff. And it seems to me that this is an incentive for health care homes at some level to negotiate and seek optimal solutions on their own, even because in the primary health care home, a doctor can then do his job and is available to patients. I also find it very important to pay for the quarantine or protection of children. Here I must say that our Minister, Janez Cigler the King, whom I must commend for the whole package here and his team, has also touched the areas of remuneration for the quarantine or protection of children. We know that children, including the fifth grade, fall into this group where parental quarantine is responsible for the right to compensation of 80%. This has been repeatedly exposed, so I welcome this decision by the Government to move forward with this step. What I think is extremely positive is that this package has not forgotten about the disabled, because this segment, too, may be faced with major problems at some point in time, but they may be extended to this end by higher compensations, which is also a good gesture, a proper gesture from this point of view. And, of course, I very much welcome this matter. As far as protective measures are concerned, I believe that today it has been repeatedly said that, mainly for everyone, including for older people's homes, payment has been taken care of, which is also a hope or burden for individual homes for older people or even health homes, public institutions which sometimes say that this is an additional cost, but also in this proposal of the fifth package, the anti-korona package of measures in this matter is going in the right direction. I wish we had the same attitude toward disease in this National Assembly. To understand the efforts of both experts, doctors, nurses, workers in nursing homes, to sometimes breathe on gills, to burn, and to sometimes lose all meaning when they may not be recognized as those who do very much for our common good. I wish that everyone in this situation who is still as healthy as possible would understand that some social distance, wearing masks and, of course, disinfecting our hands helps to make us all more safe and healthy. And I wish that this National Assembly would be the best example of all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Andre Zabret has the word. Let's get Gobbler ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greeting to the government's representatives! Colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about the proposal for a law on temporary measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of covid-19. In particular, I would stress words such as temporary relief and the removal of the effects of covid-19. What does that mean? Above all, I suppose that more or less everyone understands what this means, but obviously not the current coalition. Indeed, the law should contain temporary measures that will help people and the economy, not articles that have absolutely nothing to do with coweed. In a law that is supposed to be largely, say, social content, for the fifth time, press repressive, illegal and unconstitutional articles and articles that are of a lasting nature. Actually, we know why. Because all these laws are not subject to the legislative referendum because you rely on emergency situations and create conditions for you to do what you want. The articles say that the Government can extend the measures by means of conclusions, and I wonder if you need the National Assembly at all. The Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed to this – the division of powers. I don't know how all the other coalition parties can accept that. The law has 132 articles, but of these there are only some that are of an intervention character, and all others do not belong to this law. The few eligible ones to be highlighted are, in particular, the extension of the subsidised reduction measure, the reintroduction of the basic income for self-employed, members of society, farmers and cultural workers, free vaccination against influenza, co-financing of educational protective equipment, but we still do not know if this protective equipment will also be provided to students. We have also proposed this in the amendments to the opposition parties, but it was rejected on the parental committee for the work of the amendment. Perhaps the purpose was basically good, but unfortunately the marriage was bad. We have therefore proposed several amendments to the Labour Committee with opposition parties, and I think they were close to 30. Unfortunately, not one has been accepted, all of you have run over to say, as a bulldozer, as have all at least 300 amendments since the first PKP. I'll just give it to the tourist sheep. The government calls for people to make the most of it as soon as possible, we have only two months of good time left, while the profession warns, stay at home, do not hang out, relax and travel can wait. Today we are again giving you a proposal to extend the validity of the tourist voucher until the end of May 2021. And that's the question, if it's enough, given the current situation we have. And why would it make sense to support it here? Especially because it is responsible and that we will give people essentially the opportunity to use the vouchers, but at the same time they will not endanger themselves and others. This amendment has already been proposed by the Labour Committee, where it has been rejected. We also tabled this amendment yesterday, but today the coalition will certainly reject this amendment and have tabled its own to extend the validity of the voucher by one year by a decision of the Government. This is a very nice textbook case where all that is opposition is to be rejected. So much for cooperation and constructiveness. There are a number of harmful things and controversial articles in marriage. The door to privatisation of public health is opened with a national call for tender, where private people will collect cream and public institutions will do what is not worth paying private people. In LMŠ, we, together with the other opposition parties, proposed a cascade system where public institutions would first appear and then concessionaires, and then private parties, of course under certain conditions. Unfortunately, however, this amendment was also rejected. The next controversial article is also the extension of powers to the police and to the municipal registrar. It is still not defined or today we have seen the amendment of the coalition, the controversial article 13, where it is actually even more explicitly written that the police will also be able to control private spaces. And despite the fact that we can read the STA news where Minister Hojs said at the press conference that it does not mean that the police will break into apartments, but that the police will be able to come to private gatherings when they are called by health inspectors, and most of them will come after a citizen's application. So they can come, they'll have to report you to a citizen. I have to say that nothing comforts me, that it will not be possible, even if I think that you may have a neighbor with whom you are drawn, which is quite common folklore in Slovenia. And some other articles that are also controversial. Culture is completely overlooked that we are not talking about the deletion of the Single Price Act, the oral imposition of quarantines and also a few controversial articles in the previous PKPs, such as Article 103 and the environmental articles. And there's something else on the other pay line. If we look at yesterday's infected numbers, there were 707, we've heard that a lot today. The situation we're in is extremely serious. Prime Minister Janez Janša said in his presentation of the second wave plan, I quote the news from the government website of 6. 10.: "We are in the middle of the second wave of the Coronavirus and the measures we take are aimed at bridging this wave and preventing any serious consequences in the event of the third wave during the cold period," said the Prime Minister of the Government in the introduction, stressing that we have learned a lot in Europe and Slovenia from the spring epidemic. Covid-19 is no longer unknown as spring. [[…]] That's what the Prime Minister said. But apparently she's still a stranger to you. At a time when the Government could prepare for effective measures from May to September, it is four months, when all the profession warned that the second wave would come, the government was engaged in what? Anything earlier than a strategic plan. She used to trade people by state institutions like a liquid tape, legally, illegally, it doesn't matter. Change of Director at Surs, Furs, we already have a third director or director at the NPU, media law. For me to be a little cynical, the main government speaker during this time had to clean up the swimming pool in Krk. Two things that concern me the most are what happens to the economy and what happens to our health in the coming months or years. It's the easiest thing to close. And why is that likely to be necessary? Because of you, your esteemed Government, or your leader, the Prime Minister of the Government, who at that time preferred to deal with everything else. You preferred to recruit in the police, the media, save Croatian tourism, but you did not prepare for the second wave and create a solution or any analysis on the basis of which you could assess what to close. Now you blame people for being guilty, which is extremely rude. People are trying so hard, and because of all this, they're in severe distress, they're becoming apathetic, and they're scared because of the virus itself, and because of the fear of this government. Do you even have statistics on where the main hotspots and causes are? We're closing everything on average without analysis. If the government were to properly prepare and respond, that would not be necessary. This is where you put it all the way down. And maybe now on the infected numbers, it's the only possible scenario. But do you realize what this means for the entire economy? The consequences of your actions will be the victims, I hope they will not be too great, but the economy will certainly be collateral damage. And what's gonna happen? In the first wave, there was tremendous solidarity among people, employers did not forgive, they benefited from employee subsidies, they put them on hold, they did everything they could to avoid forgiveness. Under the condition that a hairdresser can only have one customer, the owner or the owner himself will be able to do so. It will benefit from state subsidies for itself and will put other employees in the institution because it cannot provide them with work. Businesses can no longer afford this, despite the subsidisation of wages. The cost of the company is not just the wages, it is the rent, running costs and entrepreneurs that have already exhausted their savings, forgiveness and bankruptcy will begin. The numbers are inexcusable. In 2020 there will be 4.6 billion holes and in 2021 2.7 in 2022 1.6. In three years, we will be further indebted to 16 billion not to talk about the expected unemployment, corporate bankruptcy and so on. All of this is also due to the inefficiency of the SDS-led government's actions. But what's the saddest story in all of this is that basic health care is completely out of function. This is where the government laid down the entire line. Have you thought about what to do to prevent collateral damage that is caused by covid-19 disease in the care of others, including threatening conditions and diseases such as cancer and many other diseases. The data from the Slovenian Cancer Register at the Oncology Institute, which already shows a decline in oncological treatments in the country, are a source of concern. Already in March and even more in April, the number of new cancer patients was reduced to 30%. You knew there'd be a second wave, that's what the profession kept alerting. And what did you do between May and September? They're fighting a little. The second wave surprised you, but not the expert, but you, the coalition. And at that time, I really don't want her to get sick alone or any of my neighbors behind anything but a co-driver. I really don't want to. And this PKP today is dripping into the sea against everything this government is doing. The main PKPs will only have to come because the crisis is about to begin. Solidarity will no longer be so strong and people will start to see their survival. And after all this, I ask everyone who's in here to ask themselves where we're going and where we're going to land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The word has Željko Cigler, prepare the mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Madam Minister, other representatives and representatives of the Government! First of all, I would like to start with the amendments we have proposed in Levica, first of all at Article 41 of the eighth paragraph of the PKP Act, of course, which we are currently considering. In fact, in Levica we propose to delete paragraph 41 because it regulates accommodation capacity for the implementation of isolation measures, i.e. isolation, and quarantines at home, while discriminating towards foreigners and others who do not have permanent or temporary residence in the Republic of Slovenia. When I say others, these are also homeless people who do not have a temporary or permanent residence in Slovenia, they are foreign workers who do not have one, and they generate incomes and profits for us, they are asylum seekers, they are refugees. In fact, if foreigners do not have a regulated permanent or temporary residence, this must not in any way mean that they cannot potentially pose a risk of transmission of communicable diseases to vulnerable groups of the population, from older to other vulnerable groups. And since it is a matter of public health for all of us, it is only right that the measure is valid for all of us and that additional accommodation capacity is available for all people in Slovenia. We therefore propose that this eighth paragraph of Article 41 be deleted. We also propose that the eighth paragraph of Article 42 be deleted as well. In fact, it regulates transport to the accommodation I mentioned earlier, as referred to in Article 41. Foreigners and all the social categories referred to in Article 41 are also not entitled to sanitary transport. And this is one discrimination which is by no means justified and acceptable to Slovenia, which has signed, as far as the categories I have previously referred to are concerned, many, including international conventions, or has regulated this domestic legislation, which is non-discriminatory. And there is no legal basis for discrimination, but this law must not be made. It is also necessary to add a comment by the Legislative and Legal Service of our National Assembly, which warned that the proposed legislative decree, paragraphs 41 and 42, where the costs of transport and accommodation are to be borne by foreigners, are virtually impossible, incomprehensible and impossible to carry out. And for reasons of prevention and unequal treatment and protection of public health, they also propose deleting this Article 42 if they can, as I have read the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. I would also like to say that we are proposing in Levica, on the initiative of the Union of Education and Education, Science and Culture of Slovenia, to amend Article 98, which provides direct funding for measures in the field of education, education, science and the functioning of the temporary coordinating body at the Ministry of Education for these purposes. Education, for example, has a very high additional cost for co-vid, without which it cannot manage the educational process. I am talking about education in both kindergartens, primary schools, secondary and tertiary programmes. From the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and from the EU, the funds we will receive, which the government says are very large, must be provided to educational organisations and kindergartens with funding for protective equipment, disinfection of premises, clean spaces for both operators and users of the services of these institutions. Secondly, it is necessary to provide funding for additional staff, technical, cleaning and also for those who carry out training and protection processes in kindergartens, primary and secondary schools and at tertiary level. In fact, it's huge, we've talked about primary schools here especially many times and also for kindergartens, children with special needs, children who need additional learning aid. I have also pointed out to the Education Committee that highly tired workers who carry out these activities, especially since, in addition to the processes carried out by them, education and education, there is also a need to take care of the measures taken to prevent covids, for example, in the field of the level in question in primary school, there is a class infection and a complex teaching body which teaches different subjects in this class must be quarantined. In fact, we need an educational system, especially primary school and kindergarten, with additional human resources. It is therefore necessary to provide additional resources from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and from European funds. Above all, it is important for the Ministry of Education to form a coordinating body for the purpose of monitoring evaluation and proposing measures and taking initiatives for measures on pest control, prevention and control of cod spread. Representatives of the Ministry, NIJZ, academic professions, representatives of representative unions, parents and students should be included in this coordinating body. In view of the fact that we would also work together to evaluate the evolution of events or processes that are now emerging in educational and educational institutions during this crisis, and to take on a positive attitude and the necessary changes. If this cooperation between the government and the profession, because it is a matter of connecting with the profession and also with the workers in these institutions, would certainly not have been better relations, but those who, due to objective evaluations, for example, point out shortcomings in distance education or who advocate the role and importance of public education in Slovenia, with their candidates, as did Director Ivan Žagar at the Pedagogical Institute, receive a negative assessment of the Ministry of Education. In short, even one democracy, one open cooperation, listening to one another, would prevent such undemocratic procedures from happening to us. Next thing I know, I'd like to draw attention to this. See, the media and also people warn, and in particular workers in health institutions, homes and social welfare institutions where they have an employed health when there is a shortage of staff for the treatment of covid. For the last time on the Committee on Health, I said why Mrs Bregant's Minister of Health or Minister of Health, since only she attends the National Assembly, does not activate Article 37 of the Law on Infectious Diseases. We have already changed it, the second amendment is proposed, but those articles that help the Minister decide to impose temporary measures and activate natural and legal persons in the field of health during the epidemic in order to help work in the field to address the consequences of the epidemic. Why isn't that done? Why doesn't the minister activate this article? No one's answering that. The caravan goes on, I mean, the Members here speak in vain, although it is the applicable legislation of the Republic of Slovenia. And of course these measures applied until the end of the epidemic. And I would like to say this when I mentioned health care when we're talking about an invitation to reduce waiting lines. It is necessary to obtain information, and we expect this analysis to be presented to the National Assembly by the Ministry of Health, how much less has been diagnosed and treated with chronic diseases and cancers this year compared to the same period last year. Patients are left without this help. The media is publishing alarming numbers. At the same time, I say that all citizens and citizens must contribute every month to supplementary health insurance. These funds are virtually not being used by private insurance companies because the health services I mentioned above are virtually not being implemented, so the capital is being accumulated. Therefore, it is not surprising that the Triglav and Sava Re insurance companies purchase or purchase the Bled Diagnostic Center through their company, bought the Fontana, Maribor, bought the Cardinal's Medical Center in Ljubljana or purchased the Roshna Valley Surgical Sanatorium. Where did these insurance companies get this money? No supplementary health insurance shall be used. And the invitation issued by the Government to remove waiting lines is written on the skin in such a way that practically with the public health system and the help of people who are sick in Slovenia has no connection. I'd still say that. When MEP Elena Zavadlova had previously thought in the direction of asking the current government to expand its health capacities, to build homes for the elderly, to finance schools and where the money will be obtained. I'd say that, look, we have huge budget surpluses. Slovenia is heavily indebted abroad, now in 2021 and 2022, because we have added funds in the budget. We have 780 million to buy weapons, for a million and a half will build a road from Šentrupert to Slovenj Gradc, in the area of Gaberk, which is the first minister of environment and space, the minister of the first Janšev government, Janez Podobnik, assessed as an intensively downturned area, and that is impossible to build there. Today, two ministers, Vizjak and Vrtovec from the third government of Janševa, are burying the first shovel there instead of modernising and arranging an old regional road for 300 million. Colleagues and colleagues, see, this is about money, about very large public funds that could be used both to build homes for the elderly and to upgrade infectious clinics in Ljubljana, Maribor and to update many other health facilities that we now urgently need. No problem, lady, this is change, 4 years after 30 million for a public invitation to tender to upgrade the necessary primary and kindergarten facilities. This is a trifle against what I have listed with what public resources this country or Government currently has and manages. Not to mention culture. Here's the money. And that's what my colleague Mojca Škrinjar would say when she spoke about how the opposition performed in the National Assembly. It was quite simple, at the first point, when the presentation of the opinions, the substantive opinions by the parties, was initiated, both the work and the presentation of the content views of the parties were hampered by the title of the Vice-President of our National Assembly, Mr Tank. And today we are talking about a very important co-vid five law that will have a significant impact on life, economy, culture, prosperity and also on the way out of this covid crisis in the future. And it doesn't matter what we say here as representatives of the people. And I must say that what has been marked is such a violation of the principles of democratic procedure that you discussed with the President of the National Assembly yesterday, and today it has already been forgotten, such demented leadership is this, sorry to say that, because I know that this is a memory loss, so I use this word, I do not wish to offend. But this is one of the janshisms that I call authoritarianism, intolerance and a lack of any sense of dialogue and consideration of the interlocutor and taking the floor to an interlocutor in such an important marriage as a fellow five. And this janchism among the MPs of the National Assembly has zero tolerance. And I hope this matter will be prevented in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u117	The word has magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u118	Mr President, I am not entirely sure now whether Mrs Eva Irgle can speak or speak. Make up your mind, come on. Can I do that? Thank you very much. Once again, Mr President, honourable Members, Members, Government representatives, dear citizens, dear citizens! I'm among those who don't support you. I do not trust what the political representatives of this government say. But none of this, respectable, respected, can be a reason for all of us not to listen to the profession together. None of this must be the reason to disregard all rules of physical distance, to disregard the rules of masking, disinfection and other measures recommended by experts and experts. This is not just about the ruling or opposition, the left, the right, the upper, the lower, it is essentially about our relationship with the country, but it is about our relationship with the most vulnerable. So let me also call everyone from this city as a representative of the opposition: Let's be serious. Let's be serious! Next thing I know, I feel like I'm in a movie, and I forgot my name, even though I'm a fan of science fiction who talked about reruns, reruns, reruns, reruns. Today we have [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, there was another one, it was a military form of science fiction. We've actually had a fifth repetition, which we've already repeated four times. There comes a coalition, a government with the necessary structure, with additional measures, with additional money to help people, the economy, society as a whole, because now is the time to help them. So it's a good direction. But, dear colleagues and colleagues on the right, why can't you just stick your chicken balls in this basket? Why can't you do that? Why did you actually make some terrible mistakes again? And I'm going to count maybe three, four, which, at least, means a really strong step over the limit. Why did you attack the epidemiologists again? This is one group of experts that we have so little, very rarely come to the microphone. The microphone comes through - who? The microphone comes to defenders and let them know, they have their knowledge, they come to such and other security engineers, and other profiles of doctors come from pediatricians to urologists, infectologists. You're all important. Everyone has their own knowledge. Epidemiologists are like they're in a row somewhere, and if it's really a good day, let them go once a week, but they know what it's all about. And not only have you completely pushed them away, you are now imposing administrative new burdens on them with this law. And now they're saying they can't do what they have to do. And you're giving them new administrative burdens. I would understand if we still had three times the number of current epidemiologists in Slovenia in stock. Okay, let's get new people, new assignments, and they'll make it. And I, Madam Secretary of State, do not believe you have them in stock. I really don't believe you have them in stock, but they're already reporting that they can't. Please follow the opposition's amendment at this point. We can talk about how, but not to do so, after the law has been passed and this has been set aside in a bad way. They're the ones who know best how to control the epidemic. Then the extensions for the decommissioning of the public health system. I know we don't understand each other on the left and right of this point. You're pleading for privacy, me in public. Sometimes I feel like we don't even understand what we're saying. However, consider a practical example. If we ask ourselves whether to give extra money to save those who are waiting indefinitely, we'll all say yes. Then maybe one more question, and I think we'd get closer. Can we make a cascade system? That was the question. It's been spinning for a couple of years and it can't go all the way. Let's ask the public health system first, if I simplify it a little bit, these are state hospitals, or you have any more free capacity, but the problem is money that you can't pay people Look, money you have. If they answer, look, we don't, of course, ask concessionaires who are also part of the public system, but you still have some free capacity, we have, we don't, but we're still running out. Then ask the privates, third in turn. But even if they say, we do not have enough to ask hospitals near Slovenia. People who need surgery because they have cancer and need surgery need to be helped. But please don't break up the public system. Why is that important? I'll tell you what's on this side of the seas. Imagine, you have a private structure that has a minimum number of employees. And then when he gets the extra orders - what does he do? He's pulling doctors out of the medical system that we're missing. And the hospital keeps reporting, we don't have operators, we don't have anesthesiologists, we don't have cancer experts. Then where do these people come from? But they're coming. And then not only this, then there are cases in Slovenia that then – where do they work? It's in the public network. Maybe there's something I don't understand. Maybe I don't know enough about all these networks. But why not do so if we have free operating rooms, if we still have doctors, members and members of the medical staff who are still willing to work? Yeah, give them the money, release them the halls, please let them do it nicely. And I believe there's somewhere we can agree on that. But if the system goes this way, they're there, and I appreciate them, I appreciate all the doctors, you won't hear from me the word someone else used – the lubricants, the hard college you've finished, all the respect for you, incredibly many hours, the energy you've spent to get the qualifications you have. For the record, I wouldn't want an obvious lack of appreciation for doctors and other medical personnel. However, let us fill in and give the opportunity to do what can be done in the public system, and then let us go cascadingly. And if we fill it all up, concessionaires and privates in Slovenia, look, I am the first to raise my hand even for the 100 millionth law to send our people abroad for surgery, because they have to be operated on by those who need to be. Just don't ruin our public health system. Why? I'll tell you one more case. Imagine, honourable Members and Members, that you are carriers of private practice. Clearly, you'll be happy to call, take things that are probably profitable and not the most difficult. But what's gonna happen? It's still a science of science, it's biology. There will be so many and so many complications in 100 cases. Where will you send them? In the lap of a public system that is essentially asking for help. Come in. I don't understand why you haven't afforded temporary basic income to passersby. That's the group of working people they use the most. And we keep looking for solutions, some we have found, inspections work better, as far as I know, even legislation has changed, but we still haven't solved the problems. But why not just give what's most difficult to give to others? This is a temporary basic income. We have also reacted to this as an opposition with an amendment. Then there is one question, because I have listened very much to the MP from SMC, and I think that we both have the same problem with a certain definition, and the question is simple. What is it with you that you want to challenge the constitutional protection of the inviolability of an individual’s dwelling? We have a Justice Minister here between us. Madam Minister, I appreciate you, but quietly you're too quiet. You're too quiet. This is a question for you, you must answer as Minister of Justice, whether you agree. Is the constitution something you can go through at a government session, preferably by calling it a distance, you go? Yes or no? I'm asking you for an answer. I was stung by 51 pages of comments from the Legal and Legislative Service. I don't really know which way to turn here. I also had the opportunity to be a representative of the government. To me, the Slovenian system is that the minister has to coordinate something with the Ministry's legal service when this is coordinated, and the Government's legal service does not agree when these two legal services are finally agreed upon, and the legal service in Parliament says it is not good. My system doesn't count here. I had this problem when I was a minister, including Vice-President of the Government, which made it difficult for me when I had the opportunity, Mr President, to be in your shoes for a few months. And no one could explain it to me. When I asked, however, what is interesting is that some countries have gone in a better direction, they have unified legal services. When the thirst of legal service, which is ultimate, cannot then continue to have different opinions. What we Members have become now is a mini constitutional court to decide which legal service has a better opinion. Of course, the fact that there are 51 pages of comments is causing us stress is making us uncomfortable. I believe that all those who sit here are not important sides, left, right or middle, we want the law that will be adopted to be legally and constitutionally standing. And that is why I will end up like this, honourable Members, honourable Members. I give you today as a representative of the opposition, I believe that we will also be able to agree with the other Members and Members, give at least today when the special situation in Slovenia is, once again, more than 500 detected infected, it is serious, it is time for the policy to move forward and we push the experts forward. But we can't do that on this side. The opposition's task is to control the rulings. Let you step one step in our direction, let us support our amendments and I guarantee you that you will get our votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! So this package, already fifth, PKP5 brings positive measures for our citizens and for our economy. Of course, the opposition, as always, is looking for cowardly eggs, as they say, or a hair in the egg, but this is also the task or role of the opposition, yes. As a coalition Member, I will also present briefly those content that is really important for our citizens and our economy, if I start by extending, of course, the assignment of the worker to temporary waiting for work. This extension is regulated by the end of the year and the possibility is also allowed for the Government to extend this waiting by itself for up to 6 months if necessary. Thus, 80 per cent of the salary was replaced, but not less than the minimum wage. This is also very important for our employees. Secondly, it is very important for me to extend the measure of increasing subsidies to people with disabilities. So those people with disabilities who are employed in disabled companies get up to 10 percent higher subsidies than usual. This measure shall also be extended until the end of the year, with a maximum extension of six months by the Government. For us, and in doing so we have also sought to settle ourselves, it is also important that the hazard allowance and the specific burdens that volunteers will receive or have received in essence, including firefighters, be exempt from paying taxes and contributions. This supplement is not very high, it is between 10 and 30 euros, but it could still change someone's income scale and then result in income payments. That is why we have also agreed, and together with the amendment, that these supplements will then be burdened by taxes and contributions. We have heard today that the novelty in this law is also sick, up to 3 consecutive working days in a piece, once a year. Of course, this relieves health care — personal family doctors, including people who do not need to see a doctor immediately. Of course, we already have skeptics here who are wondering if people are going to take advantage of it. This measure was also envisaged as a coalition measure as an agreement. I think that this can now be a really good pilot project at this time and we will see how it will actually be implemented and whether it is acceptable for it to then be confirmed in the long term. In the area of health care, we have also worked in the SMC to ensure that the programme’s failure to provide space will then be complemented by the fact that even in the case of redistribution of personnel, the institutions are borrowing personnel, sending them to those locations where they have covid patients or where they need help, so that some institutions will not only be able to reach their programme because of this provision of space, but also because of the redistribution of personnel. This is also now on our initiative to be acknowledged in this way. The temporary deployment of employees is therefore possible due to urgent work needs. In this case, the worker gets a 20% supplement, which is not excluded then with another supplement, here was the last thing, I think, a misunderstanding on the board. So the 20% supplement is for redistribution and then for all those who work directly with covid patients, then an additional 30% supplement to the hourly entry of the basic salary. The supplements, as we know, have already been confirmed in previous packages, but the allowance for working with covid patients was valid only for the time of the epidemic, and then there was no epidemic. Of course, employees in institutions where they were infected, hospitals and pension homes worked with these patients. It is also appropriate that this supplement be admitted to them and that they also be recognized from 1. 6. Go ahead, because it's 31. 5. As it is said, the epidemic was completed. It is also very important that parents who have children up to and including the fifth grade of primary school will be at home for quarantine so that one of the parents will receive a salary refund of 80%. We have ensured this in this law because, under the Labour Relations Act, this supplement is 50%. Then, at the SMC initiative, we also included foster parents. It's not a big number, but it's right that we're honest with everyone and that not only parents are involved, but also foster parents. There are a number of measures in the area of social protection, and the Minister has also listed them in detail. Here I think it is crucial that the additional costs will not fall on the burden of residents in pension homes or the burdens of their relatives, but will be borne by the state. Temporary measures for self-employed persons are: monthly basic income is introduced, from October to December 100 euros for self-employed persons. For those self-employed who are paid contributions by the State, these are usually in culture or some athletes, and then 700 euros, that's the difference, since all the other contributions are paid by themselves. Even for self - employed people who are quarantined or quarantined, we have not forgotten. Here, on a proposal from the Ministry of the Economy, a EUR 250 compensation was then fixed for the one that is in quarantine for 10 days, if the quarantine lasts longer, for example for 20 days, then EUR 500 is the refund. This matter is now resolved. It also seems important to me that parents whose children are unable to attend kindergarten because of a certain quarantine are exempt from the payment of kindergarten for that time. A number of agricultural measures are being extended. In addition, compensation for public transport operators, namely public transport, which is occasional public transport and urban public transport, is provided in the new way, because they were not covered by previous packages. The costs for driver protection equipment, disinfectants and cleaning equipment shall also be provided to carriers. Then it is very welcome, here at the initiative of the Ministry of Education, proposed vaccination against influenza, first for the employees in education, i.e. in education, and then the government and also the coalition decided to extend it in essence and offer it to all citizens. So I welcome this measure as free vaccination against influenza for all citizens who want to be vaccinated. However, since we are in this Article 3 of the Act, which also has two amendments, namely the amendment of the Left to delete Article 3 and the amendment of the other opposition groups, i.e. that this transitional period should be reduced to four years, I would like to say something else in this regard. We cannot delete this article, we cannot support this amendment. Because there are also some health care providers in the public health network who do not yet have a regulated or provided health care provider — the responsible health care provider. Among these are some problems in family medicine, but not only because of covido, but also because of undeclared or unsuspected specialties in this area. So that the article cannot definitely be deleted. As I have already said on the Committee, here the SMC, which has always advocated public health, has worked hard and has also reached a compromise both with the Ministry of Health and other coalition partners, that this period, which was initially thought to be extended by five years, has been reduced and will now be extended by two years. The other opposition parties are now proposing one year. I say so, politics is a matter of compromises, and if you're in a coalition, if you can cooperate, of course you can achieve something. We have therefore achieved this reduction from a five-year to a two-year period, in order to extend it. Now, yes, we could say that due to covid, there will be a certain delay. Whether this is a year or two, it is difficult to say, but given that this Health Act, which envisaged and required a responsible health care provider in 2017, provided that all doctors in the primary field must have at least three years of work experience in the secondary field and a secondary level every five years of work experience, it is also appropriate for us to set a five-year transitional period in this respect, since if someone then took this seriously and that a young doctor then started to work, then in those five years he will also achieve these five years of work experience in the secondary. From this point of view, it also seems to us that this is a five-year transitional period, for a health care home or private person, anyone, that is, every health care provider in five years now provides a responsible business provider. However, I would also like to say that since Article 4 will not be dealt with separately because it has been lined, it has been drawn on the SMC initiative, Article 4 of the Act stipulates that this unlimited work of doctors or other healthcare professionals should be extended in order to continue working in other institutions in the afternoon. Therefore, this Article is now deleted and there will be no extension. With 1. 1. 2021 The limit is to ensure that all physicians are only allowed to work for up to 8 hours a week in other health care establishments. We believe that it is crucial that we maintain health care in public health institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u121	Thank you. The word is "Jura Ferrian."
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u122	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members, distinguished guests and, of course, all those who accompany us are very welcome! We have before us the fifth anticoronapack, which, like the other four, we have dealt with and adopted in the last months in the temple of democracy, which I hope is still helping the Slovenian economy, Slovenian health care and, of course, the Slovenian population. Allow me to highlight some of the key elements of this anti-Korona package or package in this introductory part of the debate. These are measures aimed at preserving jobs. I can certainly place a measure of partial reimbursement of the remuneration of waiting workers on temporary waiting for work. Of course, it is also important to compensate workers for a certain quarantine. In a number of cases, 80 % of the remuneration for child protection in quarantine also solves a number of hardships. The antikorona package itself brings or prevents and saves the hardships of many micro-enterprises and self-employed. It brings an extension of the tourist vouchers that we have benefited from in recent months and which have many multiplier effects. I am sure that they will want their positive elements in the coming months. I'm sure it will be next year. Also, the measure of not having to visit a doctor for up to three days in the absence of a hospital certainly entails a necessary burden on doctors, who are, as we know, very burdened and under great pressure at this time. As an important health protection measure, it would also highlight the implementation of a national call for better access to health services and free voluntary vaccination against seasonal influenza. Of course, it is not negligible, because those who face covid-19 in the first line or who are concerned that those who are infected are adequately treated and, of course, also treated to be added an appropriate payment, here we are talking about an addition of up to 20% of the hourly position for work in the so-called grey zones, in the red zones, the employees will be entitled to an allowance of 30% of the hourly rate. Allow me, of course, to thank all health workers on this occasion in particular for all their efforts and contributions in dealing with the coronary crisis. Today we listened to part of the opposition that the second wave surprised the government that the situation in the homes for older citizens was not clear. That's not true. In the introduction, the Minister of Labour made it clear that homes for older citizens were ready, that protective equipment was sufficient, and that homes for older citizens or employees there had learned much in the first wave. Therefore, such deception is not, of course, meaningful. Then I would point out, I'm sure you're all also monitoring developments in neighbouring countries or Europe and around the world. However, if we focus on the European Union, in a number of Member States of the European Union, the measures are significantly more drastic than in Slovenia, and many other things could be said. I am not saying that these measures are too strict, of course, every government, every country, I believe that, by its conduct, it decides to do the best, but I would like to stress that the Slovenian government has taken a strategic approach to this problem, the epidemic or the coronary crisis, and has made a projection of what measures will follow the stages. It is true that national public television has not tolerated this, but I am sure that most citizens and citizens, however, are this press conference of the President of the Government mirror and have become familiar with the most up-to-date information on, we can also say, the most current public themes. Let me also touch the app Stay healthy. I sincerely hope that everyone sitting here today is already loaded with this app. I personally uploaded it as soon as it was available, and I also made it public, especially for the reason that I might have encouraged someone to do the same. It's about responsible behavior. It's about putting prevention in front of the curate. Yesterday there were 707 newly infected, today 745. I'm afraid those numbers are going to grow. I wish, of course not, but it is realistic to expect that this will happen in the coming days. And by doing so, we will settle the account for the irresponsible conduct of some individuals or some individual groups, settle all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, although I am sure that the vast majority are acting responsibly, act preventively and consistently, taking into account the actions of the Government and the NIJ. And not just because that's what the government or NIJ said, but because they're basic things that I think we all understand. In spite of all this, something very special happened in this Chamber today, for if the person who had taken the mask off before, let's say, for a good month, so scrupulously resisted wearing the mask, not least at the meeting of the National Assembly itself, but then a good month ago, if I recall correctly, on September 11th, at the session of the Finance Committee, he refused the mask when I brought it to him, and today he wears it, which I am very happy to do, because it is one step and encourages citizens and citizens who accompany our parliamentary debate that those individuals and individuals or groups, some percentage of the population who do not adhere to the measures, including in this action, which I can say to encourage them to wear masks. It is said that someone who did not wear the mask before and now wears it, that is certainly commendable, to encourage such conduct. I believe that such cases will be even more important for our country in the coming days. So it is right that we commend good things. A few 10 minutes ago, an initiative came from the opposition, by Mr Jew, to let everyone wear masks, let us stick to the measures. So we see that even the voice of understanding exists in some parts of the opposition, which is very encouraging. Wearing a mask, keeping the right distance, hygiene coughs that if we don't feel good, stay home, limit our contacts – these are some basic virtues that I think we have found in the last few months if I may express myself in this jargon. Above all, to deal with it responsibly with ourselves and others. Because I am sure that this is also what the vast majority do, but it is true that a few individuals can jump-start the epidemiological picture of the country, and that is unfortunately what is happening in these days. After all, we are all responsible for public health. And fighting a co-vide is our fight together. However, we can have the same views, different views, different views, right that we have different views, but this is our common struggle and success itself is really up to all of us. Respected and respected! I will conclude my debate somehow by referring to what has been happening in the introduction of today's 46th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, and by giving a word of freedom of speech. This verbal connection, today, has been illustrated, some use or use only when it is necessary to limit the freedom of someone else, in a completely wrong or different context, as freedom of speech is supposed to be used. Respected and respected, I am not ashamed of what I have said, nor am I behind what I have done. I want and I hope that the rest of you who are sitting in this room, respected co-workers and co-workers, have the same views on these two elements, because then there really shouldn't be a problem for people to know and see, and there is simply no problem here. But if that's the problem, then that's the core, that real problem somewhere else. Respected and respected, I will personally support the anti-corona package number 5, which is financially heavy over EUR 400 million, and from a human point of view, I am convinced that it is worth much more. It addresses Slovenian health care, the Slovenian economy, addresses citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and does not refer to the elite, does not refer to the banks, which apparently some of you have been hitting on parliamentary food today are very disruptive.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Procedurally, colleague Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u124	This honourable Member, Jura Ferrjan, returned to the procedural event that took place at the beginning of the meeting when we hit the benches. Not because of the Government's actions, but because we were not allowed to present the views of the parliamentary groups because the Vice-President here took the floor to the Members, he did not give a procedural one. And you know very well that last night at the 8.15 meeting, that's exactly what we were talking to you about, that the chairman didn't comment on the debates, but even less on the views of the parliamentary groups. So I look forward to the apology of Ambassador Ferjan, for what he has just said is unforgivable, malicious and unrealistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u125	Colleague Tomić, this was not a procedural proposal, and we talked about it as well. And I ask that we proceed with the debate. My colleague Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Please don't jump back again, I'm telling everyone and not you, Mr Pojbich. Don't jump back. I listened to that thing at the beginning of the session, and we'll talk about it. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u126	Mr President, thank you for your instructions on how I should discuss and what I can discuss. I'd only say the following with one sentence. It was an abuse of the rules of procedure, which was why the situation was the way it was. And the vice president reacted perfectly. Now, Madam President, I will go to the debate on what we are discussing today, namely the CAP5. First of all, I've listened to so many such, different, different attacks, deceptions, half-assed lies by some opposition parties today. I am particularly struck by the one we have been listening to for a long time by the mantra of how this government of Janez Janša is disrupting the public health system. I personally estimate that this is an extremely inappropriate instigation of anyone sitting here in this national council. Those who have read the law of the PKP5 and who also know and follow the policy of this government can see that this is far from that lie or non-truth. The government in this law is not trying to disrupt public health, but is trying to pool all the resources in the health system in order to help in these circumstances in which we are. And I think if that's wrong, if it's bad, it's harmful that we help people, all the resources that are available, no matter what part of health work they are, whether they're concessionaries who are either part of public health, or whether they're private health care, you see for yourself what the health situation is, in what circumstances health is working at the moment when such a catastrophic situation is, when you see for yourself, how many new infections are every day and so on, and it's definitely necessary and every reasonable person living in this society and in this country, regardless of political affiliation, would understand and advocate that we pool all the resources to help people. This should be the basic guide and objective of all of us sitting here, including all others who are receiving aid or who are implementing it. And if everyone were aware of this, believe me, there would be no such instigations, such deceptions, such attempts, which have absolutely no sound, fundamental reason to debate it. Once again, this law does not destroy public health with anything, and this government has not done anything to destroy public health until now. However, you have spent 70% of your time discussing this debate in this way by the opposition. And why are you doing this? Why are you doing this? I don't know. For what reasons? The fact is, in these circumstances, in which we are, every individual, everyone who is engaged and knows anything, is welcome in the healthcare system that we come to the end of this matter. We don't even know what else is coming. This government has done great, I have to praise it now, I have done great, I have prepared PKP5, I believe we already have the fifth law, I have responded in time, I have prepared everything that is necessary to deal with this situation. Of course, at the same time, we must be so reasonable as to speak medically on the other side of this system, and the policy to join forces and to convince citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia that we also take these things into account by the Government. Because if we do this to all of us, to each of our friends, to our fellow citizens and also to our political officials, people will take this seriously and will also take this matter seriously. And believe me, it's not going to happen that we're going to have 700, 800 infections a day, but we're going to have significantly fewer. And one more thing that's very important. If we, some of us, I certainly understand, some of the opposition are not primarily concerned with our personal health. If we are not able to understand that when these measures introduced by the Government protect personal health first, we pretend to be ourselves, then others, then there is something wrong with those, unfortunately. And I just can't get past that fact when some of the people in the crisis, including the opposition Members, took part in these cyclings. We've got pictures. Today I can get a whole bunch of pictures. Yes, what is the responsibility of these Members and Members, that is, the politicians who should be the first to do everything to show people that it is not an individual, that we can only bring this story together to a point in order to protect public health, our personal health and everyone else in this society and country. We all see what's going on around us. Look at Italy, Austria, so I won't tell everything, even the story, Croatia and so on. And we think someone made it up, and I don't know where. The situation around us is critical, and so is ours. This government, thank God, is actively working with its actions and aware of its responsibilities and does not fall on any different flossules, such and other interpretations, aware of its responsibilities that in such circumstances it is necessary to be sober, to act soberly, to take sober measures. And one of these sober, important measures for us to survive this country in the right way is also the fifth KPC. I will now briefly fly through just a few of the key things in this law so that we know once again what we're talking about. And I very much ask all Members and Members to stop this insult, incitement and in the end, yes, but now the procedural question should be more important than the content. And then we use the punching, and I don't know what's going on with the food, and I don't know how much time I don't know, instead of dealing with the content that's absolutely necessary to save people's lives. And some procedural issues are more important than substantive issues which are crucial to the health of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. That's what makes me so sad. And I would not expect some people who have always advocated something completely different, but in such circumstances they try to do everything they can to ensure that such legislation, which is absolutely necessary for all the structures in our society, is adopted as late as possible and that as much damage is done. And that's just because it's not the right color government. This is extremely inappropriate and unacceptable, and there is a thousand and one proof. There was a whole lot of that evidence today. And under the pretext of destroying public health, you try to convince people that what we do, what this government does, is bad. I assure you that people, citizens and citizens see this very well and understand who is the one working for them, in their interest in the matter, and who is the one who exposes his partial or personal political interests as a priority instead of working for the people, for the people, for what he has been elected. That's extremely irresponsible. And now to get back to the law, just a few brief points. Thus, this law prolongs the subsidisation of waiting for work at home, the monthly basic income for self-employed persons amounting to EUR thousand 100 per month, for employees in health care and social welfare institutions new wage supplements are introduced, for direct work with patients and users of social security services in grey and red zones is set at 30% and for reallocation wages will be higher by 20%. The State will finance health and social welfare institutions to purchase protective and other equipment for covida-19 management, and will also cover revenue losses due to non-implementation of public health care programmes or the unsuspected capacity of social security institutions. Companies will be able to continue to benefit from subsidised waiting for work at home, and salaries for quarantined workers will continue to be covered by the State. The news has paid the wages for those who do not come to work where a child was quarantined. As the Minister said, the measures contained in the draft law have been designated as a safety net for vulnerable groups, employees, jobs, the economy, in short, all segments of society. These include education, education, agriculture, infrastructure and enforcement of criminal sanctions. So with the law, simply put, we want to help all people who need help under the circumstances. Therefore, I congratulate the Government, congratulations to the Ministry of Labour, the family, all those who helped prepare all five laws to be and respond in a timely, quality and responsible manner. One last thing to conclude, however, I do not mind if the opposition also proposes a good solution. Thank God he's proposing it. I don't mind. I've said in the middle or in the introductory or somewhere that we have to work together. However, we are all aware, and we need to know that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the one and the coalition that cannot wait. The proposals may be a million, but we all know, the funds are as they are, but within this it is imperative to find solutions and know what is priority, and what is less priority, and what is not priority. And this government, this coalition can do it, it believes it, and it knows it, and it does. This is what our citizens and citizens expect from the responsible government. Thank God we're such a team that we're dealing with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u128	Thank you very much. First, I will respond to calls of reason and cooperation. We – now we have the fifth anti-korona package ahead of us and be honest – have always proposed in the opposition a whole bunch of amendments that were the voice of reason and have never supported any of them because you have not heard us and because you are not interested in cooperation. And now this law that we have before us again represents the sum of all the policies of John Janša. In short, politics, democratic procedures and the voice of the opposition constitute an obstacle. We saw the obstacle today when we wanted to express our position, but we were not allowed. Obstacles are also media, obstacles are trade unions, and the people are also an obstacle. And the only objective of these policies is to destroy all public services under the pretext of emergency. Or, as the Legal and Legal Service says, at the time of the adoption of Zujf, whose authors were you, opaquely, indistinctly, inconsistently. And this is permanent damage for citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Pika. You're not doing well, you're doing a lot of damage, you've used the health crisis to break down the constitutional order of Slovenia, which is 30 years old. And here, too, I call on Mrs Liljano Kozlovich, Minister of Justice, to define and cease to remain silent in the face of these eccentric violations of the Constitution. The Left respects the measures and this narrative of yours, but we are not left for it, but we are left for all who are not you. Look, we've been in isolation from home a few times. Interesting, on the right of no one. Where are you hiding them? Why? The Škofov Conference; I believe that religion plays a great role in the lives of many people, but how in a church without distance, without masks they sing, pray and there are older people who are susceptible to infections, come home to their children, grandchildren and then those children in school experience no measures, but they can be infected by parents and old parents. Let's be righteous, for God's sake. Three thousand people were on Brez, we saw photographs with no distance and no mask. Why don't you talk about it, but with your finger you're pointing at us? Why don't you ever say Hojs wears a mask under his nose and hangs out with the kids, that the Minister of Education goes to events without masks, that the government team at Kolpa during the worst outbreak of the epidemic goes without a safe distance and masks. So, please, stop blaming everyone for the opposition. But again we have so-called subsets in the middle of this antikoronic package. And that's what's unacceptable. What does the deregulation of the price of a book with an antikoronic package have? What's his home invasion? The police union himself said he didn't want the powers of inspectors. Now the cops and the cops are supposed to hand over the quarantine decision to the people. How this contributes to the peace of citizens and citizens who, by the way, are intimidated by government speakers instead of letting things go. In short, you used or grabbed this epidemic in the wrong place. For seven months since the outbreak, not one infection clinic has been able to build, but you are peacefully planning 780 million for the armory, of course because Pompeo has arrived and there are no masks and safety distances in Bled, but he quickly said that China is not allowed to do business, but that we will buy weapons in the future in the United States, and there will not be so many investigations. In short, we are in the opposition to re-commit 26 articles of the amendments. And we're constantly preparing them, and we're always taking them very seriously again, but we're always running into deaf ears and we're going to try again. In short, I will concentrate on the cultural sector and especially on self-employed people, because the reference date for obtaining aid set at the beginning of the epidemic is still 13 March, which is inadequate and totally unfounded. Because, according to the government proposal, only those registered by at least 13 March are expected to receive assistance, and we propose that the core event belongs to all those who have decided on the activity at least until 1 September, because otherwise all those who have registered after the declared end of the epidemic will be severely harmed. And that goes for Article 85. In short, the then declared epidemic was concluded, formally by cancellation and symbolically by that famous flight of military aircraft over the homes of older citizens, and therefore it is entirely groundless to grant aid only to those registered by at least 13 March. In short, some period of summer, interesting, virus in Slovenia that was not. However, it would be fair and appropriate for the basic income to belong to all, including those who decided by 1 September at least for their activities. Then, if we move forward, paragraph 88 of the first paragraph provides that the beneficiary’s statement that, due to the consequences of the epidemic, he cannot carry out an activity or carry out it to a substantially reduced extent, that it is public information and that it is published on the website of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. In short, the publicity of such a statement by independent entrepreneurs is in fact an interference with personal data as the financial and material position of an individual is revealed to the public. And the public publication of such personal circumstances by the beneficiary as regards his material situation is in fact contrary to the protection of personal data and also constitutes a threat to abuse and discrimination. For those reasons, we propose deleting this paragraph and respect the dignity of the people who will be forced to ask for it. We have also tabled an amendment to Article 90, because, like self-employed persons, individuals working through civil law contracts are not entitled to any compensation for lost income at the time of a given quarantine, although there are no grounds for such a distinction. And also these persons are considered to lose often the only source of profits or income if they are unable to carry out their activities or organise their activities at home. Finally, this deregulation of the price of a book in 127th Article, which in only one sentence crosses the whole law. It is not clear why the deregulation of the price of the book would be among covid measures, as the law has been in force since 2014, and the government has completely abolished this law in this antikorona package without the knowledge of publishers, without the knowledge of the bookkeepers. This seems unacceptable to us, completely without public debate, without involving stakeholders. That's how this government works. It is very difficult to bear any criticism, even though it is well-intentioned and constructive. You know, it's a dictatorship. Simply, however you turn, those who are unable to listen to a different opinion, even here in Parliament, seem to be getting very excited about democracy. I'll finish here. I find it unacceptable, I expect Minister Lillian Kozlovich to be defined until the anti-constitutional measures of this government are taken. And I want you to really talk, because we have enough of your silence. You entered politics with promises of ethics, and you had to, just your client. What we are experiencing right now is shameful and unworthy for Slovenia, because, as I said before, we have kept constitutional arrangements for 30 years, and now, under the cover of the epidemic, they are taking fundamental rights away from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Any other wishes for a debate? More. I'm going through the application list. The application shall be made. The first one has the word Joseph Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honors are here! Dear guests from the Ministry! This package somehow solves problems in the field of work, in the field of health. In fact, some measures under previous laws adopted, such as waiting for work, remuneration for workers' salaries and also due to certain quarantines, are being extended. This PKP5 has actually taken into account the proposals of those parents who are employed and the child is quarantined and then protected. In fact, they will now have some decent compensation because they must be at home. So he took into account his parents' wishes, he took into account the wishes of the economists. We have also tried to introduce or the government is trying to introduce some good amendments, proposals from the economy, including some from the opposition. But if I put it that way, among other things, there are some solutions on the table, which, of course, also cost something. We said the package was a heavy circus of 400 million euros, but according to your homework, you can't make pancakes unless you break your balls. And today we're in a crisis situation, this government is saving lives, and it's actually called some kind of crisis management. I think this government is successful at this. Nevertheless, there have been several criticisms in this session today, most logically by the opposition, but, as has been said, you are saddened because we do not come together because some amendments of the opposition are not being undermined. It grieves you not to try to exploit all public health capacities, but then this government call to increase accessibility, which, of course, some of you do not like. Of course, we have different views on a certain solution to the problems, a respected opposition, but we also have some different views in this parliamentary group on the past, that is to say, the solution to these waiting types, and that health care, when ministers from your quotas were in those mandates, did not do anything, but there was no crisis. We are aware of the need for waiting types to be resolved, but there have actually been double problems that are being solved, or even triple ones. As a result of this increase in covida, the availability of other services in health care is still somewhat difficult, but it is certainly working in the direction, with the aim of stopping this, and this is urgent if we express ourselves medically. Now is not the time to decide and coordinate until the new year. Today, we have also heard some inappropriate expressions about this house, namely, stopping the madhouse, the corrupt, the perverse, the harmful, the Jancism. I don't think such a dialogue is appropriate for the temple of democracy, but it's even less appropriate when you get back to that kind of expression, and then you start creaking like little kids, with your legs and your hands. Above all, there has been some nagging in this adoption already on the Committee on Labour, already on the Committee on Health, but only to criticize and not to propose any concrete measures that would give immediate solutions. Let's just say that time is not our ally at this point, because this epidemic is almost repeating itself to us. I hope life doesn't stop again. People, people with disabilities, who need frequent medical and rehabilitation treatments and so on, are warning us and we will do everything we can to protect them. And yet, we're trying to save, and then we're trying to get some pollen under our feet. It is urgent to do something about this waiting for these patients, but after something is suggested to actually involve all possible healthcare professionals, doctors, even private people, because we know that the staff is either way too small, and then this is not okay, someone doesn't fit, and immediately panic, see, privatize the health care, this will all be wrong. So I have to stress once again that there are no aspirations after the privatisation of public health, but there may be some aspirations of certain stakeholders in public health who want the situation to remain the way it is. They may also want to keep these waiting types as they are. And now I ask you, the well-respected opposition: Do you want to preserve the health care we now have? Do you want to preserve the waiting types we have now? Because the longer people wait for a health service, the more they are squeezed into the angle and the more likely they are to reach out for a self-paying health service, of course those who have this option, and those who have the money, and that is true. So I think it is better for us to take advantage of all possible capacities in this situation, to reduce waiting lines also with the help of private doctors, health workers who are not part of the public health network. Indeed, in France there are 400 insurance companies, through which health care, public and private are financed in one way or another, and they also have the possibility of a nurse, as we say at home, to provide their services through their company, and there is nothing worse than our health care, that is clear. Thus, many institutions welcome these new measures under the CAP5, as well as those that have already been, among them were the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, a advocate of the principle of equality, then in fact some pension associations. Many proposals have also been made to correct any more of what is proposed. Most of the time, I think it's been taken into account, but of course it's not possible. And if you could just at the end, it's not always okay, it's criticizing that it looks like we're all upset in here, but it's somehow being set a positive example also by sticking to these measures, by sticking to the rules, by also doing so, for example, because somehow we've also ensured that people can be vaccinated against the flu free of charge, by example, that we will be able to use our own example, and that we will also show ourselves to people that we really should be followed. Then in a way, maybe within a month we'll get back to normal and put these masks on the real side. I also think that it is right to say that there is private competition in health care because it cannot harm that the quality of health services in the public health sector is also partly increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u131	Thank you. The word is Tina Hefferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u132	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Today, I was shocked or surprised by some of the discussions of the coalition members. We could hear, the government reacted in time, the government was doing well. I don't know what numbers you're looking at in the daytime, but according to the data we can follow this week, we have over 700 infected people a day, so probably the government has missed out on some of the measures it's now taking. I would also point out that we had warned in the opposition in the summer, personally asking even the question of the question of dealing with the co-existence of the crisis to the Minister of Health, Mr Gantar, who was then very confidently answering how the border with Croatia does not close, how he does not see the need for this, how the government is prepared for a new outbreak of covid virus and so on. Today, we see that numbers speak differently. It is not that we say in the opposition that everything is wrong, but the actual situation shows you that you are not coping well with this co-vid crisis and are late for action. The fact that in the opposition today we are dealing mainly with some form and not the content, here I must comment in a way that every democratic measure is primarily a democratic form in order for such a measure to be taken. And today's vice-president's manoeuvres at the beginning of this meeting point to some tendency of this government to stage some kind of repression where it's not the city. We saw today in the Houses of the National Assembly, when the words of the Members were taken away without any excuse. And so today we can also see in the proposal for a law in Article 13, when the gathering of people in private places and premises is restricted or prohibited, without the need for a judicial order, as is customary and necessary in all democratic countries. And here's the moment that makes this marriage, at least for me, unacceptable. I do not condition support for the law by adopting some opposition amendments. I reserve my support for this law by removing provisions from it that do not fall within this intervention law to deal with the cot crisis. And that's repression. And we've been doing this over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again at the fifth corona package. This repression, which you place in anti-Korona laws over and over again, is simply unacceptable to such a democratic society as we want to be. To say that the government is dealing with this co-vid crisis in a timely manner is kind of incomplete, at least because the government is coping not only with the health crisis, but also dealing with other systems, says repression. And like I said, there's no place for that here. Of course, today's marriage, if there's anything left to do with it, as we now see it, I certainly won't be able to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The word is Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u134	Thank you, President. Dear Members and Members! In the SAB party, we try to be correct whenever the SDS party and others who make up the government coalition come before this assembly with some measures that we think are useful and that are good for people and we commend them. I think that's the right thing to do, and that's what everyone should do. And of course there is no doubt that even in this fifth package there are a number of things that are good and that will benefit citizens in this difficult health and even more than the health crisis for people, and that is, of course, to greet them. When I say this, of course, I do not agree to the various implementations of the coalition Members, who, when they say what is good here, say that, thank God, we have the government of Janez Janša, that she did it and that she saves so well and so on. I think that in the crisis that we are in, and in the situation that the European Commission or the European Union have finally reacted in the way that it is necessary to allocate certain resources to address this crisis, virtually every government has acted in a similar way as regards some of these main measures: extending the possibility of waiting for work, compensating for quarantine and so on. So I really don't think that's some nuclear physics that you should be grateful for now and be extremely grateful for because you're saving it and because you're saving it quickly. In the situation we are in, every government would have to, and I'm sure, solve such things in the best way possible and as quickly as possible. But I am, of course, a member of the opposition and I do not trust this government. I don't think he's taking the country in the right direction and not solving things the right way. In particular, I am disturbed, like many of you, by the fact that in times of one of the worst crises, as I said before, not only by health but also by the crisis of the economy, the crisis of education, including social life, social life and so on, there are some things happening in the background that give a bad taste of everything together that leads to the formation of another republic, a republic that most of us do not want. All of this is totally unnecessary. Together, we should join forces and, at these moments, focus all our efforts only on how to best overcome this crisis and our country and our economy on the right path. And when I say this, I'm going to look at this PKP5 right now again, this last law before us, which once again brings bad will with it, because it contains not only some provisions relating to this area, but on the other hand it is also, as the Legislative and Legal Service has said, a collection of novels that interferes in certain areas. And then, of course, in the opposition, we're always nervous about what's happening and how you're going to intervene in other areas and how you're going to regulate things that don't fit into the code of intervention because of covido, especially if you're acting potentially unconstitutionally. I am aware that each time the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is, of course, a very handy tool for the opposition to show how the coalition can't work. And as you know, I do not always agree with this opinion, but there is only one legal opinion and every legal opinion must convince me with an argument, but I am convinced by a number of arguments in this broad legal opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on this law of the CAP5. One of the main findings, and this is not an opinion, is that, on the one hand, this law, which contains intervention provisions, provisions relating to the fight against the crisis, and on the other hand, a collection of novelties which interferes with individual laws, suspends individual provisions of laws and so on. Such a mix, which we are now going through for the fifth time, is not in line with the rule of law, with the principle of transparency, legality and so on and allows abuses and such abuses to occur in the opposition. A marriage like this started, if you remember, with Zuyph, I remember exactly what kind of mix 24 or how many laws it was back then. Such a law is a bad solution for us legislators from the point of view of the legal system and of some transparency and also transparency. Even if the coalition puts its amendments on every article, virtually every article. Not to mention the opposition's amendments. If I proceed with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, not only are there two types of provisions that should be treated differently because we have limited options for a referendum when it comes to one provision but not necessarily for the other. The referendum is one of the highest forms of democratic decision-making, and now this restriction on the referendum will apply to everything that is in this law, because it is all mixed together. It applies only to those laws that relate to some intervention measures in some, say, state of emergency. Thus comes a great, great thought. Furthermore, the Legislative and Legal Service is still talking about a vaguely defined duration of action, and I will return to the retroactivity of provisions that are not clearly explained, in certain cases, as you know, retroactivity is allowed, but must be duly justified. He's not here. The sources of funding are unclear, but we do not know at all whether or not they will be. This is clearly not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure which provide that the budgetary resources must be indicated. Irregular explanations for individual articles which do not meet the requirements of business are not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and are therefore at risk of falling before the Constitutional Court. Inexplicable and incomprehensible legal provisions, where the article itself and the explanation itself do not comply, are still an incorrect address, which relates only to the intervention part of the law, but not to the other part which I mention. And finally, and that personally bothers me the most, a violation of the principle of legality. This is an extremely important principle, which stipulates that the executive branch is substantively bound by the Constitution and the law, which means that the power to issue a sub-law must contain substantive criteria, and that only a single power to issue a sub-law is in breach of the principle of legality or that I will be simpler, the Government has reserved itself the right to decide, on its own and without criteria, when and when measures will be in force. Thus, the duration of the application of legal measures, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, cannot depend on the full discretion of the executive branch. Here it is. The Government itself intervenes in very important rights, but, at the same time, beyond the rule of law, it reserves the right that it itself will be without criteria, without the involvement of the National Assembly and the legislator, to determine until and for how long these measures will be implemented. Because I know that legal matter is not very interesting for people, I'm going to go to the substantive area now. As we say, it is very important for us in the SAB party that as soon as possible, and as you emphasize, the best for people and the economy responds to the challenges ahead. And in the work you do, thank you very much and thank you for the work you do. Of course, it is very wrong when solutions are constitutionally controversial, such as the possibility of entering private spaces, for example, or if solutions are solutions that we do not agree with. Since one such solution is related to reducing waiting lines, allow me to tell you the opinion of me and our parties in this regard. We are aware – and I will speak for myself because this is my debate – I am aware that the person who is sick is totally irrelevant, even to someone who is very sick, whether it will be the time for an early review and treatment in the private sector or in the public sector. He just wants to get his turn and be healthy as soon as possible. And given how long we've been dealing with waiting lines, we're looking for solutions and we can't find them, we're in the SAB party and, again, if I say so, I'm personally convinced that something has to be done. In this case, we're not just like this, and yet we're against all the solutions you're offering. This is also against the possibility of private people helping with their knowledge and work. But every solution, including such an intervention, must be careful not to undermine some of the foundations of our systems, our constitutional and legal order, our social arrangements. In our case, it is public health; a good that many of us consider to be extremely important. I'm talking to my colleagues in America. I've got quite a few of my fellow mediators, we're a little on the phone. Do you know what they care the most about the covid epidemic? Do you know what worries them the most? How will we pay for treatment if we get sick! That's what my fellow lawyers and other fellow mediators tell me. It's their main concern, what if I get sick, how I pay for treatment. We don't worry you. With us, the country takes care of everything. But how much longer? We must help this health system, this value that is truly incredible and that we can be proud of, but not that public health will become increasingly weak, while private people will be strengthened and we will have America in ten years. Or in 20 or 30. That's not gonna happen tomorrow, I know that. Thus, in the party Sab and I personally are not against the involvement of private parties, but under precisely defined conditions that will not interfere with the public health system. And here we come to the fact that some of us on the right are left-wing, some on the far left think of us as neoliberals, and we are obviously in the middle looking for some of these socialliberal solutions that would be good for people, while at the same time preserving our values of the social state. That is why we have also proposed this amendment, under which we are first-signed and signed by LMŠ and SD parties, in which we propose a cascade system to implement this call for reduction of waiting types. Let us first see if there is any spare capacity in the public sector. People may not know that there is no problem in the public sector that people are busy, that operating rooms are occupied, that there are not enough nurses. No, the problem is, there's not enough money. I have already mentioned the case of our colleague, a former MP, a well-known orthopedic surgeon who says that I will not now mention his hospital that he has paid for operations in his hospital, where he works, until mid-September. There's no more money from there. And he wants to work, and the nurses are available, and there's an empty operating room! And there are tools available, so it's equipment for this operation, and so on. But there's not the money the office would pay. And if this is a problem, then these capacities in the public sector must first be filled in in this way. This is only fair and this is only right, given how much money this country has already spent in this public sector. So we said that first of all, first of all, let's give priority and under certain conditions and for certain, limited time first public health, we call these public institutions, then concessionaires and then private people. And one of the amendments mentioned today – I think it was suggested, at least so said, by the SMC – which limits the work of the private sector, who are also employed in the public sector for a certain period of time, to a maximum of 8 hours per week. So the person who works in a public office can work for a maximum of 8 hours a week with a private person. That seems to me like a very good solution that's going in the right direction. For we all know the cases of doctors who are rare, thank God, most doctors, I greatly appreciate them, it is not just a profession, it is a mission, but they are among them, of course, as everywhere, even one and another. It bothers me that in the public sector they have some nice job, status, social security, title, education, some possibilities of some professional development, but most of their time and energy they prefer to focus on some of their activities in the private sector because of, of course, it pays them more. This is unacceptable, and we need to prevent this from happening at a systemic level because people, after all, also doctors, have to decide where to work. If they decide on the public sector, I expect them to do their part fairly and as necessary. Here's where I'm gonna end up leaving my colleagues some more time. For us in the SAB and for me personally, it is very important that all attention is not only to the resolution of codcrisis, that accessibility to the health system is also possible for all other patients, as it once was, and that we allow everyone to reach primary and secondary levels of health as soon as possible. That's what's important to us. And to conclude that we don't contribute to politicians by diversifying people and introducing further doubts as to whether covid exists or whether the crown virus exists or whether the masks are effective or not or what I know. I also have my concerns, many of them have, but I'm not a doctor, and it doesn't come to my mind to counter the entire medical profession with some of my findings, what's right and what's wrong and what's wrong with it. Those who separate people in this way, if you're smart, don't wear masks, or, all without connections, conspiracy theory, you're doing a lot of damage not only to the state, but to all public health. So let's give at least as far as this co-crisis and this approach is concerned, but let's sever the species and help all of us get through it as quickly as possible; for I say, regardless of whether we have different views. I am sure that all of you are familiar with this letter – we received it by e-mail – and famous experts, including Harvard and so on, similarly spoke Dr. Figelj at Studio City, these are some legitimate views, but if our country and our experts have decided on a line, let's just pull the lines here and follow and try this horror, this covid beat as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Soniboy Prince has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u136	Thank you, President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! I'm more of a time-consumer myself if I'm gonna give my buddy a few minutes. So, in fact, today, when we face this five-kron package, I'm going to be several hundred million financial resources to mitigate the consequences of this coronavirus crisis. I would also say that I resent the Government's failure to listen to help, at least as far as the economy and citizens are concerned, with these measures, even though I sometimes do not deal with many personally. What I would like to point out in my debate is that, in addition to these measures, which I mentioned in this package, some of the ones that we have proposed in the opposition in recent months, or with some delay of three, four months, from this good measure of waiting at home, 80 percent, to what I am pleased – that the Ministry of Labour, the family, which has only responded to my parliamentary initiative, is doing well when I pointed out in the question the inadequacy of funding or remuneration of employees working in the homes of older citizens. Now I see that they have made funds for this, even though I do not really agree with their resolution that the virus is being resolved in the homes of the elderly themselves. But what I would like to point out in these few minutes today is that we are dealing with today when we are actually putting out the consequences of the fire. We're putting out the consequences of the fire that's still going on. No, it lasts, it melts from week to week. We're not successfully dealing with the underlying problem. But the measures you take to eliminate the consequences are the coma to get, since, last of all, we owe ourselves, share something that our children will pay back — that is a small problem. But we, or the government, are on the verge of taking measures to limit the virus, and we are on the line of failure. And some wonder why the difference between today when we have 700 new infections a day, I don't know, the period of March, April, May, when we were able to convince a large majority of citizens and citizens, they followed instructions. What's the difference between that time and that time now? You want me to tell you? I'll tell you! You've lost your trust! Trust in citizens and citizens! For what? Because of catastrophic communication with the public. Pierre of the war of independence, with all due respect, today, far from playing his part. He's fighting with a departmental minister of health who's a calm man when he expects him to have a press conference for health measures. According to the popularity scale, it is high on top among politicians. No, we don't do that. Everything we accept also has financial threats to citizens and citizens. Are we at war with citizens and citizens? The President of the Government is also for those who are not his constituents, he is the President of the Government of all citizens and citizens. He'll have to be aware of this, but not to account on Twitter, through all the possible networks with RTV, I don't think there's a group that hasn't talked to him, which thinks a little differently than he does, but we haven't fought in these months. Contradictive measures; in the morning there is something, the afternoon of different measures. They're not considered elite. Let me remind you, restrictions on the movement of the congregations – you can't go unless you have a weekend. Great, we all have weekends! The same with Croatia – if you have real estate. We're making a difference here. Not to mention the discriminatory measures that have been taken in the last month as elderly pensioners, when they were waiting in front of the shops in the heat of the biggest heat, to let them in, not to say that we are not leaving them on public transport, but these matters. Trust is gone, it is essential, which is urgently needed in such crisis situations. Last but not least, what I think is particularly funny is that today she started or held the first session of the Commission of Inquiry, and I will read her title – the Commission of Inquiry on the provision of protective equipment and the measures of institutions and public function holders to infect covid-19 from 1 February 2020 until the purpose of the parliamentary inquiry – for the period of time that we had 10-15 infections in March were empty warehouses. Today, warehouses are full, respected colleagues, colleagues – flying to the government – and we have 700 daily infections. Are we going to have to replace citizens and citizens? Until you do so – one respectful attitude toward everyone in this country, from communication onward – I think we're being poorly spelled out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Janez Moškrič has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! We have before us a law that has been laboriously overtaken by the name of the antichrist law and even numbers are — five. I have to say that the word anti-koronic is probably inappropriate, at least for my concepts, even though it is employed, because if the law could get me a virus called covid-19, then everyone would support it – right? All 90 Members. However, since we know that this is not the case and that the reason for the Law on Temporary Measures to Eliminate the Consequences of Covid-19, which has already completed the fifth set-up – the fifth set-up – of amendments to the law, let us first see what the reason is or how long we have been dealing with this. When this virus developed in our neighborhood, we could only monitor it and unfortunately find that it also reached our country, our people. At that time, a general opinion in Europe was created that the only solution was really wearing masks and stopping this communication between the people as much as possible. We were able to do this quickly in the beginning, and it also proved to be very effective as regards the spread of the virus. We quickly plagued this spread among the population, but we paid dearly, in terms of what it means in our millennium, if you fortify so many and so many activities for two months. Even though many things have worked in the country, many things have also plagued us, and the result has been these laws. That these laws were excellent is also evidenced by the fact in the financial field, because we were in practice at the level of financial revenues at the end of April 2019. We were very happy about that, all of us. Perhaps the inhabitants understood it that way, and on the other end was the result — what? That we're a little too much, I'll say, I'll forget that this virus can come back quickly, even though the profession has kept repeating itself. I'll be very kind, and I'll say, we know exactly who's always opposed the action. The government's actions, which have always been confirmed by the government on the proposal of health professionals, have even been further integrated in the field of mathematics, logarithms, to calculate what might be happening to us. Here, unfortunately, certain public functions have been placed on the other side. Thank God everyone's wearing masks today, we're all wearing masks, and that's not what happened in this national council. Where are we now? Before these last days, we have been wooded against the infamous number of infected per hundred thousand inhabitants — the government has passed a law, a remarriage, because it has already been found that it will be a problem again in the fall. This law, which we have before us today and which prolongs again certain measures that have already been in previous laws, in particular with a view to preserving jobs, so that in the field of social protection – we know, homes for the elderly, lack of staff, so that they can move from one home to another, because we cannot build houses overnight, but when it can be infected. Then here's the story: private public. It's just a simple story. When two months in the public sector did not work so much and so many areas of our daily health care, our famous health delays simply increased dramatically. That's the negative approach. Sometimes we can fool around to thank God that even less of them died because they didn't go to the doctor. Because sometimes we know that too much pressure can also harm medicines – but this is my personal opinion that no doctor will think that I do, in general. But we are now in a situation where we can, even because some of the money in the health treasury is left because it has not been made when we can spend this money to speed up that pace as soon as possible or the frequency that our public health service is capable of. And it's again able to do it on a smaller scale because you know what happened. For example, we even dedicated our orthopedic clinic to covid clinics and then orthopedically moved and so on. By means of this law, we can make a call for 50 million values to which carriers can apply, as has been terribly taught, who is the carrier and who is the doctor and so on. But who said that just, I don't know, three, four private health care institutions would apply? However, perhaps certain sectors in public health have the option, the spatial capacity, to reorganise in the sense that it can also work after several hours in the operating rooms, it will be possible to do so and so on. [[…]] This is all about people, people who have health problems that can be solved and where the main problem is just money to fill in and help people. Once again, all measures are always linked to the opinion of the profession. Never — a government or a few individuals, some secretaries there seem to be aware of, perhaps in the inn That is how it is heard, so to understand our opposition. [[…]] That's it. Or perhaps that Mr President of the Government wrote this this afternoon and then it was, and these are the measures. Not at all. And if we are honest, we know that it is we — politicians, including this government — who want to soften these measures. We use all possible statistical parameters to how we can, what is the criterion for certain measures to be taken. Tell me, fellow opposition officials, when we even heard that we were not successful. Yeah, look, we're still very successful with statistics. The Czech Republic has 675 inhabitants infected with 100,000, Montenegro 587, Belgium 517, the Netherlands 439, France 330, Spain 297, the United States 209 and Slovenia are at 206 today. It will probably take many years for experts to figure out why this statistical data, which has now been given by countries to the world in recent months, is what it is. For example, if we look at certain countries: Serbia 25, Turkey under 50, even Germany 79, if I remember correctly from this table. It is said that there is such a derogation as to be such a derogation, this will be determined by experts for many years. The only thing, an accusation that hasn't been heard, is an accusation to test too little. Therefore, thanks to those experts who initially tested everything that had come, who had been sent by doctors, then were able to determine all the connections. I'm saying, when did it start to grow so steeply? [[…]] When the people, the people who were, I will also say I can be politically confident by our opposition, began to hide where they were. When they began to keep their mouths shut — if they did not keep their mouths shut — where they were, and experts found it difficult: yes, there was one 50th anniversary, but he did not say because there was democracy, freedom, and no one was questioning him. The experts just asked. As one of the previous laws clearly stated, written, accepted, application for all of us. When they had the app 5 days after it was made, all Slovenians would not have to ask doctors about correlations. Doctors should not be required to test those who would not be familiar with this application. You could practically test 90 percent of those who would be reminded of this app, yes, you have been – or you have been informed, as we say. What a mess it was! At the outset, the President of the Government stressed the importance of making it clear that we should give the application several times. Yeah, you did the opposite, because the Prime Minister said that, there were a billion concerns. Now we only have 100 grand, 130 or how many thousands of people. Not enough! And even those who could get in don't get in. The application would help healthcare staff, not the Slovenian Democratic Party; health personnel. To the health care department, once again! And I appeal to people to continue to do so, because this law further explains how it is with this data and so on. Indeed, a truly specific debate today went in the wrong direction. She did not talk about the law, she did not talk about the legal solutions, she did not talk about the fact that the former, the predecessors of this law put the country in a good economic state based, of course, on what was possible, but the incursion of enlargement is not in the Government, it is not in the National Assembly, it is not in one party, but it is in every individual. Every single person! If we stick to this, we'll turn the curve. Now we're where we are. Perhaps when it has already been challenged by a fellow Member; yes, interestingly, on the right or, I don't know, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, they haven't had the crown of the case yet, or yes, see, it might also say something, but it wasn't me, I'm just saying that probably no Member would have kept it quiet. [[…]] Praise be to all those who have followed all the instructions and so forth. So we follow the instructions, and we do our part, each individual, every Slovenian, and we, as Members, support solutions that have proved to be good in past laws. If I may, yes, also the suspension of the Single Price Act. We know when the label could have lowered the price in the first six months. When? At the fairs! Can we have fairs now? It's hard or impossible at all. Books can be printed and books printed, and the book is the most interesting at the beginning, at least for those experts or those who love books is at the beginning when they have a book, not after a bunch is in general use when you get it in a few years. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The word is Franci Kepa.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to the Minister, the secretaries, the other invited colleagues and colleagues! The current epidemiological situation in Slovenia is very poor. It's bad all over Europe. The numbers are a little different than they were in the spring, and they are much higher. It is only right that the Government takes these measures. They have been adopted in the spring to address economic problems, the problems of epidemiological health care, to extend the 100 % compensation measure in the case of an infection at work, to extend home waiting for all sectors, including self-employed persons under the basic monthly income circus €700 per month, plus EUR 400 paid contributions, which is about EUR 100 per person, to pay for covid virus wages, up to the 5th grade of children to parents, that they have 80 per cent of the amount of free protection in schools and kindergartens from masks to disinfectants, so that farmers also receive compensation in case of infection that independent entrepreneurs have the possibility of being home due to illness for up to three days. This is a measure that is very welcome. This measure was awaited by independent entrepreneurs for a decade or even more. Because so far it has been that 30 working days had to be paid by the entrepreneur himself, self - employed, that is 45 days running — that was it. This measure is very welcome and I think that all self-employed people who are over 100,000 in Slovenia will very much accept it. As a result of past measures, production in Slovenia in the industry has returned to solid rails and precisely because of these measures in the past spring, the situation in the economy, in the industry, is solid. Production is being improved and it is returning to the fortified rails. We are one of the best countries in Europe after achieving and returning production. The announcement of the extension of tourist vouchers to the middle of the second year is also very welcome. As far as the fear of the privatisation of health care is concerned, it is currently unjustifiable. Now we must take advantage of all human potentials to overcome the problems and overcome the virus, to make a little loss and to make the consequences nicer. Also about public property. Today, recently, a colleague from the Left struck with an object on the table and did damage. The damage was done on the table, on a public table owned by all citizens. That's how he advocates public good! If the table were privately owned, I don't think I'd be able to return to this place or return the damage immediately. I'll back it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Predrag Baković has the following word, Mr Nik Prebil is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u142	Madam President, thank you for your word. I don't have enough time left. I hope I'll be quick about it. After reviewing this proposal for a law, two provisions fell into my eyes; one relates to the 16th, the other to the 9th. It was also interesting to see how this Article 16 had changed, since it was first stipulated that fines and misdemeanours should be issued under the Law on Infectious Diseases by competent inspection, police and municipal authorities. Of course, then, some reprimand of criticism was introduced and the dictatorship rectified in such a way as to have the authority of an inspection, that, of course, the police and the municipal authorities, which may be empowered or then competent to carry out the criminal procedure, if they find a violation of the measures and those measures in question, or in their own words; therefore, the police and the municipal authorities are competent to conduct the criminal procedure under the Infectious Diseases Act if, in the exercise of their original powers, infringements relating to the government's order on the conditions of travel to countries where there is a possibility of infection and of coming from those countries are identified. [[…]] And when it comes to infringements of the government's order regarding restrictions on movement. This means, at home, that when a municipal editor and a police officer carry out their tasks, such as traffic control, they will also find violations at the same time: either taking into account the restrictions on movement or if a person may have come from a country where the risk of this infection is so high. So someone's not going to be tied to the seat belt and the cops are going to find out if that's it. That's how I explain it. This means that, in fact, it will be important to know that police officers and editors are already exercising your fundamental powers as soon as they are in uniform and when they enter a public place as well as a private place. Be preventive or repressive. This means that these violations will be carried out as a matter of priority at each step — or how? Please explain how this will take place in practice. It is also controversial to impose these tasks on the municipal editors. Of course, this can be transferred from state jurisdiction to local authority. However, it is necessary to take into account Article 140 of the Constitution, which provides that this is possible, but it is still necessary to provide financial resources for this. Are the funds provided? I don't think so. Therefore, the state should regulate this formally, organisationally and financially. It is therefore justified to criticise SOS and ZMOS, who are simply asking about the legality of action, the area of action, the appropriate level of competence, the appropriate equipment of municipal editors and so on. The specific story is also, of course, Article 9, which imposes the imposition of quarantine at home and the issuance of a written decision on the imposition of quarantine on police officers under the cover of simple administrative matters. This provision forces the police to carry out something that has never been and cannot be its core task. And that, Your Honor, is constitutionally controversial, and I will not be surprised if a request for a constitutional assessment is made. I believe that the Constitutional Court will also decide that this is not in accordance with the Constitution. And I wonder where the limit is. Is it possible that the police will also start issuing house decisions, house arrests, detention, or even house arrest orders? Tell me, dear colleagues from the coalition, who you had already requested a constitutional review of the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act. Do you agree with that? The question is hypothetical. I know the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Nick Prebil, preparing for Lidija Ivanuša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and fellow Members! Yeah, I don't know. I don't know. PKP6, and PKP7, maybe 20, 30. I don't know. So, we have a lot of things ahead of us, more or less of those key actions or strategies. Now, far from everything being bad. We never said that in LMŠ. We were constructive, and at the time of the cove, we made a strong injection over 300 amendments. But you know what? Nothing and no one was accepted. Therefore, please do not tell me about the absence of legislative proposals by the opposition, because this is not the case. We are proposing many things, and we have also proposed many things on the committee on this PKP law, and everything has been rejected. Now, these are the same measures that we have proposed to you, then you can transfer them back to another PKP or even to the same one, with your signature on the proposal, and you say that we will not be yours now, but let us settle the matter according to our own, and this is essentially the same solution. That's how you're double-crossed, and you don't want cooperation, even though you talk a lot about it. The government, instead of dealing in time with preventive measures – attention, prevention – is always better prevention than curative – but you have found time to end the independence of eight public agencies. Of course, it was a quick call, a coalition, and I really want to know where it is. Yesterday we even read about eliminating publicly available property records, respecting 707 infections. Yes, what in God's name is now a priority and important in the time of crisis in which we are? Let us leave it that Mr President of the Government has yet to be reunited with Mr Orban. You're investing more energy than you're obviously investing in things that have nothing to do with the cot crisis, with this health crisis. Not to mention that in the health crisis, the Minister of Health has no powers and is, in fact, silent, or that you are withdrawing these powers completely and even now, in the light of the articles before us, you bring something to the NIJ and add some repressive provisions to it. Your Honor, the National Institute for Public Health is not a repressive body at all. That's what they warn you themselves, unless it's in the background that the health minister sometimes says no to you, bearding the man at NICU to whatever you think you're up to. Your health system is colviding at 200 people in the hospital. I'm so, really, really interested in what the hell you did during the summer, when it was time to get ready for this, and that the extra capacity of the hospitals is guaranteed. With all the confusion we're witnessing, that the amendments are flying from minute to minute, and completely wrong communication, then, yes, the devil really takes the joke, I agree, and some ad hoc action is taken. And then, in fact, this government is still so fast that it overruns its own actions, which it presented to the public a week ago, and in fact sharpens the matter more than it needs or more than it did at the beginning. Let me get this straight. But the worst part is that you do not take into account or take into account the effects on people and the pressures of people. People are afraid. They're afraid of additional repression, afraid of covida. And most fear is the future — what tomorrow will they have to do, what will happen to the children who may stay at home, because parents will have to go to work, how long will it take, how long will it take them to get to a doctor? You know, sometimes I thought you'd come to a doctor because you're sick, but today is the way to get to a doctor if you're healthy. It doesn't make sense anymore, and I'm really wondering who to trust. In light of everything that's been seen, Your Honored Government, I'm afraid you can't be trusted. With this mess, it's really enough. The consequences will be severe, we'll all feel that. It's just that with this kind of miscommunication and so much contradictory action, we really go into some crazy state that I don't want to be. Given that I am almost certain that the amendments proposed by the opposition, which are both well-intentioned and qualitative, will not be accepted, but I cannot give my support to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Brickler King has now made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Members and Members, colleagues and colleagues from the ministries! A number of issues have been raised in the debate so far, not so much as a response to these challenges, especially by the opposition species, but rather a presentation of why the Government has decided to take such measures as we propose in the CAP5 and all previous ones that we can already verify in real life. In order to justify these measures being carefully considered, to be tested in a number of different compositions of the Economic and Social Council negotiating group, also verified by the Matey Lahovnik advisory group and, above all, by coalition coordination. Believe me, we've spent a lot of time, a lot of energy, that we've written these measures in the fifth antikron package. With this package, as I have said many times, we continue to take some successful measures for the labour market, for health, for health, for social protection, for education, for infrastructure and introduce some new ones. The successful measures from previous anti-korona packages were the refund for waiting at home for companies which, in the circumstances of the March/April epidemic, were unable to operate, and for companies that still face difficulties in their operations after the epidemic. The measure of co-financing of part-time work continues. Many jobs have been protected by both measures and this is very important. Why are jobs so important? It is precisely because one of the fellow Members pointed out that people gain confidence and a sense of security that the government helps when necessary and to the extent necessary. I can say that we have received recognition from many domestic and international institutions – it is difficult to say recognition, especially at home – and that is why it is so important that we hear that we have saved a lot of lives with these measures and, on the other hand, a lot of jobs. We have received recognition that, both in the European and global criteria, we have responded quickly and comprehensively enough not to say mass, respond to the situation and have protected almost 300,000 jobs with measures so far; we have protected more than a quarter of active jobs in Slovenia. This means that we have provided the employees with financial and psychological security, and we have provided businesses with experience just before the coronary crisis, when they were unable to obtain employees, all of us remember well this time, so that even after the chronological crisis, when the situation permits, they can start their production or services immediately. This is what has been happening in the past month or in the past months since the end of May. At the same time, we are also witnessing favourable movements in the labour market or in the unemployment register. With 90,000 unemployed at two-thirds of May 2020, we are currently at 84 000. And most of those, for whom unemployment has been reduced, have become employed. The Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, in its autumn report on economic developments, says that based on models and analyses, we can safely claim that the decline in GDP in Slovenia would be if there were no government measures in PKP1, 2, 3, 4 that this fall would certainly be at least 3 percentage points deeper. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a concrete information with which we can evaluate our work so far and on which we can also base measures in the fifth anti-korona package. I think it's a serious institution, I think it's serious information that confirms our direction. Let me reiterate once again that many economists believe that the Government has shown the economy, the population, the most vulnerable, that it is trustworthy, that it will help when it is necessary and as it should be, and most importantly, and that we are extremely grateful to citizens, citizens, businesses that they have all heard and trusted. With the fifth antikron package, we continue this way and build on this trust. In fact, it is trust and joint action or a common resistance to this virus and its consequences. This power of trust and joint action, the power of social solidarity and the responsibility of each of us, is far greater than those marriage solutions that we are proposing, and therefore, and on that power, we base our proposals and believe that this virus and all the consequences will be successfully overcome and overcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Lidija Ivanuša, Mr Robert Pavšič being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u148	Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a lovely greeting to all! First of all, I'd get sick of it because we're always listening to what we could do in six months. First of all, I would like to start by stopping in Levica idealizing your ideas that are not practical in practice, and perhaps focusing more on trying to prevent upcoming Friday protests, which are quite dangerous to public health and which you support all the time, you are promoting in essence. Then, in LMŠ, I do not know where you read that schoolchildren, that education will not get all the necessary protective equipment, because I too have read the law and it clearly states that in schools there will be funding for protective masks and disinfectants. So I don't know where you read this. You probably want to give people false information. Thus, Your Honor, today we accept the fifth corona package, which, like the previous one, mainly touches people. Without these measures, the consequences in the economy, in the labour market, in the homes for the elderly, in health care and so on would unfortunately be large and harmful. As regards quarantine, it shall be extended and renewed to allow for the application of an 80 % refund in the event of absence from work for the protection of a child who has been quarantined. As far as this is concerned, the matter is much more family-friendly and reduces the possibility of social distress. The possibility of payback is also extended, and a hundred per cent refund applies if a worker is infected in contact with another person. Then there is the extension of waiting at home for all sectors by the end of the year, for self-employed and micro-enterprises a temporary measure in the form of monthly basic income is introduced. Farmers covered by the activities they carry out will also be entitled to financial assistance in the event of incapacity to work due to covid-19 infection. Since I have always listened to comments on this PKP5 law, and what is being done and what is not being regulated, and what should be done with this law, here in this package PKP 5 help people, for those who create or work in different areas, for crisis situations, to mitigate the consequences of covid-19, and you are talking about instigating laws and the public with some terrible measures that are hidden in this law by you. I sincerely hope for the well-being of all of us to avoid this virus as soon as possible, to reduce the number of infections, but we will not achieve this until we are aware that Slovenia has not invented the virus, that certain measures must be taken. However, in order to be honest with you, today’s opposition that those who listen to you, who believe in you and trust you, speak to respect for the measures, otherwise all this help will be in vain. Unfortunately, this scrotum we fought for, which our Prime Minister has fought for, Mr Janez Janša, the bottom. We all know what this means for our economy, for our health, for our entire future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u149	Thank you. Mr. Alaj Kovačič has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u150	Thank you. Now, I don't mean to have a long-term controversy, but I would ask my only colleague to tell me an article of the bill saying that students, students and students will be given free masks.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Robert Pavšič has a word and then as the last in this round, Mr Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u152	Yeah, I don't know, I wonder what country you live in, and whatever you call it, or whatever colors you paint today, it's simply a breakdown of the systems that we've built and nurtured in this country for decades. Now let's leave Furs, Surs, the police, the NPU, let's just focus on the health system. If you trusted this site as you claim today, then you would also leave it to the purchase of protective and medical equipment, but not. You've gone one step further. Not only did you take this under your wing, but you even demanded private agents, illegally and even proven that. Now you're just continuing this story of decommissioning one system, although there are quite a few in this law. At first, you did it a little bit more secretly, and now it's pretty straightforward, because whatever we say in this national council, it's just a lot of speculation for you. However, these PKP packages show from 1 to 5 the actual political dimension and intention of everything together; that is to say, to break down what you think would be something else from this system of excuses. If you do not believe in Parliament in the opposition, see today's article in Dnevnik, title of the European Commission: Slovenian plans are fully announced. If you have been able to prepare the PKP5 Act, then you have certainly participated in the plans or in the draft recovery and resistance plan in the Government. The European Commission says that it is too large, too superficial, and the value of the projects is significantly higher than the amount allocated to Slovenia by the European Commission. But these are just the pieces in this article that actually point to your dimension. We are now hearing about the recognition of institutions. Which institutions, Minister? The European Commission? If such an opinion is a confession to you, then you can boast of such confessions and otherwise not. And success. What a success!? We saved lives. The epidemic, in fact, the results of the epidemic in recent days have opened our eyes and your success, regardless of which political current we belong to, proves the results. And the result of your seven-month work is 700 per day and 16 billion Euros of additional debt if we forget about all budget deficits. That's your success. And the fact that all the systems that have saved us so far have not saved us in the first wave, even though this is the same wave for me, has not withdrawn at all and the wave has been going on since December until now. The government didn't save us. We were rescued by an effective and self-sacrificing public health system, mainly with the primary sector. Why did Italy kneel? We all know why. Because he doesn't have a primary sector. They have all the private physicians. Now, as others have drowned, you will be saving the waiting species. Don't blind us, no! We all know what this is about. Only you will take some nice colors, some candy, pack them in PKP1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and so on, because this one is definitely not the last one, and expect us to support you in this. Not at all, not at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Madam President. 707 confirmed on the 48 tweets of the Prime Minister is an infamous unit of government incompetence in the face of covid-19, which was recorded two days ago; that is, on the day that the infections first survived number 700. But it is slowly not only with me, I think that even in the Slovenian public, it strengthens the feeling that this government incompetence is not only because, you know, the government and ministers are incompetent, but that we also promote a certain political agenda, a political interest and that government failure to deal with the covid-19 crisis and the abuse of this crisis to attack the leverages of power in this country is deliberate. And as we have seen in the last budget documents for 2021, 2022, which we have considered, and at the same time in this PKP5 package, this means that vital social subsystems such as this care, such as health care, are deliberately consumed, and on the other hand, some private capacities are being stored. In short, not just a blow to all the levers of power and power in this country, the government of Janez Janš is using and deliberately launching through the covid-19 epidemic to destroy the solidarity networks that exist in this country. The combination of a political agenda and purely naked government incompetence. For example, while the government has given priority to 780 million for purchases of weapons that we do not need, it has left behind all those who work in health care and care in the most exposed places. For these people, for example, the Health and Social Welfare Union has proposed to provide a 30 per cent supplement, and the government has only agreed to an additional 20 per cent. So why is it being saved in a medical proletariat, but there are weapons and private capital subsidies? The previous measures account for around €600 million, which is said to be more than € half billion, ended not in job conservation, but in increasing liquidity reserves of capital. The state is in debt, the budget is being drained to keep lobbying and capital centres of power in that country. Those who face the covid-19 epidemic, such as, say, those who work in the homes of the elderly, nurses, technicians, as well as in the health care sector, are let go. In Levika we have made an amendment following a letter entitled Call for Help, we are no longer able to make up for the Government by health and social workers, and we propose that the supplement or compensation for moving to another job be raised from 20 per cent to 30 per cent for these people. We also raise the crisis allowance for all who work in the context of the health and care epidemic, from 30 per cent to 65 per cent. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not want to declare an epidemic because workers in public good structures are subject to an epidemic allowance of 65 per cent of their basic salary. If you are wondering why the epidemic in this country has not been declared — because Janez Janša has a spar on the garage nurses in the nursing homes and in the staff working in the hospitals and so on. We want to fix this in Levica. We find it absolutely absurd that the Government is dealing on one side with, say, trading with Petrol shares, and on the other hand it simply does not find the means to reward, not to support those who risk infection and maintain older people's homes and health care. This is also true of the students working in these systems and, after all, of the volunteers. All these people are given an increase of 65% as well as an epidemic being declared. Once again, the only reason that the epidemic is not declared is that 700 infections per day should definitely be, because the government does not want to pay the legal obligations of collective contracts for nurses, for caregivers in the nursing homes and so on. Another manoeuvre of how crisis supplements, covid supplements, renounces workers in health and care is that they are not automatically received by all who work in threatened, so-called grey and red zones, but only by some. We're saying that everywhere there's a declared gray zone, a red zone, there's a 65% supplement going on everywhere. To conclude, the provisions of the CAP5 have suggested that health care should be privatised in a way that allocates EUR 50 million extra resources to private operators, while not providing the necessary funds for public health treasury financing. This is the privatisation of the public health system. In particular, since the application of so-called anti-pasm provisions is being suspended simultaneously. Why – so that the public funds of the Government can draw out a large-scale budget and finance in the medical and insurance lobby in the private sector everything that is financed to the detriment of public health, to the detriment of people and employees in public health.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u155	Thank you very much. That was the last debater in this round. I'm asking if there's still interest in the debate? I can see that. I'll open the list and please sign in. We have three reported discussers. The first to receive the word, Mr Bevk only, is to prepare Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. I only have 23 seconds. What the privatisation of health care will look like today is the most visible in the field of dental, occult and dermatology, where almost all services have to be paid or very, very long to be paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Now he has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Get ready, Mr. Primoz Sitter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u158	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! We worked a lot on this fifth package. I believe, and here, at some points, when the debate — which was more rare — by the opposition is correct, we accept some criticisms. Yeah, 51 pages of Legal and Legal Services and so on. Thank God. Most of these matters have been cleared up and I am grateful to the Legislative and Legal Service for this, we have examined their opinion, as always. The obvious fact that the issue is non-systematic – yes, of course, the epidemic is not systemic as well! If anyone has a textbook on how to act during the covid-19 epidemic, put it on the table. I don't see any suggestions. It is normal that in one marriage, in this case PKP5, as we call it, we reach out in more than 10, 12, 13 laws. Would you like us to put 15 novels into the national assembly procedure? It wouldn't have worked. Time is not on our client, dear colleagues and colleagues! Covid-19 or SARS-COV 2, the new coronavirus has it as much as you want. We don't have it. Some of you tell us, we hear we're responsible for 707 infections. This is evident to us by those who are like losers in this national council, throwing their masks over their shoulders weeks ago, and those who are not wearing proper masks today, and for the sake of loving peace, no one in this house wants to call proper inspection. Well, we should. Maybe even for the introduction. Colleagues and colleagues, it would be good to read a professional article by Dr. Verica Trstenjak, since you all know her, former Advocate General in the Court of Justice of the European Union. It speaks of fundamental rights at the time of the coronation from the point of view of EU law. Fundamental rights, human rights and so on are not just universal. They're not universal. And fundamental rights in the EU are governed by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. I won't be explaining to you much about 17, 18 pages of this article, which can also be read by a non-university lawyer. There's only one thing I'm going to point out. The fundamental fundamental rights set out in the Charter, at the time of the crown of the crisis – which are they? Protecting health, ladies and gentlemen! And then it lists quite a few judgments by the EU court, which in certain cases placed the right to health first in the event of more than one collision. Here some are disgusted by an amendment to Article 13 and so on. When it comes to infectious diseases, I have a duty to protect my environment from infecting it. These things are also, if you want, in the Penal Code. Another thing like that. Evidence of the privatization of health care. For God's sake, because you probably understand everyone – because some of you have had the right debate, I repeat. What's privatisation? I will not teach, but please check if not elsewhere, then in the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language. If the numbers already say what some people don't want to hear. 2009 we had 53 private doctors, 2019 we had 142 private doctors last year. I ask you to answer the question of how long Nova Slovenija has been or how long Nova Slovenije has been in this 10-year, 11-year period led by the health sector. We advocate a public health system. But once again it is necessary to read the definition of what the public health system means. But an integral part of this public health system is also the private sector. Congratulations to my colleague Muršič from SD, who earlier said that without privacy, it would not work. Today we have 80 percent of medical equipment consumed. Thank God we find people, doctors who get credit! I know people who say I have to live ten years after I retire to return credit for setting up some kind of infirmary, buy some expensive equipment. Yeah, thank God we've got one of those! They will not be able to manage all these investments in the coming years. The treatment is becoming more expensive and the budget will not be able to do so, nor will the health treasury. I am extremely proud, and it may seem to some that Minister Janez Cigler the King has been given the government's authority to defend the Third PKP before the National Assembly for the third time. I am very proud that I am in such a coalition society that Nova Slovenija, including Nova Slovenije, can implement its basic or electoral programme. That is why I am grateful to the coalition partners for being able to implement our economic agenda here, so that we can talk a lot, that is a prerequisite for everything. That we can implement the socio-market model of the economy, which we have been advocating all the time, so that we can implement our family policy, which you all know, I will not repeat. And I am grateful that some of our proposals, proposals from New Slovenia, are accepted within coalition partners. I'm truly grateful. These are the real partners with whom, as we say, we talk a lot and then we come up with final solutions. On September 11th, an interesting date, I proposed to the coalition partners and the government at a press conference to consider extending the so-called tourist vouchers. Why? Because then the infections began to increase rapidly. And I am pleased that the Government has made a decision yesterday and we will today give the government a decision to extend the validity of tourist vouchers to a maximum of one year, which means most until the end of next year. However, I would like to point out something in this place that is not mentioned in the articles of this law. It's the power of social solidarity. First, I will start at European level. When the epidemic struck, we thought, at least we in New Slovenia, that solidarity within the European Union had died, that it was gone. We were skeptical about how the European Union would move forward, realizing that the fathers of Europe, mostly Christian Democrats, had put Europe on the pillar of solidarity. But thank God then the negotiations took place, and the Slovenian government was successful in the negotiations, because we got the funds to create the so-called financial pillow to protect citizens and the economy. We all live from the economy. The minister said, around – although it is difficult to assess it, I repeat, because I trust him – we have maintained about 300,000 jobs through our actions. If it's not worth anything, then I don't know what it's worth. Some people are for the first time in their lives, and probably never again will they get a basic monthly personal income. You're telling us we've forgotten our culturers. For God's sake, we put 16 million more in the balance than we did last year! Culturers are among the first to receive the basic monthly income again. Also self-employed and so on. We have not forgotten about our families, we have not forgotten about our parents, our children, our quarantine and, above all, our employees and our employers. We have not forgotten and will never forget what will, of course, be within our capabilities. We understand your statement that the state had to make a commitment. You'd do the same, dear colleagues and colleagues. There's no other way. Or we turn it all off, it's just a dilemma. And once again, there are no textbooks; if you have them, put them on the table. I would also like to apologize here, but it is not my duty, in fact, to have some debates in the National Assembly, more precisely on the committees, go and go too low. Today, when it protects our lives, we do not know when one of us will be on intensive, when he will be intubated, we do not know, God forbid that any of us should be, and the health staff will be just like that, talking to the doctors — my heart is torn! My heart's breaking. That we fell so low and then this one talks about culture. Maybe we should start with ourselves first. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, when I'm in solidarity. The power of social solidarity and co-responsibilities is incompatible with the laws, including the CAP5 and with the recommendations and guidelines and regulations of any government. Social solidarity has the greatest power. We believe this and believe that this social solidarity will help us to win, to overcome this terrible disaster that has affected us. Not just us, the whole of Europe, the whole world. And let's face it, we recognize this European Union, the institutions of the European Union, the statistics say that our actions so far have been good, I'm not saying that they were ideal, I'm not saying that they could have been better, but they were effective. If we look at the decline in the Slovenian economy compared to the economy of the EU Member States, we see that we are in the better half. We're in the better half. We hope, but we do not know what tomorrow will be like, what will be tomorrow, what will be December, January, February. We hope that this letter V will actually happen, says this rejection, that next year we will be able to record such growth as the relevant institutions are also forecasting us. We will support the amendment of the coalition and we will also support the entire law. This law is called aid to people, this law is called aid to the Slovenian economy. We talked a lot with representative organisations of the Slovenian economy. Of course, some would like more. I believe we will continue to monitor the situation. It's hard to predict whether PKP6 is coming today and 7, and 8, we don't know that. The question is, what will be the financial capacity? But as it is said, this financial cushion, with which we have mitigated the consequences of the epidemic in people and in the economy, this financial pillow, let's say, has worked. It might be good if we once looked at the effects of all the current CAP, for one I know that it works, that is, when we approved the previous CAP, we provided 30 million euros for human resources reinforcements in homes for older citizens and this works. That's proveable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Kangler, Secretary of State, spoke first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! The debate also focused on the fear of the effective work of the police with regard to the law, and in particular on private property and private premises. Here I would like to remind you that article 53 of the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police allows police officers to enter an apartment without an order at five points: if the owner of the apartment allows this, if someone calls for assistance, if this is necessary to prevent suicide, if circumstances are checked that the person in the apartment is dead, in other cases, if this is absolutely necessary to secure the property of people and other things. The provisions of the CAP, paragraph 218 of the Act, also allow the police to enter the apartment without an order. Even two points are added when it is necessary to receive the perpetrator of the offence and when it is necessary to bring someone in at the request of another authority. These are two laws allowing the police to work and enter private housing and personal property. In this law, however, it is a proportionate measure. If someone in their garden has a bony picnic and has 50 people at this picnic, it is a proportionate measure for the police to come and warn these people that they are violating the decree. So it's not an anti-constitutional measure. The police will never, in such cases, violate this law, nor the provisions of Article 218 of the CAP, nor the provisions of the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police, Article 53. These tasks are clear and these tasks are also in line with this law, which is – they will be respected by the police. The amendments prepared in the coalition are also of such a nature that the police will no longer be quarantined, but will be sent, in accordance with the amendments prepared, to the extent that they are accepted in this National Assembly. At the Ministry of the Interior, we are pleased that the coalition is preparing good amendments, as far as police work is concerned, especially police officers at border crossings. In a way, I can argue here that they will also be burdened in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The text was also wanted by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Mr. Orehovec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable President, Honourable Minister and Fellow Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament alike! Previously, Mr. Joseph Horvath said, if anyone has a textbook, how to act at a covid-19, let them put it on the table. Well, I have to say that I have been on the table for seven hours now a textbook on Education and Education in the Republic of Slovenia in a situation related to covid-19, which we wrote during the holidays, and regulates the functioning of the educational system, that is, this school year. Why did I start with that? It was precisely because it was obvious that the Ministry had not prepared how to educate in the time of the covida. On August 19, or August 18, all the principals were given what to do, and they did so all the time. The next thing that is written here is that more than 50 experts from the teaching and medical profession participated in the creation of this textbook. So I'm responding to what was said to be a possible need for a permanent coordination group. We think that the minister has enough authority to name the groups he needs at any time for the needs that happen in education, so that we can create one thing together with different angles of view. This is about all those experts who are proposed and, of course, additional; these are mainly thought-out directors. So this textbook was created by experts who are of scientific expertise and also practitioners. The next thing that led in some way to the creation of the articles that we wrote down at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport led us, of course, to ensure the smooth functioning of educational institutions, then institutions by sport and also science, of course, in order to protect rights and legal benefits for all participants. Therefore, on the basis of the experience that is taking place in the field of education and education, as one of the proposals, we have also made it possible to provide funding for so-called protection equipment and disinfectants for the normal functioning of all these institutions; institutions in the field of education, education, science and everyone else. Of course, this does not mean that those who come to these institutions will not receive these funds and must have them. So the main thing is that somehow these institutions get the means to get this equipment. As regards the labour force or the provision of additional resources, I must say that in these situations, which are slightly different from when they are not special situations, however, the establishments have the possibility to correct these things in some way already. So when it comes to replacing workers who are absent, they can do so at any time either by replacing or by additional employment. Of course, at the Ministry we also think very intensively that we will also call in or have everything ready in the next few months, including the students from the university who are the faculty for the preparation of teachers. This will take place at a time when certain schools or institutions will need to do so. The point is that these students, with mentors of course, will be able to ensure the smooth implementation of the process. Then one part of the workforce, both educational and non-educational, is also on reserve in the so-called centres of school and school activities, which will now be closed in the light of the situation that has probably been closed for at least some time. We have more than a hundred workers there to be reassigned, as we did at the time of the co-vide in springtime. After about sports, it was mentioned that our athletes would not be able to participate in various competitions. We are here in this 102rd section of the 3rd and 4th indents, in a way, allowing the Minister to make it impossible for the funds that will not be spent under this year's annual sports programme to be spent, which is that some activities will not allow the situation to happen, so the money will remain so that the money can be redeployed. Of course, it is then also redistributed to those who had additional costs and if they show an appropriate account for it and if they were not already financed by public funds for these matters. Here, of course, it goes also in the case of possible covid-19 tests, so that they can also finance this part; for example, if they needed additional tests for training or competitions. As far as the other things we have seen during this school year and the previous year are concerned, we have also corrected them within this law – we are correcting them – especially as far as kindergartens are concerned, because we know when it happens that parents must stay home because the child has been quarantined, this law will allow him not to have to pay the kindergarten for when he is at home. And as has been mentioned many times, there has also been an increase in the remuneration for quarantine from 50 percent to 80 percent, as far as much of our population or our children’s parents are concerned. It goes from kindergarten to the fifth grade of elementary school and also to many parents who have children with special needs. Maybe that much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Alaj Kovačič has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. I have a replica of both Secretary of State. First, when Mr Kangler explained; now that I understand correctly, what is already allowed to the police is not actually a crime, but a crime. What you've been predicting is that if someone has a picnic at home, it's my behavior that's currently going under the law for a crime, not a crime. That's why we're defaming the entry of the police. If I'm wrong, please correct me. However, as Mr State Secretary of the Ministry of Education has said, yes, we in the List of Marjana Sharca certainly support that you help clubs, but something completely different is happening in practice. The Ljubljana basketball club actually lost the game because we are the only country with such a rule in Europe. And the financial consequences are enormous for this club. But all Slovenian clubs performing in European competitions get some money by the show itself, and they are also rewarded for their victory. You also mentioned that you will help finance the clubs that run these covid tests. As I have already said, the Slovenian handball team has, I think, publicly stated that it costs more than 100,000 euros a year to test it. We actually know what that means for clubs. I do not know if there is any sponsor in Slovenia who will now give an additional 100,000 euros so that the clubs can be tested. If this is true of what you just said, and you will finance the clubs with such and different tests, we certainly support it in the List of Marjan Sarcas.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u165	Thank you very much. He wanted the word first, then you get the word, Mr. Kangler. Here you go, Mr. Brickler King.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Madam President. Members and Members, colleagues and colleagues from the ministries! Perhaps this intervention will be a little different than it has been so far, but I would like to express my gratitude for this aspect, when we have finally had some debates, positive discussions on this law and the government's attitude towards citizens and citizens, to the economy, to the maintenance of jobs, to the care of the most vulnerable in our society. As I have said many times, the easiest thing to criticize is to commend and support. Man is a creature of symbols, and he also understands and operates through a symbolic rumor. What is our advantage — these government teams? Our advantage is that we are not afraid to go into the field even when it is difficult. When it was the hardest thing for Koroška, we went to Koroška. When everyone in and around the Mežíska valley was shaking because of infections, when everyone with at least a handful of sympathy wanted to help CUDV Black in Koroška, which belongs to my department, the government went to Koroška with a clear message: we are with you and we want to help. And the responses were, I'm not surprised, very positive, in difficult situations. Korošice and Korošci, economists, mayors, representatives of education, all other segments of society understood the symbolic message of our visit to Koroška. And the message is: not only are we with you, but we are with you. This team has expertise, it has motivation, it has the courage and willingness to work to protect and help and mitigate the consequences of this, and at the same time, it is also very important, we show a vision of this country and we think of 5, 10, 20, 30, 50 years ahead. All of this is part of our work cycle, and all of this is being done by our teams at the ministries and the government as a whole. And people understand that. We've met with all the mayors twice. They said, not me, it's unimaginable. I have already visited many homes for the elderly, VDCs, CUDVs and, above all, other institutions that belong to my department. Can you imagine that at one of the offices I visited on my field visits, the distinguished Minister, we have not been visited by any of your predecessors for 20 years. How will you take measures for a better life and better, easier, faster response to these institutions if you do not go there, listen to them, and then transfer your findings and knowledge from the field to your team. How? It's hard. This team isn't only those qualities that I've previously outlined, expertise, motivation, readiness and courage, but it also has compassion. We with people, citizens and citizens, feel compassion and know the situation. We want to help, and we also want to help, and this gives rise to trust. The biggest symbol of this is when mayors and mayors, who are not necessarily part of the political option that forms part of this coalition, express their gratitude, respect and support for the plans and measures we propose and implement. And our visions. The fifth antikron package, PKP5, is also a symbol of all of this. The fifth anti-korona package is a symbol of the message of this government and these teams from the ministries: respected citizens and citizens, we are with you!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State also wanted the floor, Mr Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I want to answer, Your Honor. I was clear enough that the police wouldn't go beyond their authority here. 53. Article 53 of the Law on Police Tasks and Powers states precisely when the police can enter the apartment without an order. Article 518 of the CAP also speaks fully. However, as far as Article 13 of the Act is concerned, I can agree with you that this may be a crime, but it may be a crime. This may be a crime under Article 177 on the transmission of communicable diseases — KZ1. At the scene, the officer will be the one to assess whether it's a crime or a crime. We still have legislation in force today under the Law on Public Order and Peace. If someone in a private apartment or someone in a private garden has too loud music after 10:00 a.m., the neighbor calls to see if there is a disturbance in the environment — or can the police act, come and ring? We are so confident that the police can act if someone breaks the law, and 50 people have a bone picnic in a private garden. I mean, that's perfectly normal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u169	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. As the last in this round, Mr Primož Siter has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, good afternoon! First I would respond to the word, two by the Minister of Labour in the context of your visit to Koroška and the message, the Government is here and we are with you. Look, this thing is self-inflicted. The government's support for people is not something the government could boast of. There's nothing government comes in and says, hey, we're on your side. It's like I, Father, bragging about giving my daughter breakfast this morning. Well, it's self-evident, it's not some space science or some political statement, discovering some kind of political warm water. And you're the father yourself, you'll understand the comparison. Now, here's the thing. Just so we understand the widest picture. Today we are talking about a law that weighs about 420 million, if I am not mistaken. EUR 420 million, which is half of what almost in the same breath wants to buy some weapons for some American missions. Only 408 million within these 780 million will be held as armoured guards – of which Slovenia will have nothing, of which the Slovenian Army per will have nothing. One minute ago on Facebook, or a friend of mine Dennis posted on Facebook one thing that seemed so painfully amusing and I'm going to share it with you. “At this time of panic you invest almost one billion in military equipment that can only be used abroad, it’s kind of like living on 20 square meters, the car doesn’t even start, the roof leaves you, the child has not for three days, and you’re going to buy your neighbor a new iPhone. We are here with these financial priorities, assistance to citizens and citizens on the government's side." Also this claim that, hey, the government is doing well, is quite mirage, because goodness or the quality of this work is not shown anywhere in practice. You might write this down on paper, but that's an EPP. In practice – where, in health care? After 745 infections, new infections a day, is this a success in controlling the epidemic? I know it hurts the most because we were the winners at this point in March, because we were the most successful at the top, mainly because, hand to heart, citizens and citizens, we were acting preventively, following the instructions of the epidemiological profession. Hey, now the picture's completely different, but now we're at the bottom, we're in America, damn it. I know it hurts to be a winner, a loser again, but that's the truth. Where does he know himself? In the economy and in the social sector? The government's doing so well that they sent a letter to the Ministry in the Health and Social Welfare Union, and I'm not going to read the contents, I'm just going to read the address, call for help, we can't do it anymore. Workers in the first front line, those who are 12, 16 hours a day in suits, Swiss who try in red and gray zones at least there to prevent infection, those who are really first-class fighters, in the first front line. The government here hasn't done anything in seven months when it had the time and opportunities and support of obviously people, the situation is worse than before. Call for help, we can't do this anymore! It's over. Game over. No wonder they're leaving! That's the main problem. It is not the main problem in those who work and persist for 16 hours, the problem is that there are already 50 percent of people in social security institutions and now they are leaving. Whether the Government is successful in measures, in implementing some measures to prevent the spread of infection, where there is absolutely no confusion at all. It's complete. On the bus mask, there's no mask, then yes, the shops are open, the restaurants aren't open, the regions are, yes, they're not. Now they ask me from Lithium, which is just in Zasavje near my Bellies: “What should we do now? Litija is in central Slovenia or in Zasavski, Šmarno pri Litija, which is 100 meters away in central Slovenia. What? Mistake! Look, Vlada, you've had six months, you've had time. Not to say with a finger, only to the Minister of Labour, but so, for six months you have had time to arrange, now is the last time to say, a time for a correctional exam, within which you can do something, and amendments to the format that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia can as Ultima ratio – this is the term used by the kingdoms, by the way – to limit the gathering of people in private places. It's true what Secretary Kangler said, but he forgot to say that now there's going to be an additional reason why the police can fly home, and that there's only ten people there. See, correctional exam, esteemed government, in the form of at least one amendment given to you, and this is a solution to the situation at least for those who, if you will excuse the expression, carried your incapacitated ass in the epidemic from the beginning until now, and these are the workers on the first front of the battle line in the homes for the elderly, in the red and gray zones. The epidemic is gone, they no longer receive supplements for their work – the official epidemic is no more – and they no longer receive supplements, and in red and gray zones they are still sewing and working in suits. More and more are infected, including in nursing homes, in all social welfare institutions. There is no reason, let's say that we would not listen to the opposition's proposal, which says that we should give these people what they have to pay, at least in concrete terms, at least 65 percent of the pay they deserve. These are the people who will always solve the epidemic, not the government, not the photo-terms with Orban, not the planes, these people are the ones who will solve the new or third or any wave of the epidemic. Whatever, I mean, or at least one such hygiene minimum is that at least the work of these people is rewarded or recognized as important. Some home, if I'm not mistaken, is also in Koroška. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Replica has Mr. Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A replica because I recognized myself in the debate of my esteemed colleague Siter, because I was the one who praised the government team, and I'm staying. Look, Your Honor, Siter, there's a bit of truth in you, and yet I understand that you're going to use it now, and you're not, and you've missed this opportunity. You talk so much about these 700 million cannons, let's tell the truth once: it's not 780 million in six years, because the Slovenian Army is a serious army and it already has a medium-term plan, but it's an additional 300 million. We split 300 million into six years, and we get 50 million a year, and it's not all about guns, for guns, as you explain. Let's give a little less poison to the Slovenian public. We're also talking, Mr. Siter, about warlocks. Do you allow a Slovenian soldier, a Slovenian soldier, to live in a barracks from the previous century or millennium? And you're so social, come on, please, a tiny, tiny more truth-loving. Yeah, that government is close to people. This is the New Slovenia principle, but we are glad that the entire coalition has taken it. Close to the people. This government will continue with field visits, and I will not now speak extensively about what colleague Jani Prednik, SD, proposed to the government last July. What did he suggest? Field visits! Jani Prednik is a great fighter for Koroška, now that there is talk about Koroška. And the government gave him the answer not to think about it for now, but it was the policy of the then government. Let's leave it at that. So nice, please, let's give a little more truth in this house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Primoz Siter, he has a procedural proposal. Here you go. [[background advertising]] The Member will probably say in his procedural proposal that he will say what the procedure went wrong, so let's give him a chance. [[background advertising]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u174	Okay, thank you very much. Actually, I have two things. One procedural question, on the basis of which this replica has been made, on the other hand, you can remind your colleague Horvath of some information, namely that, despite the fact that the Slovenian Army may be in military barracks that go beyond the date, the numbers I have said are in place – 420 million is difficult this marriage package and 408 million is difficult to obtain 8x8 armoured men in this regard. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u175	Mr. Siter, you've now come into the context of [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u176	Okay, thanks. The second thing, also the infectious clinic is housed in the building, if I'm not mistaken, from the previous century. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u177	Yes, thank you. This was also another substantive explanation. However, as far as the first procedural question is concerned, not the proposal, but Mr Horvath, at least in my opinion, correctly learned the replica because he felt that he had been misunderstood in his debate, so there was no problem here. Now we've exhausted the list of discussers. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. [[Yeah.]] I see it's an interest, so I'll set up a list, sign in. We have three reported discussers. The first gets the word, Mr Robert Pavšič, then Mr Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u178	Thank you. You'll have to do half in a minute, won't you? [[microphone plug-in]] In particular, as far as Minister Vám is concerned, given the whole day of the debate, it is still unclear where the problem is. You and the whole government can parade around Slovenia, but until you explain your actions in this building, in the National Assembly, where we see you more rarely, the problem will remain the same. You can't tell, you can't explain. A few months ago, you pointed your finger at the culprits for the epidemic, and even unbased on those who were illegally eavesdropping on you, following and peering into records. Today, you accuse people and the media for 700 plus the infected per day, 16 billion euros minus, 16,000 million minus over the next three years, and you blame the virus on record debt. The reason is quite simple and incompetence is one other agenda, which is hidden in the background: subjugation of essential systems, privatisation of what is left, and, above all, control of the remaining state assets, and in each of these, you can identify yourself – with human resources exchanges, with the establishment of a demographic fund that is predicted, by pooling agencies and so on. Close to people – I think it's all closer to public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u179	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Dusan Šisko has the floor, but Mr Alexander Reberšek is ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u180	Thank you, my dearest. Look, I've heard a little of this debate, and I haven't noticed any comments about Article 16, which I have to tell you is that for a Slovenian national party, it can't be as it is written that one editors will be able to carry out and have the power to pass fines under the Infectious Diseases Act. Someone else remembers putting these guards in health homes like the brothers, maybe there's another way to find them. First of all, I'm curious, Your Honor, who will even answer my question, do the officers have an exam under the Administrative Procedure Act? The scope of the regulation is regulated by the Law on municipal registrarship. That's the next point. Article 3 of that Act gives a taxive indication of the work areas and tasks of the municipal authorities. The proposed content of the law cannot be placed in Article 3 of the Law on Municipal Government, which is respected. Maybe I'm wrong. In general, we also feel that it is not appropriate to carry out further repression against people in these times by extending the jurisdiction of the congregation. Already in this temple of democracy, it has been given the powers of editors to measure speed. We've evaluated the police's work. It's no wonder where this is going. And I'm asking for a serious explanation. Inspectors, I can tell you, we're in Posavje in red. You won't believe it. There's ten inns within a mile. Today we're 15. By the 12th, according to 12 days, this inspector had come to the same inn five times and had to write fines. Yes, you can laugh! You can laugh when the country gives you a salary. Guests are self-employed, have young girls who are not least mothers of small children and work for hours, but who are also employed in the contract. And not just in the pubs, even in the companies, and I'm wondering why you don't send inspectors there to go look at businesses when workers have signed for 174 or a maximum of 184 hours a month to do their job. The workers work for over 250 hours, and then the inspector says why doesn't he come and report? Why? That tomorrow, when the inspector closes the door, this person will be on the road. Yeah, and they put inspectors in the inn, they go for coffee, and they're all tied up right now and they're writing. I don't know, or it's not a proposal for this fifth marriage, but it's because we have plenty of time. What you've done now to put the regions in red, I don't know why you're not at the time when it was really bad in some. And you've even closed down Slovenia. Some statistical regions at a time when they were not allowed to move from congregations to congregations had perhaps five or six patients. And that's again some whim of someone who remembered something. Not to repeat what Kacin did when he himself said it was a ban, but he's going to Krk, but I'm not going to drop it. And then he used to say that the phone had a son or someone. I don't know, 'cause listening to this crap is really funny in here sometimes. Sometimes I don't know, even today, when they hit there, I thought someone came in, that they lost the key somewhere, that they couldn't get in that temple of democracy. I repeat and ask whether the officers have passed their examination of the Administrative Procedure Act. I'll leave some time for then to discuss the amendments, if there's anything else I need to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Mr Kangler, wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Your Honour, in your debate, you have answered quite a lot yourself. You have found that not only do the directors work after the municipal decrees that have been adopted, but the officials also work under the laws that were passed in this national assembly. The Law on Municipal Editors and the Law on Offences is a fundamental basis for directors to be able to issue fines. You yourself have found that they measure speed; if someone exceeds speed, the congregation’s speed editor issues a fine. Do municipal officials have an administrative procedure test? They do. They have to, because they have to have a criminal organ, they're called a second-degree organ, and they're working. When you, if you are stopped for a misdemeanor, issue a payment order or give a fine, you complain about it, the municipal registrar must have a secondary body, that is, a criminal body. They've got and they're working on it. And there is nothing wrong with giving the law to the municipal authorities, not only burdening the police or health inspectors, but especially all those who care about healthy living in a healthy environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Alexander Reberšek has the floor now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u184	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. I must first respond to another lie from Ambassador LMŠ, Ambassador Robert Pavšić. John Cigler the King has spent over 100 hours in this national assembly recently, including in long night sessions. I believe that MP LMŠ didn't see it because he sleeps sweetly at the time. Let the president of the work committee, Eva Irgle, say that. I'm sure Janez Cigler is the King's record player after work at the National Assembly, and don't let the other ministers hold that against me. Minister Janez is indeed a king. As a carrier, however, he has done a great deal of work, which not only touches his department, but also covers a number of ministries of the current government. I am extremely grateful to you, Your Honor, for that. However, I believe that other citizens are grateful to you. What I still believe is that as a minister, you can't get better confirmation that you're doing well than the opposition is making noise in this national council. This shows your good work and the culture of the constitutional bow. I believe that the content of the PKP5 is stronger than any of the procedural complications we have received at the beginning of the meeting. But it is in the fact that the opposition wants to redirect attention and attacks to evaluate the work of our minister. The fact is, Slovenia is in a situation that none of us have ever experienced before. And we can only hope that the situation in this country will pass as quickly as possible, that the situation in this country will be normalized as possible, that there will be no need to take these PKP measures, that people will work, survive and that life will go on as normal. That's what we all want. Some of the measures have been carried over from previous legal packages of the CAP because they have produced good results. Two of these are temporary waiting for work and partial subsidisation of part-time work, which the Government will be able to extend to 30 June 2021 as necessary under this Act. Now is really the time to bring together everything that Slovenia has in the field of health. People need to be given timely access to health services when they need them, regardless of who the provider is, since in the end it is only considered that we are being examined, greeted, and that we receive medicines at the right time. An important measure in the field of health is that, for 2020 and 2021, the Ministry of Health will implement a national call for improved accessibility to health services. All healthcare providers authorised to carry out activities or registered in the register of private health professionals will be allowed to apply for the invitation to tender. The funds will be provided from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia from supplementary health insurance. I had previously received readings from a member of the Left who tells us that this measure, which is intended to reduce waiting lines, will at least use all possible concepts in Slovenia for necessary interventions in order to privatise public health. This is by no means true, and we cannot agree with this in New Slovenia. No one is privatizing our health system more than they have now privatized themselves with these long waiting species. It's a wild privatisation. People are forced to pay for services from their own pocket. And if the health system is as good as Mr Miha Kordish's claim, I ask him when the next time I need a medical service, if he will lend me a card. I'll probably get to his medical card faster. It's not public health, it's private health, so I'm asking all skeptics whether they want to preserve privatized health care. This is the case now that, despite the compulsory insurance paid, we are paying again for each intervention to arrive at a reasonable time. Is it not better for us to take advantage of all possible capacities in this given situation and reduce waiting types, including health workers who are not part of a public health network? The point is, indeed, that the patient should be treated as soon as possible and that he does not have to pay for this service. Such a way of dealing with waiting lines in New Slovenia has been proposed a long time ago and we are pleased that our coalition partners have recognized this and the urgency of this action and supported its inclusion in the CAP5. I would also point out self-employed people who will lose more than 20 per cent of their income this year and will be able to apply for a monthly basic allowance of €100 for the month of October, November and December. What I am convinced today is that whatever we would do in the coalition, in the government, would always find something and always oppose the opposition. It's a simple matter. I believe you can count to 46, assemble and rule. Above all, stop talking and attack us, us, doctors, and everyone in this country who is working hard in this situation. Form a government and change the world. Miha Kordish is to be the Minister of Defense or the Minister of Health and Violeta is to be the Minister of Culture, and I believe you will be dipping honey and milk. I believe it is much easier to speak from the opposition than to rule. In the end, it's just an appeal. I believe a lot of questions are open to many. I like them, too. But what we have to do is to wear masks in closed spaces, not to shake hands, not to disinfect our hands, not to touch our faces, to take into account a safe distance. What we want is to stay healthy and safe. So let's take care of the resistance and strengthen the immune system. Among other things, it is a safe recreation in nature, healthy diet, a lot of movement and good sleep. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u186	Thank you. The strategy for the privatization of health care has been going on with us for years, but under the third government of Janez Janša it is still increasing in intensity. This form says as follows: let us underfinance, maintain public health systems, feed private health systems simultaneously, and this public health system will sooner or later collapse. This information will then be turned into propaganda against people, czech, see how public health works poorly, and with this sentiment it will completely spread everything that is solidarity in Slovenian public health. This is a form that we have already seen abroad, a form that is already at work with us and is also described in the PKP5.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u187	Thank you very much. There are no more reported debaters. I'm asking if anyone else would like to discuss this article? [[Yes]] Mrs. Zabrett, you have a few more seconds to discuss this. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. I would only respond to Mr Rebersk because he actually insults the Members and Mr Pavšić. I'm a member of this committee, and I haven't slept. Were you on this committee or did you sleep at home?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u189	Thank you very much. If There Is No More Desire to Discuss [[…]] You have a replica of Mr. Reberšek. Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u190	I have to respond to those words here. I'm not a member of this committee. That's why I wasn't here. But it is insulting that your Member says that our Minister Janez Brickler is the King at least in the National Assembly or that he is not present here. It's a deception to the public. You know, once you put this out of the bottle, it's hard to get it back into the bottle. And when a lie crosses half the world, the truth only wears shoes. I ask you to convey this to Mr Pavšić and do not deceive the Slovenian public. What we want is to tell the truth here, not spread lies.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u191	Thank you. If we are done now, there is no longer a desire to discuss this amendment, then I am closing the debate. And I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups and the amendment of SDS, SD, NSI and Desus and the amendment of this amendment. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups and the amendment of SDS, SD, NSI and Desus and the amendment of the amendment. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendment of the SDS, SD, NSI and Desus parliamentary groups and the amendment of the amendment. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 13 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups and the amendment of SDS and NSI and two amendments to this amendment. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I also conclude this debate. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups and the amendment of SDS, SD, NSI and Desus. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB groups. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the MPs LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB. I also conclude the debate here. I am putting to the debate Article 19 and the amendment of the leftist groups and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 33 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus parliamentary groups. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 34, as well as the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? Mr. Starovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u192	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. This amendment was drafted in the SAB, signed by the LMSH and the SD, on Article 34. Our proposal for the resolution of waiting types is that it is cascading to first see where the available capacities, who can offer them in the public system, are public institutions. And in the next step, concessionaires, because all of this is a public system. And only in the third step, if they are not capable of doing so, I mean if they do not have the capacity to do so to the economic organisations that are on the market. We need to know, one is the public system, the public health system is the economy. Because here today we have heard words that this is not an economy, that the economy is one, and this is not. It is also an economy, also paying for services, it also has its services, we just need to know that we have not paid in the public health system all the services that are needed, but that the public health insurance companies have paid only the planned scope of services, that is to say a certain extent and no more. From the Health Committee, which we also had the opportunity to visit UKC Maribor, they told us that some things stop working in September, some services because they no longer pay them. If there's no money, they can't work. Look, we simply didn't pay for the public health system, despite being able to do services and reduce waiting types. Otherwise, in 2018, we added some 20 million inwards from the state budget to help make more services possible to shorten. But 20 million today — I don't know — is not a special sum, but we did. But as a health care company, we don't put enough money in public health. We give below 8 percent of the social gross product. The European countries, the OECD, are giving quite a percentage more to avoid talking about those where private health is the dominant. And that's where health is more than a percentage, and they have worse results. In the main, in this covid-19 crisis, it turns out that the public system is the right system, and that is why Europe has also committed itself to public systems, health systems, additional money. Don't forget that. Because there is general knowledge, the world survey has shown where robust public health systems are, they are more effective, and the health status of the population is better according to the indicators. So, let's say solidarity, as my colleague Horvath has already said, solidarity public health is one that is strong and that holds and cares for health because it is intended as such for human health. This system, public health, must be robust. He can't just slow down and stop doing or anything. But if we look at private health care, one way is to create profitable work, normal as any economic organisation. Article 1 of the Act on Economic Companies makes it clear and clear that the purpose of companies is a profitable activity and profit. In Article 1, clearly, this is it and it is on the market. Now we're supposed to be doing public money. Something doesn't go together if those who decided to do it privately went to get money and work. But they can also decide to move their activities to Italy tomorrow, let's say, because there will be a better profit to work. It's a commuter. Just as my colleague threatened to move his activities to Italy. He can move anywhere. Public health needs to be here. And concessionaires are also here, mainly at the primary level, to cover the territory, because it is necessary to cover territorially at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels. So we have an organised and robust system that can only be organised in such a way that it is planned and that it is non-market-funded, and otherwise it is also an economic activity that has its own product and is working. We are committed to strengthening this public health system, not weakening it. That is why we say, in this article, that these public health facilities should first be occupied both by concessionaires and then by those market operators who work for profit. That is the only way to do so, because this public health care has been set up, funded and maintained and maintained and has proved to be good. Let us acknowledge that, despite the fact that it is nourished, this crisis has worked well and has produced its result. In this article, we also propose criteria for how to share for a time, for a limited time and that it is equal. Because fear is in this, look, purely a charm. And I know something about this health care, because I was there for one project, and I understand. You, as a private institution, will go to the most profitable area. Normally, as an economic organization that fits in to profit, you will go where the greatest return is and try to create and where the least risk is. You will never find private matters, organizations of these health care organizations, to deal in a risky area, because they must then have a transfusion station, the one, the third, the fourth. But if we do this freely and do not require some criteria that compare things, these will be harder things and less profitable to the public health sector, but those who are less risky, simpler and more profitable will go private. But that's normal, I mean. I'm not saying that they're your guts or anything, not that they're cuddly or anything! [[…]] They are capable, feel capable enough to go to the market alone and succeed in the market. And so it is, as other private parties go to the market: either traders, or any producers, or concrete makers, or any one. Also, there's no difference! But if we want to strengthen the public system and have it in our common good, we need to give it the place that goes to it and support it. So I hope, in the end, I just want to add this to find some consensus, to understand that we want good. Not now that the opposition, which represents what I know, according to some polls, even most of the population, is worthless and wants nothing but evil. That's not true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 35 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus parliamentary groups. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 39 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups and the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus. Nobody wants to debate, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 41 and the amendment of the MPs LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB. We're closing up. [[…]] I am putting to the debate Article 42 and the amendment of the MPs LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB. There's no debate here either. I am putting to the debate Article 53 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 54 and the two amendments of the MPs LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 55 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups and the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 62 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus parliamentary groups. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 71 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB groups. There's no debate here either. I am putting to the debate Article 72 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus parliamentary groups. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 74 and the amendment of the MPs LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB. We're closing. I am putting to the debate Article 81 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus parliamentary groups. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 83 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus parliamentary groups. I'm concluding. I am putting to the debate Article 84a and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus parliamentary groups. We're closing. Article 85 and Article 88: As the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB groups to Article 85 to the first amendment of the same proposal to Article 88, we will discuss all the amendments to these articles together. Thus, I am putting to the debate paragraphs 85 and 88 and the three amendments of the MPs LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB and the two amendments of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] No, we're closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 90 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups and the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 92 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus parliamentary groups. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 97 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus parliamentary groups. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 98 and the amendment of the MPs LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 123 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus parliamentary groups. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 127 and the two amendments of the Members' groups LMŠ, SD, Left and Sab. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 129a and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups and the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus. I'm closing the debate. I am putting two amendments to the debate for the new 129.b articles, namely the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB MPs. It's not a big deal. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the MPs LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB for a new 129.c. I'm closing the debate. For the new 129th item, I shall put to the debate the amendments of the MPs LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB. I'm closing the debate. With that, we've exhausted the amendments. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, i.e. 15 minutes after the end of item 2 of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal of a candidate for the Ministry of Agriculture, Agriculture and Food. On the basis of Article 112(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 229 and 234 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, President Janez Ivan Janša proposed that Dr Jožeta Podgorška be appointed Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate presented himself at a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food on 12 October and answered the question of the members and members of the Committee. You have received the report and the opinion of the Committee. It follows that the presentation of the proposed candidate was appropriate. The report of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food will now be presented by the chairman of the Committee, Mr Edvard Paulič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u194	Dear President, representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague! The candidate for Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jože Podgoršek, is in accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 230, first and second paragraphs, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 12. Ten. 2020 presented and answered their questions to the members and members of the Committee. At the beginning of the opening presentation, the candidate presented the current section of the state of agriculture, forestry and nutrition, as well as the Ministry's plans or priorities. He stressed, among other things, that he was committed to reforming the functioning of the cooperative system and, consequently, the Cooperative Act. Another important priority is the adoption of a legal basis for the prevention of African swine fever and will also seek to improve agricultural policy. He explained that they had already begun a public debate at the Ministry last March on the amendment of land law. So the Law on Agricultural Lands, the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests and the Law on Heritage stressed that they would also continue to harmonise the Agricultural Law, both for the preparation of the new programming period and for other alignments with the European acquis. The Minister's candidate explicitly announced the amendment of the livestock law, and a draft Animal Protection Act will be prepared within one month. In the area of forestry, it wants to increase the efficiency of the public service of the Institute for Forests and more active forest management, and will also give special attention to the company Slovenian National Forests. Finally, the candidate stressed that, at this moment, the Ministry's very important task is to reform the common agricultural policy and that a strategic plan should be drawn up by the end of the year. There was a discussion of the members and members of the committee in which they highlighted some of the important issues in the Ministry's work area and further raised questions for the Minister's candidate, including in the areas of new common agricultural policy and possible changes in the field of subsidisation, forest management, wood-processing centres and the competitiveness of the forest and forestry chain, in the area of farm pensions, in the field of operation of the Agricultural Land Fund and the cooperative system. The discussion continued on a number of other topics, including food safety in Slovenia, the issue of the production and processing of cannabis for medical purposes and the promotion of organic food in Slovenia. Finally, the debaters also touched on the preparation of an action plan for adaptation to climate change. The Minister's candidate responded extensively and substantively to the debates of the Members and answered the questions raised with substantive views as well as with proposals for action in the individual areas exposed, and the candidate also presented his future activities at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food in an integrated manner. After the presentation had been concluded, the Committee, without a vote, adopted the opinion that the presentation of the candidate was appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u195	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respectable members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, all together a nice greeting! In the SDS Group, we will support the candidate for Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožeta Podgorška. In our opinion, Dr Podgoršek has such personal, educational, professional, professional and political experience and could be a minister in any government, regardless of its ideology. Mr Podgoršek lived and lives on a farm. He was first a graduate agricultural engineer, then a master of agriculture, and now he's a doctor of agriculture. Throughout his life he worked in agriculture, in a farm company, he was among the mains at the GRM Agricultural School in Nové Mesto, he was a food keeper, he was a secretary of state and it is somehow logical to continue his journey as Minister of Agriculture. Otherwise, in the SDS, we regret that for at least the last three months, we have been talking about agriculture because of wrong moves and because of the wrong issues or we have been talking more about the names and surnames of key people in this ministry, not the key problems. Because there are a lot of problems. There are many problems that Mr Podgoršek has been trying to solve for a long time, and we believe that he will also be able to solve them successfully as a minister, because he knows them very well in the light of his past. We are also pleased that he has participated very successfully in anti-korona packages 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 and for agriculture, these packages have brought a number of very important things that he is not aware of very often, but farmers in practice know that in anti-korona packages they – including with the help of the Secretary of State or hopefully the future Minister of Agriculture – have not forgotten. He also announced certain solutions for both the Slovenian state forests, agricultural land, self-sustainment and cooperatives. We hope that those laws that have been in drawers for too long will finally see the light of the world. The first good indication that the future minister, we believe that he will work successfully and in concrete terms, was already seen at yesterday's government meeting when one of the very important measures in the field of cattle and aid was taken by all those who are engaged in beef farming in Slovenia. In short, we expect legislative proposals, and in particular we expect what we believe is most important in the field of agriculture – the review of all regulations and regulations. In short, we hope that the future minister will also participate successfully and actively in the preparation of the de-de-barcation programme, which we have already pointed out in the SDS Group, because not only in other areas, but also in agriculture, we expect and, above all, we urgently need de-birocratic measures. In short, Dr Podgoršku's support is support for Slovenian farmers and Slovenian agriculture, which needs the support of a man who knows agriculture in his own skin through the educational system and through knowledge of agricultural policy. That's why we want Dr. Podgorica's work to be very successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u197	Thank you. The positions of the LMŠ Group will be presented by Jerco Korče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u198	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Allow me because I believe that the candidate for a minister is also following us to make a few words out of this town to him, especially to him, on behalf of the LMŠ Group. Dear Dr. Podgoršek! Let us introductoryly tell you that we will not devote our votes today in the List of Marjan Šarcs. As Minister, you're entering a government that we don't support. Moreover, we believe that you are putting your name, your past work and your past professional path into the hands of a team that proves from day to day that it is not able to lead a country and is more or less concerned with meeting its own needs rather than directing the course of our country's development. Indeed, it is true that it is only after a certain period of time that an individual and his work can be evaluated. We do not claim that you do not practice good faith in the path of the ministry, that you can change things, and that we allow the possibility of you to do your job with a firm mind, but allow me to look only at a short - term near future. Actually, let me just take a look at it for an hour or two in the future. You'll have an oath here today. As Minister, I quote: “I swear that I will respect constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.” Dear Dr. Podgoršek! Those words should bring you pride, weight, and an incredible sense of responsibility. You may be, but you are submitting yourself to a government that has, unfortunately, proved repeatedly how complex and unrememberable these words are for her. Nevertheless, we wish you great happiness in your further work.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The views of the SD Group will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u200	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Being a minister of agriculture and good and quality to manage your department is all as irrelevant and easy to work as it is. Social Democrats know that agriculture and agricultural policy are one of the most important policies not only with us but also with Europe and the world. Agriculture is once again becoming an important subject and area of our lives, and in the next few years it certainly will gain even more on its importance. Today, in this reference to Parliament, we have confirmed and appointed the Minister of Agriculture for the third time. Unfortunately, this has occurred because of political developments on the national and client floor. Despite all of this and the interim political developments, the Social Democrats welcome the candidate's proposal for a new minister of the selected department. Jože Podgoršek has a lot of expertise in agriculture. After all, it is not a new face that does not know the problems and challenges of agriculture in Slovenia and Europe. If we look at the jobs and tasks that the minister candidate has already performed, from leading various research groups, establishing research development centres, carrying out the work of the food supply chain guardian and now as the secretary of state at the agricultural ministry, it can be clear to us that the candidate is undoubtedly an expert and an expert in the field. At the so-called hearing of the candidate on the working body, the Social Democrats raised a number of questions and raised various topics that we think are important and appealing. From Mr Podgorška's replies and discussions, it is possible to understand that he has a vision of how to drive Slovenian politics and Slovenia and the awareness that agriculture and agricultural policy are still important. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have recognised Mr Jožet Podgoršk's candidate as a suitable candidate who will be able to deal with the problems and problems of Slovenian agriculture, and at this point we will not oppose him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The views of the Group of the Parties of the modern centre will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u202	Dear President, the distinguished candidate for Minister, who is not currently in the Chamber, is an esteemed assembly! At today's meeting of the National Assembly, we will vote on the candidate for Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Agriculture policies form the basis of food security, along with forestry and fisheries, as well as the basis of rural economic security. Sadly, though, we are not aware of the impact that our daily routine has on us. Safe, quality and locally produced food, self-sustainment, animal welfare and forests are areas where, in particular, the increasing impact of climate change and the consequent impact on our health require increasing attention and appropriate action. In the presentation, the candidate for minister presented the current situation in the field of Slovenian agriculture, forestry, fisheries, fisheries. He also highlighted the food processing sector and presented the implementation of the measures of the common agricultural policy. As a farmer, the guardian of the food supply chain and the current Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, he was well aware of the current situation and challenges in this area, as was evident from his presentation to the Committee on Agriculture. The identified key priority themes, such as the preparation of legal bases for improvement of land, agricultural legislation, the renewal of animal protection areas and the arrangements for the production and processing of hemp, are correct. In particular, the SMC welcomes the announced comprehensive revision of the Animal Protection Act, which is to be introduced into the legislative process in the first half of next year. We believe that we cannot satisfy ourselves simply with the new definition of animals as sentient beings. The whole area of animal protection needs to be renovated and adapted to the current state in order to effectively ensure the welfare of all animals. In particular, we welcome the legal arrangements for the production and processing of hemp. The regulation of the production and use of hemp for medical and industrial purposes is one of the most important software sources of the SMC. At our initiative, however, the regulation of this area has become a commitment of the current coalition. Dr. Jože Podgoršek, the area of agriculture is well known. He appreciates farm work and proudly says he's a farmer himself. Even though the Ministry's leadership is taking over in an extremely difficult time marked by the new coronavirus, we are confident in the SMC that the Ministry will lead successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The positions of the Left Group will be presented by Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u204	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! We know Mr Podgorška as secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and we are not surprised by his appointment and his competences are not at all questionable. As far as politicians are concerned, Jože Podgoršek brings nothing new. The entire mandate of Aleksandra Pivec under Sarčeva and under the Janšev government was her State Secretary and co-founder of agricultural policy at that time. Unfortunately, we have not seen much policy-making in this mandate of Mrs Pivec. All we saw in the National Assembly was the Resolution on the National Programme on Strategic Directions for the Development of Slovenian Agriculture and Food Our Food, Rural and Natural Resources since 2021, which continues to leave our farmers to the free market and the dictatorship of Brussels's Eurobicrocracy. We can only hope that Jože Podgoršek, as agricultural minister, will not consistently realize the emptiness of the agricultural policy that this resolution has outlined for the future and will in fact continue the work of its predecessors, from which it differs mainly in something. He's not having an affair. Which is unusual for this government he's going to be sitting in. For us in Levica there is no problem of Jože Podgoršek as agricultural minister, the problem is Jože Podgoršek as minister in the government of Janez Janša, in a government that has celebrated itself as one of the most repressive and corrupt governments in the history of Slovenia, which demolishes the rule of law, carries out personnel cleansings through which he submits to the police, the judiciary and the supervisory institutions; tries to discipline the media, silence civil society, privatize health and predicts an attack on labour rights. Under the cover of the fight against the epidemic, this government is kidnapping the country and irreversibly transforming it into a dictatorship of the measure and taste of Janez Janša and his friend Viktor Orban. It is no wonder, therefore, that this government has set itself as one of its priorities in the adoption of a law on 780 million heavy arms purchases, which is nothing more than a scenario for the rerun of the Patria affair in insurmountable dimensions. And this same government, which, at the time of the epidemic and at the time of the record number of infections with the new coronavirus, is hard to find every euro for an infection clinic, which, after seven months, really should have been set if we had normal and healthy priorities. Let's not forget, the government takes decisions by vote, and it's not only John Janša's fault, it's all the ministers who support such policies, regardless of the portfolio they run. Candidate Jože Podgoršek probably has no choice at this time or even believes that he can do good for Slovenia within such a group. As Secretary of State, he quietly supported this policy. With his candidacy for a minister in this government, he shows not only that he is silently supporting them, but that he is also willing to stand in the forefront of these policies and that he is ready to lay down his name and give his face to this undemocratic government and its politicians. In Levika we will vote against the confirmation of Jože Podgorška as agricultural minister. Not so much because it means the continuity of decades of the country's long failed agricultural policies, but because this government must fall as soon as possible. It's not like it's still human resources. It must fall as soon as possible if we want to prevent the irreversible slip into the fascist dictatorship that we can see in Hungary, Poland, Serbia and elsewhere in Europe. In a dictatorship in which labour rights, natural resources and a healthy living environment will be left to plunder national and transnational capital, while the regime will be maintained by fostering intolerance among people on the basis of political, national, religious, racial, sexual and other affiliations. All of it. while the ruling politicians will be rich in corruption. The vote for the Janša ministers is the vote for the government of Janez Janša and there is no vote for her in the Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Christian Democrats will be presented by Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u206	Thank you very much. A respected choir! Respectable candidate for Minister Joža Podgoršek! The Slovenian countryside faces major challenges, with on average two farms closing down on average. This certainly is not encouraging information. Unfortunately, the agricultural sector is shrinking significantly, which is particularly felt by consumers, as there is a lack of quality domestic healthy food. European agricultural policy is changing and it is expected that the agricultural policy in Slovenia will change as a result. In Novi Slovenija we hope that Slovenia will remain a net recipient with the following financial perspective 2021-2027 and will continue to allow for farmed rural and farm life on hill farms with its programmes. In Slovenian agriculture, it is necessary to stop the negative trends in the ageing of the rural population and to direct all powers, knowledge and laws towards rejuvenating the age structure of farmers. In Novi Slovenije, we have highlighted several times the aspect of the failure to grant scholarships for the farmer's profession. Due to the uncompetitive conditions faced by young farmers compared to peers in other professions, this is completely uninteresting. Improving the situation and greater interest in agricultural activities is possible only if we provide young people who are interested in taking over the farm and thus agricultural activities so that they can support their families and also have some free time for the family. The existence of family farms is extremely important for the preservation of rural settlements and the production of healthy food. Due to the increasing number of infections with the new coronavirus, food safety remains a major challenge high among the priorities of Slovenia and also future Minister Podgorska. The candidate Dr Jože Podgoršek, at the hearing for the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, by his presentation and answers to the questions raised by the Members, showed a great deal of knowledge and understanding about the situation in Slovenian agriculture and convinced us that he is worthy of our trust. Members of New Slovenia will be supported by the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u207	Mr Bratušek will introduce Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u208	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Respectable candidate for Minister of Agriculture, Economy and Food Dr Jože Podgoršek! In the SAB Group you are considered a person suitable for the management of the agricultural resource. You're not one of those who like to philosophy, but with your expertise you're moving things for the better, and you've proven this several times in the past, especially as the first known guardian of the food supply chain relations. Many could tell us what we're saying when we're an opposition party. But here's the important difference. In the SAB we are constructive and support good proposals for people and the country. And that's Dr. Jože Podgoršek, so we're not going to embarrass the candidates and treat them inappropriately. Unlike Members of the SDS, we will always be on the side of a worthy and decent one. Let me remind you – when the candidate for cohesion, our Minister, Angelika Mlinar, was given a lot of inappropriate words and readings, particularly by SDS Members, as well as the Slovenian National Party and the Left. You humiliated her, and you've made it clear that there's not enough Slovenian as a leprechaun. These statements have been resented by many Korean Slovenians, and today you may be ashamed. Dear Mr Podgoršek, we do things differently in the SAB. We have also worked well with you in the previous government, so we were pleased to hear that you have been proposed as a new agricultural minister. We want you to solve matters in the interests of Slovenian farmers, forestry and food activities in the role of Minister with more powers than you have had so far. In view of your presentation, we expect you to actively pursue the promotion of self-sustainment, sustainable and ecological agriculture, small farmers and locally produced food. From a development perspective, it is very important that you also defend European funds. And if I may add, as an MP from Crassus, I would like the agriculture ministry to pay more attention to the formation of the Lipicans. Lipica is not Crassus, Lipica is Slovenia and the world. It's over. Dr. Podgoršek is highly skilled in agriculture, perhaps lacking only a few political experiences. We will not oppose his appointment to the SAB Group because we respect him as an agronomist. We hope that, as Minister, he will be able to achieve his objectives and follow the needs of the Slovenian farmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u210	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is one of the main pillars that connects different stakeholders. Therefore, it is important that the Minister actively engages in the field, but must also be able to act as a mediator. As fundamental virtues, of course, obedience to people and subjection to professional decision-making are. In the Desus Group we are extremely pleased that Dr Jožeta Podgorška is proposed as Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. During this turbulent time, it is extremely important that the Ministry's work takes place as normal and as smooth as possible. As the current Secretary of State, Dr Jože Podgoršek is aware of all the projects currently under way. Thus, the new minister, with a team he already knows, will be able, without a more difficult transition period, to take over the work left to him. We can't doubt Dr. Podgorica's competences. Since it comes from a traditional peasant family, it is aware of the importance of agriculture in our country. The quality of his work is reflected in his experience, which he over the years upgraded as a dean of the GRM Novo Mesto Rural Management School and the guardian of the food supply chain relations. In the Desus Group, we believe that Dr Podgoršek is more than a suitable candidate for the Minister of Agriculture, so we will also support him. Mr Podgoršek, I wish you as much labour as possible and all the good on your way as the new Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u211	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The debate of Members is next. Before that, Mr Dusan Sisko has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u212	Chairman, thank you very much. Look, we weren't going to come forward to this debate, but I'm going to make you a procedural proposal, and please, Mr Marko Bandelli, who said in his position that the Slovenian national parties were spitting at Angelika Mlinar, which is not true. Maybe it was somewhere, but those who wrote this position to him, if he had forgotten, Dusan Shisko didn't vote at the time and was elected minister. But I had pressure two days earlier and then a week later. Thank you. And please apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u213	Thank you very much. There is no provision under the Rules of Procedure that I may request or propose to apologize to any of the Members. That's how I suggest you two deal with each other. But I believe he heard you, Mr. Shisko. We are now continuing the debate. First of all, he gets the word, Mr. Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Madam President. Although the List of Marjan Šarc will not support Dr Jožet Podgorška for the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food today, I must say that, because we expect, of course, this State Council will support that I expect much from the Minister. Much in particular because in the past the expected objectives of various areas have not been achieved, which we have also expected, and which have also been outlined by past governments. Many things have not been accomplished. Why? Because Slovenia is a specific country, a beautiful country and without an agricultural economy, I can't imagine the future of this country. First of all, I must mention this, the common agricultural policy for the period 2021-2027 within the framework of the European Commission. We know what the goals are. In particular, the three: promoting food security, strengthening environmental care and climate action and strengthening rural areas. These are three key objectives, but, of course, we still have a fragmented number of objectives within this, which I will not now set wide. On the other hand, I must point out that, at the time of the Government of Marjana Sarca, the National Assembly adopted a resolution on strategic guidelines for the development of Slovenian agriculture and food, entitled Our Food, Rural and Natural Resources since 2021. This address itself has much to say about this content, which, of course, provides the basis for the future preparation of national measures. The production of safe and quality food with a view to ensuring food security and increasing the competitiveness of agriculture is highlighted and a coherent and socially sustainable rural development is also sought. Here, of course, it must be stressed that both of the documents before us are, of course, adopted in Slovenia, and the common agricultural policy is ahead of us, with which we must align. Here I would like to stress the following: that the future minister is facing a responsible task, because Slovenia is very specific. Slovenia's agricultural economies are one of the smallest in the European family, measuring a good 6 hectares, and the European Union averages a good 16 hectares, and these are large deviations. We ourselves know that, as such, we are very uncompetitive to compete in some mass production in agriculture. On the other hand, I would like to point out that, on the other hand, there can also be an advantage, which, of course, we need to take advantage of. Here I would like to stress the joint participation of agriculture and tourism; this is said by the two ministries – the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and, on the other hand, the Ministry of Economy, Development and Technology. We know that tourism has developed very well in Slovenia in recent times, and here we see that synergy as an opportunity to make a good connection here. Here I expect from the future minister that this matter, this area, can be well coordinated and managed and that cooperation between the two ministries will be better than it has been before. As the next objective that I have highlighted several times in this National Assembly and in the Committees is the forest chain action plan set by the Government in 2012 which expired this year in June. Here, however, I expect as one of the priorities of this ministry or minister that he will give us a concrete analysis of this action plan this year. What of these objectives, the measures set out in this Action Plan, have been achieved? What has not been achieved, and why has it not been achieved? There's a lot of content back here. We know that the aim of this action plan was to achieve a higher added value and to return the 25,000 jobs lost by the timber processing industry in the last 30 years, or more specifically, in the 20s: in the 1990s and in the first decade of this millennium. In the last decade, the situation has been virtually unchanged, as no targets were achieved during the action plan. Here we are, the List of Marjana Sharca, and I am personally very interested in why these goals have not been achieved. We can't just settle for SIDG, the forest master. That's not enough. Although there are good results, profits, there is only a fraction of what Slovenia can achieve if it is possible to re-establish a good wood processing industry, which, forgive me, I have to return in the time of Yugoslavia, was one of the good industries in Slovenia and also in Yugoslavia. With this we do not know how to manage and that is the point and again we are there that you have to step together here, because the forest chain action plan was a joint task both of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism. This task has not been carried out and this is what I expect this matter to be referred to this year in this National Assembly and that new tasks are highlighted so that this matter can finally be achieved. I cannot imagine that in Slovenia, as the second richest country in Europe, we do not know how to use wood raw materials, quality wood raw materials, to export this raw material and give it to Austria, which then takes advantage of its woodworking activity, achieves good results and Slovenia loses it. This is the note I am giving to the future minister as a specific task to fulfil, and we will also monitor it in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word to prepare himself for Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Respectable candidate for Minister of Agriculture, Dr. Jože Podgoršek! You know, we have to change this rule of procedure, too. It is not right that we are now addressing the candidate and we do not see him here and we cannot communicate with him with our eyes. A little weird, but still. The next candidate will probably be in the government line or anywhere. At first I went to see, although I had known Dr. Podgorsk for some time, I had known him for some years, and I was pleased to find that he came from a traditional peasant family and that he was proud to say that he was a farmer. Even in my congregation, where I come from, I know a doctor of science who is a farmer. Today, agriculture is an extremely demanding sector that actually requires extremely educated people, yes, including the highest academic title. This is certainly my first green hook for a candidate gentleman, because it is not a theoretical one, but it is a practice that is also inspired by theoretical knowledge. Agriculture isn't like that. In the rich Slovenian language we also have one beautiful word, which we do not use, which I regret. It's called agriculture. Agriculture – it is true, it is also a culture. It's not just agriculture, it's not just livestock, it's not just agriculture, it's culture. Among the tasks you have already given to the candidate, I would recommend to him that he strive to popularise the profession of farmers, how to impress young people for this mission. This is not such a simple profession — because I come from farmers myself — is a mission. As long as we have farmers, we will also have our green Slovenia, our landscape well arranged. If they're not there, we'll have to pay for it. But then this will no longer be some original image of green Slovenia. I believe that Mr candidate is aware of the current priorities of the European Union in the field of agriculture or more precisely of the main objectives or the programme presented by the German Presidency. The German Presidency presented its work programme and its priorities in agriculture and fisheries. The main topics to be addressed by the Council over the next six months are the reform of the common agricultural policy, the strategy from villas to forks, animal welfare, food labelling, the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and the fishing opportunities for 2021. I trust the German program. He's very ambitious. I also trust him because he is defended or defended by the German Federal Minister for Food and Agriculture, Mrs Julia Klöckner of the CDU, whom I also personally know. I believe that Mr candidate will have and will have a special sense of the farmers who are in trouble because of the covida-19 pandemic and from increasing pressure. I am therefore also pleased that in the PKP5, as discussed at the previous point, we have also given special attention to farmers. We have never forgotten them in our coalition, and we will never forget them. Ensuring food security for European citizens during the crisis is certainly a priority for the Member States of the European Union. Measures to support food producers have been identified. Let me just list three: firstly, direct support to farmers and rural areas, secondly, flexibility under the common agricultural policy and thirdly, exceptional market measures. I know that Dr Jože Podgoršek is familiar with the New Slovenia agricultural programme and that this programme is close to him. And here's my next green hook and an additional argument for our support for him. We will not only support him today when we place him as Minister of Agriculture. We will support him in all his efforts, which we have clearly articulated in the coalition treaty. We in New Slovenia wish to give more attention to family farms than ever before. For the Slovenian situation, for the Slovenian farm volume, the family farm is practically the only future. The only future. In this context, I wish him not to forget that he will be close to farmers, and we will support him in this. We wish him great happiness in this difficult area in these difficult times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u217	Thank you. The word has Marko Bandelli to prepare for Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u218	Thank you for your word, chairman. I mean, most of all, he said his thoughts at the very presentation he had here. I think Dr. Podgoršek personally likes what he would say as a person. I see a man who's extremely operational, and I like that very much. I don't like political ministers if I say so, even though we know for ourselves that politics chooses and sets them as ministers. I like the operative ministers very much, the ones who know what's necessary in the field. We've also heard a few words of this before, but I'm going to let it stand, because I haven't seen the right answers on the ground yet, except for the fact that they show up and make certain gestures self-indulgent, but let us let it stand. I don't think it's a problem if or not a little bit of this policy is missing in the heart, but I think it's better to leave it behind sometime. Let him stay away from this line of professional and professional. As I mentioned in my own hearing, I have a few points that I also said at the time, which are points that we are interested in as SAB, which are points that I am interested in as the SAB Member, as the Kraševac, even if I say so as the Primorca. The importance of absolutely small farmers, these are family farms, as my colleague mentioned earlier, but here are very important funds, European funds are to smartly and effectively turn to small realities, that is to say small farms; in what we need and what we need to accelerate in every way. I believe he who comes from a peasant family understands this and also knows what the needs are, understands what the shortcomings in this segment are. I am also sure that he will get the right solutions in this regard. What I mentioned to him at the hearing at the time — and I hope that because I saw that he also wrote — was a little less bitter and stiff in deciding on municipal spatial plans. This is a very important matter. It's an extremely important matter. Here he must put himself in the thinking that the municipal spatial plans are those strands, those acts that give development to each congregation. We are not talking about municipal spatial plans just for the building or wild walls, absolutely not. Here we are talking about the general development of the congregation and this is the act, the main act of each congregation. There has always been a problem, I must say honestly, because I myself have experienced that our municipal spatial plan has waited, if I say so, and for all the approvals and all the consents and all the nine years. So I think that this must absolutely start to change this system and this grip on this problem, which are municipal spatial plans. This is where I know he saw, he understood that it was very important. Another thing in Crassus, which I also mentioned in my very position, must be Lipica. Lipica needs help. Lipice can't be seen just through profit. Lipica is one important thing, one special thing for us and not just for the Slovenes, on a global level. Because if we don't look after Lipica as such, we're gonna lose her, we're gonna lose the family book, we're gonna lose the herd, we're gonna lose a lot. We will also lose all help and all those people who are with us, who work and live from Lipica and are also farmers. So I think this is one important thing, and I'm going to come to him, and I think we're going to put this together. I don't know how many options and solutions are left for the field issue. This has already been mentioned. But I, in two sentences, will say that I am very disappointed, especially with the behaviour of the other Members of Europe, because if they were all united then, the result would probably be different now. Not all of them fought, in fact, some even wanted it to fail, so that they could point their finger at the other. But here this unity is lacking, I'm afraid, and this is lacking in a number of arguments with us. To conclude, what I was asked to do earlier by my colleagues in the SNS. Of course, I must and will apologize, especially to the two Members who were the ones who allowed Angelika Mlinar to be elected here. But a third Member also insulted and addressed her with certain names. Likewise, other Members of Desus, NSI, so I think there have been quite a few bad words here from certain individual Members – I do not speak from a party, no – of individual Members, because there was no party's position as well. The only thing that surprised me was Mr. Hroat's bad words. I think that Mr Hrvat was wrong I mean, it's not exactly what he said at the time, because when he was Bayuk, he was in the same position, and we all respected him and were pleased with his work. [[…]] I think you might have thought about it a little differently then. That's right on my side. I hope that the Minister will be confirmed and we can wish him only a nice and effective and successful work in his ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Boris Doblekar has the word to prepare Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u220	President, thank you for your word. Dear fellows! I listened very closely to Dr Podgorska's presentation of the candidate for Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food on the Agriculture Committee itself. I also had the opportunity to participate with him in this mandate when he was secretary of state at the Ministry, and I must say that it was a pleasure to work with him. He was very conscientious in his work, standing on the side of the Minister of Agriculture, having extensive experience, so with the farm work itself – he also said that he was a farmer, which he was not ashamed to say, which was sometimes when agriculture was very neglected, such a shameful word. And that's right. It is right that the Minister of Labour himself promote agriculture, Slovenian farmer, Slovenian land, people who work, give up and work hard, and they do not have much. Of course, I hope and wish that the new minister who will be confirmed today, even though he will not be confirmed in some of the parliamentary groups, yet they already know in advance that he will be elected and expected from him to do many things, perhaps even more than we will choose him, I believe that he will do his job 100%. I am particularly pleased by his presentation that he will focus primarily on rural farms or mountain farms, small farms, family farms. I have always been talking about this myself since the beginning of my term of office, and I stress this, and we know that there is still a lot more wrong in agriculture, and there is a lot to be done. In the past, this area has been very neglected. We know that the previous authorities, the previous system that some still want back – I hope it will never again – have emptied the countryside, closed the farms, lured the farmers to cities, city centres, industrial centres, housing blocks, and that is why agriculture is where it is. It has been underinvested in agriculture and today, of course, major problems have been accumulated, and this government has also been very successful in solving them. I hope that we will take this path forward and do the most possible for the Slovenian farmer. We also know that the agricultural budget is very rich, one of the best so far, which I am very pleased with. And I believe that money will also be fairly, fairly distributed. We must not forget, of course, once again, these small farms, family farms, farms from restricted areas. We also know that Slovenia is very well drawn on the map with Natura 2000 and so on. Farmers receive subsidies, compensations and there are still problems, such as livestock, dairy and so on. The crops don't have the right price. A farmer doesn't get what he deserves for his hard work. People themselves, consumers should feel this work of a farmer and also appreciate the work by buying their products, crops, without only visiting these large shopping centers and buying goods that come from abroad and from God knows where. I am also pleased that he will do much in the field of association. It should also be refreshed a little. I think it's a little out of date. Of course, he will also cooperate with the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, which is very important. However, I am aware that if the minister, who will be confirmed today, adheres to everything he has said and carries in his heart as a farmer and is aware of the problems, much will be done for the Slovenian farmer. Amendments to legislation in various fields and so on. Even the modernisation of rural infrastructure, because we know that poor infrastructure is still due to disproportionate costs, such as, for example, a variety of farms or farm tourism is scarce for road infrastructure, the Internet, some even – old ones who are recovering – do not have electricity, which is more than sad. He also announced in the area of forests that he would outwind the company of the Slovenian National Forest, where a number of things had happened in the past, which I think is wrong and it is late that these things should also be settled and placed in their place. As far as forests, hunting itself, we know there are still problems with the wild, with the beasts. Farmers still have problems. I hope that this will continue to be regulated in the future, as we have set out, and that some general consensus will also be reached in this area. Above all, I want young people to stay on the farm, which, of course, Dr Podgoršek, Minister, will also make an effort. Administrative barriers, many of which are piled up, will begin to clean up and, of course, young people should be allowed to work on the farm to stay at home, in the countryside, to be together on farms for three generations. This is the right combination that even a farm, agriculture can live on in Slovenia. Of course, the minister has my support. Finally, I would only say that the Minister would be proud to be elected and confirmed to this Janša government on the day of the celebration of the peasants – today is the world's agricultural day, and on this occasion, of course, all Slovenian farmers, especially my friends in the heart of Slovenia, in the municipality of Litija and Šmartno, would like all the good, good and good work to continue. Happy Slovenian peasants and happy Minister Podgoršek!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The word is Franc Jurša, and Leon Merjasec is to be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u222	Vice President, thank you for your word. On the basis of Mr Podgorsk's candidacy, quite nice words were spoken in this Chamber. Personally, I am particularly pleased that we have proposed a new candidate in a relatively fast, short time, and I think we have been able to find a candidate with competence here. His parents, like himself, quickly realized that he could work on the farm during this period, someone who is qualified, who is also a director, technologist, commercialist, engineer, and so on. That's why they sent their son to school, and he studied all the time in agriculture, further in high school, then in Biotechnical College, where he was also a doctorate in the agrarian economy. That is said, Mr Podgoršek has an education and has experience. He himself said that he was a farmer, which especially pleased me, because I am close to it myself, and he meant it in the right sense of the word. I don't like that word myself. Well, he continued his career in the economy. I met him as the first guardian of the food supply chain, where we discussed some open issues in this area, of course years ago – 2015 or 2016. Since September 2018, he has been Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. In detail, he met the Ministry's work and also met all the segments covered by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Particular attention is paid to practically self-sustainment. It is aware that in Slovenia there is a lack of self-sustainment in some areas, it is aware that about 200,000 people are employed in this area and that most employees are in farm households or farms, not in companies and cooperatives. In fact, he stressed all sectors of agriculture from hunting, fishing, the food processing sector, and stressed that the common agricultural policy is good in Slovenia, that 85 per cent of the funds have already been allocated and that 65 per cent of the funds have been exhausted. Of course, there is also a relatively large contribution to his work. It mentions a lot of laws, especially the Law on Agricultural Lands, the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, the Law on Heritage. This is actually a very difficult area, but not only an expert, very difficult political area. Of course, it won't be easy for him to take this matter through procedures. So it's just a big deal. Of course, it lists a series of laws that it wants to implement or enforce through procedures, by saying that perhaps too many of these proposals have been made because of the fact that the mandate will expire earlier, of course, it will not be a four-year term, as in some initial period, but more than half of the mandate has now expired. To our candidate Jožet Podgoršk, Dr Jožet Podgoršk, I want a successful job in his field, and if there is a need, we will also work closely with him and in certain areas if he asks for help, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Leon Merjasec has the word to prepare for Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! In addition to the current situation with the Coronavirus, we are approaching the African swine fever, which we have already heard a lot about. This virus is not dangerous to humans, but it is lethal to pigs and has serious social, economic consequences. Among the countries affected by this virus is our neighbour, Hungary. That is also why we can expect this virus in our country. This would also mean financial losses for us, mainly due to restrictions on trade and exports of meat and food. The plague alone vaccine isn't there yet. We therefore have a key role to play in tackling the disease by the group and individuals. Timely detection, prevention and reporting of cases is important for the plague itself. That is why the hunters are concerned about the course of future events. We can expect a restriction or a total ban on fishing in infected areas or even the exemption of all wild pigs from the environment. Which will help us once again to be hunters in a poor voice like the exception of a bear. We are also concerned about personal protection in handling infected animals, that we will not be carriers of African swine fever, as this affects local agriculture, forest management, tourism and other related activities. However, since the candidate for Minister Dr Podgoršek has already pointed out this problem in his own presentation, I believe that he will deal with problems professionally, which will be good for everyone. Also from this point of view, as we have already heard about the candidate himself, he has my support for the appointment of a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u225	Thank you very much. As the last on the list, he has the word Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u226	Thank you very much. I don't have more than five minutes. However, I think it is right to say something about the candidate for minister, namely, Secretary of State of Podgorsk, I can tell you that as the former Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, I have had, I can say, quite a while, so I have worked in the same cycle of flows. So I had a look at the work of both former Minister Alexandra Pivec and her Secretary of State, Dr Podgorsk. The first situation which is and the first part of my debate, I would like in particular to thank Dr. Pivčev, for whom I think she was an excellent minister. It was also excellently accepted with Slovenian farmers, farmers, in the Slovenian countryside. Also within this circle is Dr Podgoršek, who I think has shown from this circle, including Dr. Pivčev, that he has a vision of agriculture, that he understands agriculture and that he understands the great problems and challenges of agriculture in the 21st century. We have met on the Committee on Agriculture and also at numerous meetings with a number of farmers, small, large and medium-sized farms, i.e. with a team to deal with the problems and problems of Slovenian agriculture, including those of small farmers, middle farmers and large agricultural enterprises, because I think all three factors are needed in Slovenian agriculture and for Slovenian self-sustainment. Slovenian small farms or family farms are needed primarily for the self-sustainment and, in particular, for the preservation of the landscape that is necessary. Last but not least for tourism development and rural development. What is important is to stress that we also have sufficient resources in this area in the next European perspective. The problems posed by the brexit were that we would lose about 15 per cent in the area of rural development in the European funds. I can say that this government – before that, Dr. Pivchev, the President of the Government, Mr Janša, has ensured that it is in the agricultural field, I could say, this manca has been reduced, so the budget is the same, which is a great victory for both the government and the areas of Slovenian agriculture. The next issue, which is important, is that Dr Podgoršek, as a candidate, announced the fight against swine fever, which is a major problem in our neighborhood and could also be a major problem in Slovenia. The next issue is the Animal Protection Act, the Animal Protection Act, then there, as some of you have told me before, is the problem of Slovenian land policy, which is always, as colleagues Jurš said, also a major political topic. I think it is possible to find some dialogue among all the factors in agriculture, in order to ensure, above all, that young takeovers have sufficient quality flat land so that they can – I would say so – also manage the farm commercially successfully. This is how I thank former Minister Dr. Pivčev and Dr. Podgoršku for their support in the area of opening the topic of the renaissance of geothermals in agriculture as well. At the time of this spring coronation, I remember one picture when I went to one of the shopping centers and two of them were arguing over the last pepper on one of the shelves that came from China. Paprika was actually more about trash than it was about serious sales. But with that pepper in this mall, I wondered if we Slovenians were able to provide enough quality vegetables for our own self-sustainment in wintertime. If we have a vision, if we provide it with strong wealth, which we have mainly in the eastern part of Slovenia, i.e. in geothermal water, to ensure a sufficient number of bottles, geothermal power plants and all other models that would operate in the cascade and exploit this geothermal, then we can be great winners. Let me say that in the area of vegetables in Slovenia we have less than 40 per cent self-sustainment and with the support of this geothermal system we can also provide extremely large self-sustainment in wintertime, which is now a major problem. The next segment of Slovenian agriculture, however, is concern for the elderly, as some of you have told me before. This – today is the world's agricultural day – that older people deserve, those who worked on Slovenian farms come from Slovenian mountains themselves, 40, some have worked even 50 years and that today have miserable pensions is unacceptable. Therefore, this emphasis that they will also receive and that we and we will repair these farmers' pensions, I think it must also be a first-class political issue, because young people taking over farms need to see what awaits them and how the state will take care of them in the last autumn. That is why I want Dr Podgorsk, now as a candidate for the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, all good and, of course, my voice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u227	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the proposal for a candidate for a minister in accordance with the timing of the meeting in 15 minutes in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item and the 46th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 20.35 minutes. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 20.19 and resumed at 20.35.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u228	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. The National Assembly will first vote on item 2 and then on item 1 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda – dealing with the proposal for a Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: Dr Jože Podgoršek is appointed Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 48 votes against 7. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I find that Dr Jože Podgoršek is appointed Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. I ask the newly appointed minister to join us in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u229	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u230	I congratulate the Minister on his appointment and wish him a successful discharge of his duties. I'm asking the minister if he wants to talk to the National Assembly. [[Yeah.]] You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u231	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Council of Ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! With great respect for the minister's office a few weeks ago, I took the initiative of Desus to run for office, and today, honourable Members and Members, I thank you for your confidence. I will not be presenting the programme because I have had the opportunity to present it on the parental committee, but I would like to stress that I will be fully responsible for the tasks entrusted to me, and I hope that at least in my work I will be able to justify your expectations and expectations of stakeholders in the food supply chain. Perhaps my appointment, tonight's appointment, has a symbolic character. In a few hours, so tomorrow, we're marking the world's food day. Despite the fact that we often forget that we need a farmer for it, this year and the current time warn us that we need a Slovenian farmer for food in our country. And as a resortary minister, I want our farmers to maintain their love for Slovenian land, for farming and together with cooperatives, food processing companies and traders to take care of our food security. Allow me today, on the world's agricultural day, to smell them as well. Dear farmers, I am proud of you and thank you for your contribution to Slovenian farms. You are an important foundation of our farms and therefore I ask you to remain one. Ladies and gentlemen, the challenges ahead are challenging, so I hope that together we will be able to find the right solutions for the future development of our agriculture. We're gonna make it together, so once again, thank you for your confidence. Stay healthy! / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u232	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda – secondly, the proposal for a law on temporary measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of COVID-19, as part of the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 15 October 2020, which is published on the “new” e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Levica Group to Article 3(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Left and Sab groups to this Article shall become irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Comrade Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u233	Thank you for your word, chairman. In 2017, Slovenian health legislation enriched the introduction of the so-called responsible health care provider, providing quality health services in the private health sector as well. Probably no one wants to see a repeat of the case a few years ago, the Cimerman case, where a private doctor worked without a license, operated in cosmetic salons, performed amputations for no reason, and so on. These provisions state that in the private sector these responsible institutions must possess a licence, 5 years of work experience and must not be penalised for certain offences. After all, it is the standards of the profession, including the license of the Medical Chamber. With intervention legislation, however, Janez Janša's government is lagging behind these provisions in practice. Why? So that private health care can profit freely from people's hardships. The poor EUR 50 million is spent on reducing waiting times for private people, while at the same time the public health system is being abandoned – not only at current costs arising from the epidemic, but also at investments. The budgets for 2021 and 2022 do not provide new funds for such urgent modernisation and upgrading of infectious clinics in Ljubljana or Maribor. The final idea for all these measures and provisions is to privatise the public health system in a way that is publicly exhausted and further strengthens in private. Also, by moving quality guards during private health care to an indefinite future and these poor €50 million to reduce the waiting times of the Karsed is widely distributed among individuals beyond the provisions governing the use of public funds to provide health care. We have therefore tabled an amendment to intervention legislation in Levika, which is delaying the application of these anti-milk provisions to the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u234	We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 3(2). We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 9(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to this Article shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 9(2). We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 23. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 10 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Left and Sab groups to this Article shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 25. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 10 to Article 1 was adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to this Article became irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 11. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 23. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 13, under number 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SDS and NSI to this Article shall become irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, colleague Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u235	Thank you very much, President. The amendment proposes simple matters, that is to delete the provision by which the Government wants to limit the gathering of people in private places. We estimate that this is a serious and strict intervention in constitutionally guaranteed rights, an intervention in privacy and, above all, an intervention in the inviolability of housing. What the Government proposes is literally a pure autocratic reception with which the Government or the ruling party and NSI, as we see then in the next amendment to this article, actually supervise what citizens and citizens or residents of Slovenia are doing in their homes. This, of course, is like a whole bunch of other provisions of this law under the pretext of controlling the epidemic. We will, of course, vote in favour of this amendment in the left hand side. If there is a matter going beyond the border, this provision, although there are many others in this law, which is more than controversial, and of course we appeal to all those who give some fundamental constitutional rights to support this amendment, not to allow the Government or the aspirations of the main or the largest government party to oversee everyone at every step. To control what people do at home, at home, in their own homes, in their own houses, is a drop over the edge. So again. In Levica, we will support this amendment of the opposition. Of course, we count on all those who give more to constitutional order and human rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u236	On behalf of the parliamentary group, first of all Jani Möderndorfer, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u237	Thank you very much. In the LMŠ Group, we will support this proposal, or this provision, which actually proposes to delete it. But there are more reasons. But I'm only going to mention what I think we're all going to be able to think about. This government has a Minister of the Interior who is also supposed to implement this provision. This minister, who says he is a minister, has once lied to the entire Slovenian public. For the second time, at a press conference, when asked what this means to enter private property, he made it very clear that this does not mean entering apartments. I don't know a provision that talks about private property or separates it into residential property or any other. The law is written in such a way that, in fact, the police or the minister can do what he wants. The constitutional article is very clear, which determines when to enter the apartment and the private space. Of course, exceptionally, without a court order, it can only be entered when the offence is committed. Certainly not, however, when a criminal offence and a breach of quarantine or a violation of a decree does not constitute a criminal offence. Therefore, we call on all those who put something on what the fathers of the Constitution have written in the Constitution and, of course, also a clear message to all citizens and citizens that they are still safe in this country. If this provision is adopted, then I will say in the spirit of those who give something, that only God can really help us, because the Constitutional Court has become unpredictable. However, I believe that he has so much wisdom that if a constitutional conflict arises, it will also end. However, since the path is long to such decisions, a great deal of damage will be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Mr Janja Servant on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u239	Yes, thank you very much. I must say that I have already warned at the meeting of my mother's working body on behalf of SMC that the comments on this article of the Legal and Legal Service, and also what we ourselves know about the constitutional right of an individual to inviolability of an apartment, even for us, are controversial. And we've warned and we've called for a way to solve this. Of course, we have been monitoring all the time today how the matter is changing, how these amendments are changing, and also because we feel that the relevant dictatorship has not been found, we have not signed the amendments to the coalition. Moreover, we think that the dictatorship, such as it is, is so open that it gives the Government an actual legal basis that it can determine certain measures, and we do not know at this moment what these measures will be, whether it is a prohibition of gathering or anything else. We don't even know on what legal basis these measures are going to follow; it is said whether we are now talking about the Criminal Procedure Act or we are talking about the Law on Police Tasks and Powers and so on. Neither do I think these legal bases, because in this case, the police, in this case, are actually carrying out the tasks of the health inspectorate, in addition to the health inspectors themselves and in addition to the authorities, and the police are among those I have listed now, even the only ones who can use force to force themselves into a private space, which is particularly problematic here. And if we draw a parallel with the police's powers at the border, then we can find out that the soldier is dealing with police powers at the border. In this case, however, the policeman, as we speak, is once again a medical inspector; and nothing more than that. And the Constitution makes clear in Article 36 that the apartment is untouchable and that no one shall enter this foreign apartment without a court decision against the will of the householder. And as it has been said, if there were still some legal basis here, on the basis of KZ, because it would be an infected individual, we would still be able to accept it conditionally, and we are now discussing some potential possibility that is unacceptable to us. That is why we will support this opposition amendment in the SMC, as well as the amendment to Article 15.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Janez Moškrič, on behalf of the delegation? On my own. Then, on behalf of the parliamentary group, first Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u241	Thank you, President. For reasons which have already been said and which I can summarise by saying that this provision, in the light of its purpose, is an excessive intervention in human rights, is unclear and, in the view of the Legislative and Legal Service, is subordinated, since it does not specify the competent authority which may order this measure. For all these reasons, we will also vote in favour of this amendment and against the amendment of the coalition in the SAB Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Mr Koprivc, on behalf of the Group of Members? Yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u243	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Well, the Social Democrats absolutely do not support this provision and therefore we support the amendment tabled and we will vote for it. Indeed, this provision clearly reflects the autocratic aspirations of the SDS party. In view of the fact that the police would have a violation of a quarantine, the possibility of entering an apartment, knowing that the apartment is untouchable under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, is unacceptable. I therefore call on all democratic and free-thinking Members and Members to support this amendment and thus remove this unacceptable anti-constitutional provision from the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvat on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I don't want to convince anyone, but I might just explain why we're going to go against this amendment and why we signed the amendment under number two. Because we have learned what fundamental rights say in times of coronation from the point of view of EU law. I regret that some have yet to internalise the fact that we have been members of the European Union for 16 years. Fundamental rights, or the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, put health protection first. I believe the police will not abuse their powers because they never exist. We also have specific judgments from the European Court of Justice, but unfortunately you have not read the extraordinary contribution of the former Advocate General to the EU Court of Justice, Prof. Verica Trstenjak, May 2020, which speaks precisely of fundamental rights during the time of the coronation from the point of view of EU law. As a first provision, it is appropriate to mention from this Charter the protection of health. Human rights are not so absolute. The protection of health in this context in this contribution, on the basis of the provisions of European Union law, comes first. Health protection. Health protection is also covered by primary law contracts, with specific reference to the extensive provision of Article 168. Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. So all of you who are legal professionals, I can't talk to you right now, and I believe that you've read this matter, that you know it, and that you can also use your rally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? If not, first of all, on his own behalf, Comrade Moskritch. You're giving up. My friend Aljaž Kovačič in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u247	Thank you for your word, President. I don't mean to talk to anyone either. I just want to say that we are living in 2020 and it is actually unimaginable what kind of articles have been in marriage. I believe, too, that the police will not abuse this, but will abuse politics, especially the policy we have today. In this article we have two amendments, and it is very important that we support or vote on the amendment of the opposition's parliamentary groups, because even if the second amendment is not passed, the SDS and New Slovenia are said to make no difference, because the original form of law actually makes this possible. The Secretary of State had earlier made a little joke about having, I don't know, some bone picnic and that the police would just come to check how many people there are, that's what it's like, like someone calling for music to be too loud. I think that's what this policy has to do with some serious concerns. I can't imagine voting on someone like that today. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u248	Thank you very much. I'm Tina Hefferle's colleague in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u249	Thank you very much. This amendment to delete this disputed article will, of course, be supported. Why would I support him? Because, as a lawyer, it is a legal profession, I am aware that all human rights are equally important and that at a time when we are, we must not give one human rights priority over another human right and, as we have heard many times today, such a measure as you here foresee, which you want to legitimize, [[adverts from benches]] You suppose, thank you very much; such a measure, which you have in mind here, means some Bianca has authorized the police to, in any case, call a neighbor and say, and I think there are more than 10 people in the apartment, the police will be able to dare, allow themselves to enter such an apartment and see if there are really more people there. This is unacceptable, we know that the human right to inviolability of an apartment is a constitutional human right and can only be reached through a judicial decision. And now to talk about believing that the police will not abuse this provision is very brave. That is how I think that, in the first place, we, as legislators, will have to make sure that provisions are adopted in this house that will primarily protect human rights to the same extent. Even if we are in a health crisis, it does not mean that we can overrun all other human rights on this account. That's why I'm gonna break this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u250	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 33. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Poti 33.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB MPs to Article 13 to Article 1 has been adopted, the amendment of the SDS sent groups and NSI to this Article has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 14(1). We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 8. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Poti 8.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 14(2). We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 45. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Potty.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 15. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 35. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Potty 35.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 16. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Potty 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 19 under number 1. If this amendment is adopted, the post-amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to this Article shall be irrelevant. We're voting. [[No, no, ……]] Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u251	Thank you for your word, chairman. However, the exhaustion of the public health system does not only take place in such a way that, in the light of the covid-19 epidemic, insufficient funds are allocated to the costs of material and services through public health care. Privatisation is also being sought by public health care in a way that makes this public cashier as a payer of material and services an additional burden. In Article 19, the government of Janez Janša does this in such a way that the first three days of the hospital absence of each worker is passed on to this public health treasury. It is said that instead of paying the employer as a social wage for the hospital, this will now be done by the public health department with the funds of all citizens and citizens. We strongly oppose this in the left hand. There is a reason that employers pay for hospital expenses in the first month of their absence for their employees. The only way to relieve them in this way is to stress the fact that there is only a further release of capital, which, according to the logic of the government of Janez Janša, does not have to be taken care of either of its employees. This should be done by all citizens and citizens with payments to the public health treasury. And even more, these expenses of course mean an additional burden for already so tense, over-stressed public funds, which were too few before the covida-19 epidemic even occurred, and we miss them even more in epidemic conditions than we would have missed. Thus, in Levica we propose an amendment that this transfer of the costs of the first three days of the hospital from the employers to the public health treasury, thus protecting public health and public resources from one element of the attempt to privatise the public health system according to a strategy that I have already outlined in my previous explanatory statement; that it is publicly exhausted to feed it; and, on the other hand, that private health should be further watered with public money beyond all standards and beyond all safeguards.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u252	We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 48. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 19(2). We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 33. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 19. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ and SD to Article 34(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to this Article shall become irrelevant. On behalf of the Group of Members, colleague Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u253	In fact, this amendment corrects the proposaler's error because they want to reduce waiting types. With the additional funds allocated by this law to reduce waiting lines, our proposal also provides for a very clear order, a cascade system, who, firstly to whom funds are allocated. In fact, it is unreasonable that the Republic of Slovenia has set up public institutions and appointed concessionaires, of course also setting up a network of health systems and then makes this law a kind of circuit, where the funds are actually determined by everyone, including private individuals, and we do not mind, unless, of course, the public institutions and concessionaires can do so. Therefore, we have made it very clear in the proposal that order should be set and at the same time also appoints or commits the Minister to establish criteria and criteria in the form of the call itself. It also provides that those of private types who compete on these funds must, of course, spend them and have the same conditions as all others in public. Which means that even those bad things that usually never happen to private people — that is, for example, compensation liability and all the other things — are going exactly the same for them. This would, of course, solve a lot of things and here we appeal to support this amendment because in fact we will do in some way a just system and a fair use of these funds. The cascade system has already been proposed once in the Health Act, and I therefore believe that we will be able to do what we want to do in this way. Otherwise, this means, of course, more than a clear beginning to the collapse of the system, because the private sector will in fact be able to do so in one way or another, and this is to invite doctors who are already working in public establishments, the so-called amphibians. That means we're just redirecting the money somewhere else. To think that, of course, such things would not have been done and in this way have been corrected by the law itself, which should have regulated this desire to reduce the waiting species. This, of course, will also support such a proposal in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u254	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Ms Kociper Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u255	Thank you, President. There has been some debate in this law on this provision, which stipulates that all resources should be used to reduce waiting types, is said to be in addition to public institutions, concessionaires, as well as private ones. Some of you believe that this is already absolute means the privatization of health care, the privatisation of our health system and its degradation. Those parliamentary groups that we have signed under this amendment, this is SAB, LMŠ and SD, and this is not how we think. We are convinced that those who are sick and need medical care immediately do not care if they go to a public institution, the public sector, the concessionaire or the private sector. They want health care for themselves as soon as possible and as quality as possible. That is why we have tabled an amendment to the above-mentioned parliamentary group, which sets out the order in which this money to be used by the Ministry for this problem must be used. Thus, only when all resources are used in public institutions will concessionaires be involved. Once the concessionaires and their resources have been used, private individuals shall be involved. We think that, given what kind of country we are and how much money we have already invested in public health, the only legal way. Since we have also set out in this amendment clear conditions and criteria under which money should be divided and also time-consuming, we are confident that we cannot talk in this way about the breakdown of the public health system – but only if this amendment is adopted. Let me tell you a case here. Many people do not know, some hospitals, I will not operate on patients by the name of a hospital, only – said a colleague, a former doctor – for example, by mid-September. Then there's no money for surgery. It's not that there's no doctors, no nurses, no equipment, no operating room. No! No! There's simply no money left for the operations that the health department would give. If this money is available, many of these waiting lines will be able to be saved within public institutions and, as it is said, if this is not enough, further along the system. Let us hope that you will all join together in supporting this amendment, thus protecting our public health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mag. Mr Bojana Muršič on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u257	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Social Democrats are co-signed by this amendment, because what has been happening in health care lately is unacceptable. And also that the health system has become a virtual hostage of covid virus, it must be helped in any way. We can help him with this way of speaking in the amendment itself. Cascading mode – first of all, all resources in the public health system are used, then they are used or the call is based on private concessionaires and then, only in the third phase, they approach the use of these services or the provision of these services to private individuals. This is extremely important because what has already been said several times today, the public health system in September no longer has the means to provide health services, and this is unacceptable. If we have the resources for a national call, it is necessary to first benefit the public health system, that the operating rooms are not empty, that the personnel available in the public health system are refined and used. This is how we will save our public health system, which is working on the waves today. This is a key absolute and we also support the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? No, no, no. Master Dejan Jewan in his own.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u259	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I'll vote for this proposal myself, and I'll tell you why. I am absolutely in favour of the need to give extra money so that those who are waiting for the necessary interventions come to them. I also advocate to check that there is room — and so on — in state hospitals; and, secondly, if there is no room, if there are no people in concessionaires, then in private. But if it is not in the private sector, the Social Democrats advocate that we give extra money and allow people to operate, heal, and also examine in neighbouring hospitals outside Slovenia. So people have to get to their doctor to get rid of the things that make them sick. And there's something else we're so careful about. It is simply not acceptable for us to have in fact a part of health care that sometimes doesn't even have its own premises and then takes people out of the public health system and at the same time the hospitals report that they don't have their own doctors. But then these same doctors come to the privates. Even so, then the operations are carried out, probably even in some areas, which are part of the hospitals, namely the public health system. If this is the case, then it is best to give additional money, the possibility that the director will also pay additional payments to his doctors, nurses, other health care professionals, and let the free operating rooms, doctors and other staff who still have the power to work pay and do it within the healthcare system. Do you know what else will happen? In the private system, in the private sector, because they will take more profitable things, even easier if you want, but when there is a complication, as well as in health care there is a complication, these people come back to UKC Ljubljana, UKC Maribor, to other hospitals and the cost burden comes within the public system. Therefore, we give money, we support more money, we provide opportunities for everyone through the cascade system: public hospitals, then concessionaries, private people, and if this is not enough abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u260	Thank you. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 34(2). We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 3. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 35. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levice and SAB to Article 39(1). If this amendment is adopted, the statutory amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to this Article shall be without prejudice to this Article. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 39(2). We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 8. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SD, Left and SAB to Article 41. Mr. Ciegler on behalf of the Member of Parliament, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u261	Dear Presidents, colleagues, colleagues! In the left hand side, we propose that Article 41, paragraph 8, be deleted. Why? This Article regulates accommodation facilities for the purpose of implementing a measure of isolation or quarantine at home, which does not apply to foreigners and this is discriminatory, in particular to those who do not have a permanent or temporary residence in Slovenia. They themselves must ensure access, return to a transit country or finance isolation. However, the fact is that times are now such that public traffic or movement around the world are practically blocked or are categories that will not be able to afford these things themselves. If foreigners do not have a fixed permanent or temporary residence, this does not mean that they are potentially unable to endanger everyone else in the country when they are moving here and to carry out transmissions of communicable diseases to risk categories. Since the issue of public health is a matter of public health, it is only right that the measure is valid for all and that additional accommodation capacity for isolation is allowed for all. This is the reason why we propose that Article 41, paragraph 8, be deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u262	Thank you. We're voting. There are 76 Members present, with 28 votes against 48. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 42. Comrade Željko Cigler, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u263	Article 42, paragraph 8, provides that up to the capacity for isolation or isolation for foreigners who do not have a permanent or temporary residence and are, due to their illness, determined by a personal treating physician or an epidemiologist, no costs of transport to these facilities shall be borne. It is practically the same discriminatory provision as in Article 41 for accommodation facilities, because the fact is that these people are practically, as long as they continue to move freely around the country and will be infected, endangering public health. This too needs to be done in an equal manner in order to ensure the time of isolation or quarantine due to their illness. We will therefore vote in favour of deleting this eighth paragraph of Article 42.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u264	Thank you. We're voting. There are 76 Members present, with 28 votes against 47. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Left and Sab groups to Article 53. Comrade Kordish, explanation on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u265	Call for help, we can't do this anymore, this is the address of the letter addressed to the executive authorities in this country by the workers working in healthcare. In this letter, they deleted a series of needs that they had, in order to make it easier for them to do their work or to be better rewarded for their work. We're talking about nurses, nurses, everyone else who's holding up the homes of older citizens, as well as the proletariat in the health system. One of their demands is that those workers who were transferred from one site to another in the light of the epidemic, of course, within the health system, should receive an allowance of 30% for work in a different job. This request is, of course, understandable and appropriate. People working under these difficult crisis conditions, especially in vital subsystems such as care and health care, should be properly rewarded. However, the government of Janez Janša finds money for weapons, finds it for lobbyists, finds it to support capital, and I don't know what else, but it can't find it for the proper compensation for workers, for those who actually save us and protect us from the epidemic, so this supplement is only 20 percent in the PKP5. We have tabled an amendment in Levica, which raises and redistributed workers in health and care more appropriately rewards for their work, i.e. an allowance of 30%, as representatives, the health and social welfare union that these people want. Those who really appreciate sacrificing work in 12-hour shifts in red zones, the sacrificing work of healthcare professionals in hospitals, health homes and so on, should stop thanking you left and thank you right, but vote for those who are exposed, those who are redeployed, to increase the allowance they receive on these 30% they want.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u266	We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 54(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this Article shall become irrelevant. We're voting. [[…]] Mr Siter, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u267	On behalf of the Member — yes. Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Regardless of who beats the chest for such or other success in controlling the epidemic in the past, the truth is that it goes first and foremost to congratulate the first and foremost fighters in hospitals and social institutions. These are the people who are in the suits after 16 hours, without lunch and a break, and these are the people who, at the end of the phase, also addressed to the Government a document that we've heard about before, which we hear about in the name of Call for Help, we can no longer. Because the situation in these welfare institutions is in fact critical in hospitals and requires, if not others, at least a serious practical recognition of the work and effort that these people are doing in the first lines of battle. The data, which is crucial here, is that, despite the fact that up to 50 percent of the people doing this work are already missing from this segment under normal conditions, now, due to the complexity of this work at the time of the epidemic or the virus, the number is declining. It's understandable; you can't, and you can't, and you can't, and then you go. Fortunately these people are assisted by a large number of students and students who, within their curriculum, are students of care and care who perform this work within the curriculum – of course, for free. The amendment prepared by a group of opposition parliamentary groups says the following: let us give these people not only congratulations, not only to recognize their work, but also to recognize their work, their work, a self-sacrificing work, which is not only a work, but also a mission, to evaluate fairly. Not with a salary, but with an extra salary of 65 percent. There's one thing to know. Something is an epidemic officially declared a legally valid epidemic. The second is the time of the virus. March, April and May, when the epidemic was officially declared, these workers did their best. But things haven't calmed down since then. From then on, they have worked with the same enthusiasm in view of the number of people infected; even more, the number is growing and the question is what awaits them. At least what they deserve is both employees, caregivers and caregivers in social welfare institutions, such as students and students, who help and play a key role in at least approximate maintenance of the normal state, being paid fairly. We will, of course, support this amendment in the left hand side.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u268	We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 54(2). Mr Miha Kordish on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u269	Thank you for your word. More than 700 infections in one day and the epidemic is not announced in us. On the contrary, more than a few months ago, when ten times and more of the infected epidemics were declared. Citizens, citizens, ladies and gentlemen, have you ever wondered why the epidemic has not yet been officially declared in record infections? I'll tell you why! Not just because of the prestige of the government of John Janša, the reasons are much more material. If an epidemic is declared, workers in the public sector who are exposed to the risks of working under difficult conditions shall benefit from a 65% supplement on their basic salary. If the epidemic is not announced, they do not have an additional one, and the government of Janez Janša does not declare the epidemic because it does not want to give crisis supplements to nurses, nurses, and everyone else who keeps the homes of the elderly and public health care up to date. This is why the epidemic in this country has not yet been officially declared because Janez Janša reigns on health - care workers. At the same time, it will also find political will and financial means to commit to 780 million weapons purchases for the NATO liaison. It finds political will for billions of measures, i.e. to maintain jobs that are translated into a 600 million-dollar increase in capital reserves in enterprises. At the same time, 8,000 jobs are lost. It will find even poor €50 million to feed private health care, while public health is starving. But the allowance for nurses, nurses and all the other health workers who actually protect us from the epidemic who work under difficult conditions, there, in red zones there are 12-hour shifts – so tell my 55-year-old mother, who is a nurse in the nursing home, how should she transport this 12-hour tour, right? - But you can't find money for these people! I'll tell you in the figure what the risk of the Coronavirus epidemic looks like for these health and care workers. The home of the older Škofja Lok has turned into a hotbed of infections due to the unwise conduct of the government of Janez Janša. 19 caregivers and 6 staff members are infected. Six! Those who work with masks in white robes and disinfected hands. Those who sacrificed themselves to care for the caregivers, even if they were infected, are denied a 65 - percent crisis allowance. But some of them are now infected, and they are sick. We're not hypocrites in the Left. We are on the side of nurses and the working class, so we have made an amendment to these medical [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u270	We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 55(1). We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 2. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 55(2). We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 62. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 7. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 71. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 72. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 74. Mr Miha Kordish on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u271	Thank you for your word, chairman. Article 74 of the PKP5 provides for so-called waiting allowances. There was practically no member or parliamentary group in this national assembly in today's debate that would not have praised the measures taken to finance temporary waiting for work. But as a socialist, I must immediately add: it is a very big problem if employers are given the resources to travel a worker to wait for work, to work 100 percent or to pay a high compensation for this waiting period, and then to forgive such a person. The channelling of public funds to private employers, the capital under the umbrella of the financing of temporary waiting for work, does not have any safeguards to prevent redundancies. So why do we allocate public funds to private capital? If we are to maintain jobs, then we also need to put safeguards in the legislation for these jobs. In Levica we propose precisely this – a stricter ban on forgiveness, as is now enshrined in legislation that is practically non-existent. At least three months after the receipt of the funds from this measure has expired, the employer of the worker for whom the measure was applied must maintain it. As long as these measures continue, the worker must also not be forgiven. If we don't have these fuses, we can see what happened in the first half of this year. From the measures to be taken to preserve jobs, at least as Janez Janša’s government has claimed, employers have absorbed 600 million funds and have sunk them into capital reserves. At the same time, 8,000 jobs were lost. I said at the time that it was measures to subsidise capital and protect its profits. You rushed to calm me down, you rushed to make me angry, not that it was a means to people and to jobs. Now, today, a few months after that, it's clear what time it is. It was the money of all citizens and citizens who went to support private capital. Now the PKP5 is threatening to continue this. The state will give money to keep jobs, employers will put this money in their pocket and people will also lose their jobs at the end of the day. To ensure that this does not happen that jobs are actually covered by these public funds, we say that anyone receiving a public waiting allowance must also maintain this post at least three months after the expiry of this measure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u272	We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 81. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[68 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 83. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Nobody sweats.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 84a. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Poti 1.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 85(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to this Article shall become irrelevant. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to Article 88 under number 1 becomes irrelevant, since the amendments are substantively linked. A colleague of Violeta Tomić on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u273	Thank you for your word. This is a cross-check and extension of the reference period from 13 March to 31 August. We know that nicknames lose everything, and during co-crist times they really don't have the opportunity to work; they say, self-employed, espionage and so on. In short, the declared epidemic was concluded in May and was formally cancelled also in order not to have to pay the extras to those most vulnerable; it is said, self-employed in culture and predators. It is now based on income for all those who have only decided on the activity until 13 March, and we propose that this reference period be extended until 1 September, because it is aid for self-employed people, because otherwise those who have registered their activities later are harmed, and they are also in severe distress and not left at home for their own fault, where they do not have the opportunity to work and earn their daily bread. We will, of course, support and take care of those most vulnerable, because when we talk about supplements, let me just say, if you remember, the government paid itself a crisis allowance, and in advance, as an advance because it worked in such difficult conditions. But those who work in health care and elsewhere, those who are most vulnerable, those who are self-employed, and those who are somehow stepmotherly. Once again, this amendment is supported and taken care of by the most vulnerable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u274	Thank you. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Potty 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 85(2). We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Nobody sweats.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment by the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 85 has not been adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to Article 88 under Article 1 has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 88a under Article 2. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Left and Sab groups to this Article shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Nobody sweats.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 88(2) was adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to this Article became irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 90. We're voting. There are 74 Members present, 46 votes against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Left and Sab groups to Article 90. We're voting. There are 77 Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 92. We're voting. There are 73 Members present, with 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 97. We're voting. There are 74 Members present, with 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 98. Mr Željko Cigler on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u275	Mr President, thank you. Colleagues and colleagues! In Levica, we propose that Article 98 be amended by providing direct funding for measures in the field of education, science and the operation of the temporary coordination body at the Ministry of Education. However, the matter is financed from the resources of the budget and from European funds. We are proposing the amendment on the initiative of the Education, Education, Science and Culture Union, which brings together practically most of the employees in this area, most of the workers in the field of education, education, science and culture in the country. The proposed amendment shall ensure the obligation to finance protective equipment for all participants in education and education. Secondly, these funds provide for the employment of additional staff, which today is heavily burdened in educational institutions, in kindergartens, both in the kitchen, cleaning and in the technical maintenance of buildings. This money is also needed for additional jobs and trainees in primary, secondary and kindergarten schools to help overworked professionals in education and education. Last but not least, this amendment establishes a coordinating body at the Ministry of Education to establish dialogue. This body would act as a consultative body between the Ministry and representatives of all key stakeholders in the field of education and education when preparing, adopting or modifying measures to prevent the dissemination of covid-19 in educational institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u276	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 76 Members present, 29 votes against 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 123. We're voting. There are 74 Members present, with 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levice and SAB to Article 127. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the groups of Members of the same proposer to this Article shall become irrelevant under Article 2. Colleague Violeta Tomić, explanation of vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u277	As it is said, we propose to delete this first paragraph, because a single sentence repeals a complex law that has been in force since 2014. The government has accepted this in the anti-Korona package, and we do not know what deregulation of the price of the book can have a bearing on the health epidemic. In short, the biggest problem is that they have done this without knowledge, any consultation that we are already accustomed to, and the involvement of the interested public, without bookkeepers, the Public Book Agency and so on. In short, one sentence removes the law under the cover of anti-Korona measures. This really has nothing to do with switching covid-19s, and these so-called subsets are within the anti-korona measures that we detect, deal with and, of course, do not approve. Therefore, our amendment proposes that this paragraph be deleted in this disputed Article 127. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u278	Thank you. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 127. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levice and SAB to 129.a Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to this Article shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to 129.a Article 2. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the members of the LMŠ, SD, Left and Sab groups for a new 129.b. under number 1. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision from the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus parliamentary groups for a new 129.b Article 2. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] He realizes that the amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the members of the LMŠ, SD, Left and Sab groups for a new 129.c. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] It notes that the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the members of the LMŠ, SD, Levice and SAB groups for a new 129.č article. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading adopted amendments to 9, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15, 19, 33, 34, 35, 39, 55, 62, 72, 81, 83, 84.a, 85, 88, 90, 92, 97, 123, 129a and the new 129.b section of the amended proposal. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? [[No, no, ……]] I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Mr Siter, on behalf of the Group of Members, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u279	Thank you very much. The fifth anti-korona package is, as already mentioned in the introduction, the core of Janez Janša's policy position. It continues the tradition of previous anti-Korona packages with constitutional controversy, by disrupting the rule of law, by unnecessarily establishing a police state, with clearly disproportionate measures, and is also disputed in the way of parliamentary treatment, by breaking the hygienic minimum in debates, by hurrying on committees, by speeding up the amendments, as we have seen this morning, including by taking the word of the opposition MPs and so on. Of course, the government is doing this to hide its inability to control the epidemic. At a time when, from March to now, the government could learn a lesson and strengthen public health, it had saved the economy and the country's social map completely in a different direction. She decided to play public health in order to be able to come privately as a great savior and offer a market at the end of the day, and when that happens, we are only one step away from having those citizens in the country who will be able to afford a doctor and on the other hand those who will not. Because of these played men in Levica, we cannot support this law; a law that we can easily call a law on the sale of public health. If ever, a public health network is now crucial in controlling the epidemic; that network that sets up entry points for covid throughout the country is the one that today, say, cares for 745 people. So instead of strengthening this network, the government takes it. But the government has also consolidated its repressive position with this law, oh, yes! The granting of inspection powers to police officers and city officials and the additional powers of police officers to open doors to private apartments and so on. And also, painfully, again, about the biggest interventions in the functioning of the social state, health and culture, the stakeholders covered by these areas have not been harmonised at all. The government of Janez Janša doesn't really need anyone. As I began in the introduction to the presentation of the parliamentary group – opaque, inconsistent, corrupt and harmful. We will not support this law in the Group of the Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u280	My colleague, Andre Zabret, on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u281	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We already have the fifth antikron package ahead of us and, as has been said many times today, the purpose of the law is good. Some measures are good – for example, the change in that the monthly base income is also justified by those who have started their activity or service after 13. 3. 2020, which is also proposed in the opposition, free vaccination against influenza, re-introduction of monthly basic income, to which employees will not be entitled under copyright and business contracts. You are extending the temporary wait-for-work measure, where you have not again protected your jobs. We are pleased that you have decided to extend the validity of tourist vouchers, although we are surprised by this change in your decision. On Monday you were determined against our extension proposal, now you come with your proposal. Well, because it's nothing new to you, that's exactly what you've done with all the PKPs so far. Now for our support of the law. The LMŠ always acts as a creative and constructive opposition, as we have already clearly demonstrated several times when we also supported the amendments of the coalition, the Law on the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund. We support good measures, however, this law, which is before us today, has been adopted without social dialogue, paves the way for the privatisation of public health, further broadens the powers of the police and editors, introduces a monopoly on microbiological investigations into covid, provides for the termination of the law on the uniform price of the book, which is not even a matter of intervention legislation, continues to be abandoned by the groups on monthly basic income, and the coalition has overcame our proposals to help culture, such as cultural vouchers and valuations. Most of all, it was the intention of two coalition parties following the amendment of Article 13 to explicitly provide for the restriction or prohibition of the gathering of people in private places and premises. As a result, we will not support this law in the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u282	Colleague Bojana Muršič on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u283	Thank you very much, President, for your word. The Social Democrats will not support the law, because, as I stated in the Group's position, we will bind this support to the amendments we have proposed. It must be said that only two amendments of the 30 amendments of the opposition we have tabled have been adopted. The government, with this proposal, intervenes in the vital subsystems of society. According to our belief, public health is the most at stake this time; this is the public health care that saves the covid virus today and the health personnel that saves the lives of our people today. The national call for reduction of waiting lines, which is part of the current anti-korona package, also allows private parties to apply for the invitation to tender. The costs will be borne by public funds. For Social Democrats, such a solution to the reduction of waiting lines in health is clearly the intention of the Government to privatise health activities. Nor does the provisional freezing of the Single Price Act justify the purpose of intervention legislation, except for the fall in the sales of books at that time. We ask Social Democrats whether the temporary freezing of the law is really the only help the state can offer to publishers and bookstores to solve their problems. Moreover, interference with a very large number of different laws with unclear and non-coherent provisions increases uncertainty and mistrust in people. What is even worse is causing increasing social distress, exclusion, and we must be particularly concerned about the elderly and the disabled, the personal, including vulnerable groups, and we must not forget children and adolescents. However, we welcome measures in the area of waiting for work, basic income for self-employed persons, payments for quarantined parents of children, allowances for workers in social security institutions, free vaccination against seasonal influenza for all. Unfortunately for us, the fact that you've forgotten about the holiday workers. But the people's confidence in the measures taken is what you have already learned, the only key that unlocks the door to our country's better future in this force of concern. Before the whole country there are difficult days and also weeks, citizens and citizens with common powers, while respecting the measures proposed by the profession, we will be able to overcome this virus. Let's step together, protect ourselves and others, and let's trust each other in the first place. We're gonna make it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Mia Kordish in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u285	Thank you for your word, chairman. In this country, we have two million people, and I really don't know what these two million people have done so terrible to John Janša that every time he ascends to power and forms a government, these two million people step on, kick on, chase them, do everything he can, just to make the country move. There's been an epidemic of the Coronavirus, an epidemic that's still going on. The government has faced such incompetence as the places under the Alps have never been seen before. The health system. In six months, the government of Janez Janša was unable to prepare a single specialized hospital for the needs of covido-19 patients. Older people's homes. The government still pretends that some gray and red zones are any solution, while the homes of the elderly turn into sources of infection. When it comes to public transport, school distribution and different border regimes, which once and for all are not, I don't even start. With the same incompetence, the Government also manages crisis legislation. This time we accept her fifth iteration, and this fifth iteration is exactly the same victory as her first iteration. With this anti-Korona legislation, the government privatises public health. The hospital and its employer costs are placed on a health-care facility, giving private people an invitation to tender; it retains capital and calls it job protection, even though over the past months it has exhausted EUR 600 million of public funds through its job protection to private people. In the meantime, it does not adequately reward nurses, paramedics and other health and care workers who keep homes and hospitals awake at the outbreak and leave people in social distress, including those who are on leave.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u286	My friend Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u287	I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u288	My friend Pojbicz, no provocations, please. Please step back over there. Please step aside. No, you can't stand there. No provocations. Because we're going to continue until midnight. My friend Kordish, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u289	Thank you, Chairman. I suggest you call the hall to calm down. Here, apparently, on my way to Spain, while I explained my voice, a colleague of Marjan Pojbič from the SDS Group came. But, colleagues and colleagues who are now upset, don't worry. My friend Pojbich is so lame, I didn't even notice him. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u290	Please, a little peace, if you don't, I'm gonna cut this thing off for half an hour, so you can calm down a little bit, and we'll move on. Colleague Sukich, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u291	Dear President, I ask you to really warn that side of the Chamber that while someone is explaining his voice, whether they like it or not, what this Member or Member of Parliament is saying is that they are listening and not disturbing the one who is speaking. Please really give them a reminder to simply establish some normal working conditions here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u292	My colleague Sukič, as you've noticed, I did this before you intervened. He's a German friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u293	I would just like to ask Mr Pojbič if we have understood him correctly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u294	No, no, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u295	Procedurally, yes. If you can, you ask him if he really said he'd nail us like that. Is that what you said, Mr. Pojbich? Did you come here to threaten maybe?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u296	Comrade German, you have a procedure. If you don't have one, I see you don't have one, I'll thank you. [[…]] I think he did what he predicted. Please turn off the microphone and proceed. Any other explanations? She's a colleague of Tomić's own.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u297	I know it's late and we're all tired. But the biggest party on that side, SDS, is so drunk with power that they almost seem to listen to our arguments. But I must say, I will vote against this law. Why? Because there are no systemic serious solutions and because you are always talking about some kind of cooperation, but you are not able to support the good amendments and the deliberate amendments proposed by the opposition. My friend Pojbich is so nervous, we're nodding our heads so we can get rid of him. Then he's in phase two when he's pounding on the head. Poor head, next time he'll be by the wall. [[Laughing in the hall]] He's coming to us now, threatening us probably. For all this aggression from one side to the other, you know, shows not only the repression of peace-loving protestors, we are fortunate to be able to prevent home invasions. The only thing they've actually achieved today. It's not small, it's huge, it's that we don't have representatives of this authority, these undemocratic authorities hitting citizens and citizens in apartments under the pretext of covida. I am so happy that she has overcome common sense, but I regret that we have not protected the nicknames, that we have not achieved cultural vouchers; in short, we have not achieved the protection of the workers who receive their employers' subsidies to maintain jobs, and then they can quietly forgive them, all these things have been heard peacefully. Not to mention the clear intentions after the privatisation of public health in this fifth antikoronic package. I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-15-SDZ8-Izredna-46.ana.u298	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members present, with 48 votes against 29. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 46th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
