ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with the continuation of the 16th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Franz Kramar, Mr Predrag Baković and Mrs Violeta Tomić from 10.30 to 13.30. I welcome all those present once again kindly! With this, honourable Members and honourable Members, we are moving on to the 11th A Dot of the Day, which is a proposal for the election of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At its 15th meeting on 29 January 2020, the National Assembly took note of Mr Marjan Šarc's notification of his resignation from the office of President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, found that his office as President of the Government had ceased. On 26 February 2020, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, proposed, pursuant to Article 111(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, to elect Mr Janez Janša as the new Prime Minister of the Government. I give the floor to the candidate for Prime Minister Janez Janša to present the Government's programming designs in accordance with paragraph 226 of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u2	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, members of the Government, distinguished High Council! Following the resignation of the Prime Minister, the coalition of parties of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the parties of the modern centre, Nova Slovenije and the Democratic Party of pensioners of Slovenia agreed on a new coalition contract – for Slovenia, for the welfare of Slovenia. This coalition contract is the basis of a government programme. This government programme will, of course, be presented on a proposal from the government at the next stage if I get your confidence today as a candidate for the Prime Minister. Today, in accordance with Rule 226 of the Rules of Procedure, only guidelines for the establishment of a future government can be presented here. In the coalition agreement, we came from the current situation in Slovenia, from the fact that the Prime Minister of the Government unexpectedly resigned, that he caused a government crisis and that there were two options ahead of us – or early elections, which at best would give Slovenia a new and operational government somewhere in the autumn, or an attempt to form a new majority in this national assembly. The Slovenian Democratic Party was, as always, ready to talk to everyone after each election. The guidelines to be presented today are guidelines for those who have been willing to talk and also to agree on how to resolve the key problems that are ahead of the country at this time; aware that we are in fact only two years ahead of us and that each coalition, including this for a half term, can only compromise on those solutions that all coalition partners agree on. As a starting point, we have put forward the fact that we are currently facing not only problems of material nature but also those of deeper nature in this country. As a result, the coalition will put everything that brings us together and connects us in the first place. We will defend cooperation on the basis of our willingness to work for the common good. However, the challenges that have not been answered in the existing coalition treaty are either indicatively known in the sense that we know that they can occur, or are unexpected, because in each mandate, things that are impossible to plan will come up, we will try to find answers by negotiating, seeking consensus. We will also invite the opposition and the representative of both nationalities in this national assembly to design systemic solutions. At the heart of these programming guidelines, I point out that Slovenia can do more than what it currently shows. More can be achieved, for the first time, by measures that do not require any additional funding, on the contrary – they can release these funds, and in the second part by measures that require large-scale transfers of funds. Nor will this be enough, as they require the reallocation of financial resources and also the creation of conditions for the gross domestic product of that country to be increased and for more funds to flow into state treasury. Some actions in the future will certainly also require higher levels of contribution based on broader consensus and agreement on the unrelenting demographic statistics we are facing, and a little more on this. So what is it that we can do better without higher financial inputs and thus also allow for the release of additional potentials? It's mostly two things, it's debarcation and it's decentralisation. At the end of the mandate of the last government, which we led, an assessment was made of the capacity of the state administration in Slovenia. This was in early 2013. I'm not going to bore you now with all the statistics, because you know it in part; let me say that we have discovered cases there. For example, in 1996, not so long ago since this assessment was made, there have been 12 procedures at a ministry, and in 2013 29 employees carried out the same procedures, and today there are 33 employees. In 1996, 12 people were able to carry out all these procedures easily, today we need 33 employees in the state administration, while there are still 2 million of us, that computers are significantly more capable and that even from rich practice, we can transfer some good practice from other European countries, which allows things to be done better, faster and cheaper. We have a part, not entirely, but we have a part of the administrative work of the public sector, which employs too many people, including quality staff; on the other hand, these personnel are lacking in the economy and are sought by light on a white day. There is an urgent need for a certain redeployment. Now I'm gonna tell you one other case. When Igor Omerza and I founded Micro Ado in 1987, decades ago, we needed 48 consents. This meant several months of the situation in the types, filling out the forms and when we had all of these 48 consents, the company could have been set up. Today you can set up a company very quickly, all in one place. But when it comes to business, although I am not known for any very positive assessments of the former regime, I can say that back then it was even easier to do business than it is today. Why? In 1992, when Slovenia was not only a single country, we were also internationally recognised, we had our own currency, diplomacy, military, stronger than today, trained police, all institutions that worked more or less. At the time, there were fewer than 2,000 rules in Slovenia. At that time, 404 laws and a thousand 555 regulations were in force. At the end of last year, we had 860 laws in force in this country and 20 thousand 101 under-laws at the state level. The number of signatures fell at this time. It's half past ten. And we have moved from a state defined by the Slovenian Constitution in 1991, with which we have drawn up a constitutional order in which everything that is not prohibited is allowed, and where the legal basis for action is needed by the state authorities, not by citizens, to a state where only what is expressly prescribed is allowed before the adoption of this constitution; and yet it is not known because it is impossible to know 20,000 rules. In addition, it generates huge costs of managing the country, generates long procedures in front of authorities, lost hours, days, weeks, months, years. With this bureaucratic cover, with these more than 20,000 regulations at the state level, we have caused an anti-constitutional situation in Slovenia, because today we are in a situation where many in the administration explain that they are all allowed to have a discretionary right. Meanwhile, an ordinary citizen can only do what is prescribed; and when he comes to solve his problems, they ask him where his legal basis is. The legal basis is the need of a state authority. He is permitted to do what is prescribed. He must take care of legality and constitutionality. Without altering a single article in the Constitution, we have put a constitutional state on our head with these 20,000 regulations. Today, Slovenia is not a society or a country of personal civil and entrepreneurial freedom in this regard, but all of this is drastically limited. I could tell you dozens of other cases. We have held talks in recent months with a large part of the Slovenian economy. We have heard drastic cases of cases that have been taking place in the process for years, making it impossible for businesses to grow and forcing entrepreneurs to seek other countries for normal functioning; which, of course, also causes poor will and also lower wages for employees. The Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia currently has more than 400 projects. In these 400 projects, there are tens of thousands of jobs, tens of millions of taxes and contributions that are not collected. If this were to be achieved, something would be created there, including taxes and contributions. And in these backward projects, there are a lot of lost opportunities for young people who have to look for these opportunities abroad. We have legislation where, when a major project is being prepared, you can set up civil society, civil society organization, non-governmental organization, as we call it; you are a party in the process, you are filing complaints, you are blackmailing – and you are nothing to anyone. Debarcation can significantly accelerate general development in the country; however, it is true that what has accumulated for decades cannot be eliminated overnight, that rough cuts sometimes cause problems at the other end, and that this must be done in an orderly and tactful manner. Another such thing is decentralisation. A more balanced regional or general development of this country has been discussed since there have been speakers in this national assembly, and this has already been discussed in the former assembly; but the differences have not decreased significantly. Even the greatest acceleration in the development of peripheral regions was the reform of local self-government in 1994, when, in some part, it was possible to make a joint decision at a local, micro level, ensuring that many Slovenian places developed significantly faster than they would have done without it. But it was only a half-step; we still have no regions or landscapes. The debates that are going in this direction are also started at the wrong end. First, people need to be presented with what they will get by establishing the landscapes and then delete the borders. If people imagine that this is just a new bureaucracy, extra fixtures and offices, then, of course, the public will not be inclined to do so. This is also necessary in order to better organise the country's investment in European funds. Of course, we do not have the State authorities to introduce a balance sheet. Wherever the state authorities were used to do so, they achieved this balance sheet, but in poverty. See what's going on in Venezuela, Cuba or North Korea. However, we have a country to ensure that there is as much equal baseline as possible because it is something other than compulsory equality. How are the same baseline options ensured or the best possible baseline for success in life? In particular, by providing a young person with quality education and by providing infrastructure to all parts of the country, not only physically but also service or social. I can give you statistics on how to do this in Ljubljana or Prekmurje. You'll see we're doing a lot of digging on the spot. Currently, Slovenia, as far as centralism is concerned, is in a state that harms not only the edge but also the center. Ljubljana is drowning in traffic today. A city with fewer than 300,000 inhabitants, a good quarter of a million, has larger communication problems than most European or world cities where 3 million people live. There are 130, 140 thousand people running into this centre every day, and those who drive to Ljubljana, we know that you can't get to Ljubljana in the morning at a normal time, not just in Ljubljana, you can't even get past it. The same is true at the end of the afternoon. When you look at numbers, you can only wonder how it can be made so crowded with such a relatively small number of people. But that's where things go straight ahead. Millions of hours of work, as well as hours of life, are lost in these columns. And so far, there has been nowhere to see any measures that would start to change that. There are also no solutions here for all of this to be done overnight, but it is possible to stop the practices that increase this problem. Why, say, is the housing fund still building apartments in Ljubljana, where they are once more more expensive than many others in Slovenia, and Ljubljana is already piled up?Oh, my God! It's a double-deficit behavior. Why is every new institution being formed established in Ljubljana? This is also a double harmful practice. The coalition that we have put together has pledged that all new institutions, once they are created, will be located outside the centre from the demographic fund. Furthermore, while this is probably an ambition for a future mandate, certain institutions now at the centre need to be relocated across the country, because this will not be in any way, in the current technological conditions, which ensure many times smooth operations even remotely, reduce the efficiency of any institution. We also know a good scratch in other European countries. And the key to decentralisation being a strategic project that takes place with real steps is that quality infrastructure is being built throughout the country. On the inside, it is particularly digital, as more and more jobs will be linked to this infrastructure in the future. The programme that the new European Commission has on the digitisation of Europe is also to a large extent the programme that we need to make it possible to take faster steps towards decentralisation in Slovenia. In addition, today, as we know, there are two key Equalisers in the sense that they provide as much as possible equal baseline opportunities in society, such as education and the Internet, the right possibility of accessing an enormous amount of data, the possibility of processing and the possibility of delivering services without physically moving. In the second set there are those things or movements that also require extensive financial restructuring. Here it comes first, now we're talking about the strategic problems of this country, demographics. Slovenia has the eighth oldest population in the world, one of the oldest in Europe, older than the European average, the whole of Europe has this problem, Slovenia is the country with the highest demographic risk by 2050 on the European continent. However, even in this high assembly, this debate does not take place as if this is not our problem, that this is the problem of future generations, they will already take care of themselves. Unfortunately, this is also a problem for these generations and must be tackled immediately. The commitment in the coalition agreement on the establishment of the demographic fund is not something that has been forced by one of the coalition parties, it is a general understanding of the entire coalition that it is a strategic problem, that it is not just a matter of dignity and justice when it comes to the older generation, but that the demographic problem begins at birth or the reduction of births. So anything that solves or caresses the demographic problem is not social. Family policy is not a social policy, family policy is an investment policy in the future. All the measures involved are crucial to the future of this country. Of course, this problem also increases the departure of young people. To stop this trend, a lot of things need to be done. However, the common denominator of these measures must be some optimism, some vision for the one who is thinking about whether to go or stay to decide that there is a future in Slovenia. This cannot be done through propaganda, laws and so on, it is only possible to do so by means of actions that people feel directly. Directly when it comes to the young generation, a housing problem is crucial, and in this regard, we have in the coalition contract a number of concrete measures to address it. It should also be said that in Slovenia there is a category of people, a few hundred thousand of whom, the older generation, most of them have spent their entire lives working, have no youth and opportunities, nor would they stay at home or go abroad; they are fighting only to survive the autumn of their lives as decently as possible. From the point of view of some general or social justice, it is far the biggest blow in this society, that people who have worked for 40 years do not get at the end of the month what they have paid into the pension fund, enough money to survive with dignity; and many are dependent on their children or grandchildren if they have them. With regard to all those measures that are in the coalition contract, which measure to alleviate this problem, I think that we are all aware that these are not measures that are there because it would be some compromise in writing a coalition treaty, but because more of us, even across the borders of this coalition, realize that this is a problem. Either way, you know that's the problem. We know that it cannot be saved overnight, not within a single term, but that we are obliged to begin to address and rescue him. That we are finally obliged to establish a demographic-retirement fund, into which the state property will be transferred, as much as it remains, so that there will be nobility, that from this nobility a generation of dividends will have created this property; and that the payment of pensions will not in the future be exclusively the cost of living part of the generation that is still employed. There are reserves here and we need to be organised in a direction to make use of these reserves. In these debates, as far as demographic problems are concerned, it is often heard that, because if there are not enough births at home, there is immigration and migration around Europe, there are countries that have doubled or even tripled the population in a few decades, while Europe is shrinking, that is how we will solve this problem. Here I point out that this is a great illusion. It's part of the truth, of course. The history of humanity is also the history of immigration and immigration, but it ended in a positive outcome only where integration took place in addition to immigration. But integration can occur when it comes to the bearable situation between those who come, and those who are the bearers of a culture in which those who come are assimilated. If we look at just immigration numbers, these migratory pressures on Europe alone are not significantly greater this year, last year, not in 2015 as they have been in the last 50 years. If we look at the key European countries, say Germany, Germany has had about the same influx of migrants in the last 50 years. Nothing is essential now. The problem for Germany and for most European countries is that the number of births in these countries has decreased by three times in these 50 years and integration is simply not working anymore. And that's why it's a key issue. Not migration, but the inability of many European nations to regenerate. And here is Slovenia's regret on the side where we have a problem. It applies to Europe, and also to Slovenia, when our relatives went to Canada, America, Australia, Argentina, they adapted to the culture they came to. Usually very well, unfortunately, some of them, so that the second generation did not even speak Slovenian anymore, but integrated themselves, were not a problem for that society. They came from about the same civilizational environment. The same rules must apply to us. The one who comes to us, if we invite him, is welcome, even if he is in trouble and we help him; but he cannot expect us to accept his habits, his manner of conduct, his culture, but we rightly expect him to accept ours, so at least he will not make trouble here. Regardless of which government will be in this country or any other European country in the future, I think the devil here has taken a joke and it is clear that we will not adapt to a civilization that does not recognise equality of women, does not recognise the separation of the church from the state, does not recognize religious freedom and which criminalises same-sex relationships. And there's a lot more that could count. There are boundaries here that can't be crossed. The next such measure, which requires more restructuring, is the creation or creation of an environment for economic prosperity. Theorists can reverse things the way they want; but the fact is that throughout all human history and civilization it is known that the only economic growth, the true creation of new values, can be a permanent basis for prosperity. Everything else is a pay-per-view bluff. You can print money, only the value will eat inflation, you can make a debt, you can pay the principal and interest, you can propose certain obligations, but only a limited time. So only economic growth can be a permanent basis for prosperity. Creating an environment for economic prosperity is one of the key challenges facing the Slovenian state. This is where we can reach our goals in steps. The solutions that make sense to introduce them must be permanent. It makes no sense for a government to make a tax reform in two years, another government to come back, a third government to come back, another government to play with the tax system; the economy has only damage, even if the measures that look good, the investors do not believe them because they do not know how long they will last. Here you need permanent solutions, even if it takes a little longer to get to them. Even at the time of the establishment of the coalition treaty, there was much debate as to who is now the public - public health protector in this country. Public health and education have been developed by modern European countries precisely because of the objectives I spoke about earlier, so that the country provides the best possible starting point for young people to succeed in life and that, when it comes to health, it creates conditions that are fundamental to co-existence in society. But when we talk about public speaking, it can't be public in the sense that it's public, but if it's that bad, just that it's public, it should cost what it wants. Let it be made public that blood vessels or blood doses for transfusions will be significantly or even three times more expensive than in the neighbouring country, since in the end we will come to a public where all services of this public can be used first-class, and those on the back of the line will never come into line. And unfortunately, in some cases, we have a situation when we're close. As a result, competition is also needed in public health or in a country which has a basic public health and public education pillar. Without competition, there is no quality. From the first known Sumerian civilization throughout all mankind, this is needed. And we finally have a system like this written down in the Constitution. Slovenia will never replace public education and public health with a private system, as some other countries do, but of course it is also necessary to say that not the first or second system will not work if it is self-evident if there is no competition and there is no choice. And there is one other thing that needs to be said today in the beginning before you decide on the government. We all know that there is now a third or fourth government that will say once again that the fundamental problem that needs to be solved in Slovenia is in the health system, because there are the biggest problems that most people experience; and that the coalition stands and falls on whether it will be able to solve these problems. It is therefore necessary to say from the outset that health problems are solved, but not without the establishment of order there, and not without changing them, to build up the pay system. And this applies to some other subsystems, because since 2004 Slovenia has been part of the European space, the European Union space, the free movement of capital, goods, people and knowledge. Engineers, doctors, nurses, IT experts, top managers, researchers, researchers with achievements have opportunities to work on the European market non-discriminatoryly, wherever, many also on the world labour market. That's a fact. We can move as we want, but if the Slovenian private and public sector cannot pay these people competitive wages, they will leave. They will leave, and we will face the consequences that we are already facing, the holes will be patched up, people will come who will not be able to write to you in Slovenian, nor a test or a prescription. You don't want to, you have to face this problem and you have to solve it; and there's no solution. The solution is not beyond admitting that the public and private sectors must be competitive here. While the private sector is working hard here, the problem is that higher knowledge or higher knowledge is needed for a job, there is more to be paid here, more contributions and benefits. This, however, discourages a number of activities outside the Slovenian state. Not only individuals, highly qualified experts, are leaving abroad also companies, high-income companies. And if these companies do not have competitive conditions at home in the future, they will leave even more. Some will never leave — those bound to public tenders, to state money, and so on. They will not leave, but they will always be more expensive because they will have less and less competition, and this will also be a problem. Those who would like to be taxed as much as possible will become less and, of course, will be less and less money in the budget and in the health and pension bills. And as I said before, even if we ensure all these things, within public finances there will be a need to move forward in the future, even in terms of increasing the contribution rates for health and the care of the elderly, because statistics are inexcusable here. But this elevation will go unnoticed if we create more, if the economic growth is great, if we remove all these obstacles; if this goes down, then it will not help much. If you can have a high rate of taxation, if the base is low, you'll get a little; and if it decreases, you'll get less and less. As far as order in health and elsewhere is concerned, today technology, in particular data block chaining technology, makes it possible to significantly increase efficiency without increasing entry costs. Here digitisation is needed first where the effects are greatest. At the end of this series, a few more words on the issue of security. As Slovenia entered NATO, in a broader consensus, which went through the government majority at that time, it either shut down or froze the billboard system and introduced a professional army. She has established a professional army with a strategic voluntary reserve of at least 15,000 men. Today there are fewer than 800 people in this reserve, Slovenia does not have a functioning defence system and our president of the country every year ensures that we have an army that is unable to defend the country; this is its fundamental purpose. The primary need of Slovenia is not that we have several units that have heavy armoured personnel who can participate in NATO or peace operations; this is an addition because we are part of a collective security system. The primary task of the defence system is to defend the state. At the moment, we have a composition that is not capable of carrying out these tasks. If it goes that way, we won't even be able to bluff in two years. Therefore, at least temporary defrosting of military obligations is necessary. This does not mean that recruits will leave for NATO operations because they are not qualified to do so, it will still be the task of the professional army. However, it is a matter of laying the groundwork for the defence of the State to be able to carry out this task and that there will also be a staff basis for professional work. There is also more than two-thirds support in Slovenian public opinion polls, but it is clear that, like when Slovenia had this system as a stand-alone country, civil service will be possible for those with conscientious objection; and no one will be forced to carry weapons. In the third set, a few words can be said about the guidelines in international challenges. The Council of the European Union is also leading Slovenia for the remainder of this mandate. The European Union is now at a time whose weight is more difficult than I think we are aware of is after brexito. Brexit is a strategic disaster for the European Union, far from being a European Union. Now is simply not the time for experiments in Europe. In fact, it will take years to come, even at a time when Slovenia will have more responsibility here – if you want me to make it very simple – to defend the Treaty of Lisbon, for this basis of the European Union, which is now formally valid and which allows for the relative equality of the Member States. And here are the problems. Those who have little follow-up to this European environment, you know that pressure from major countries is increasing here to change the way the decision-making in the Union is in the direction of greater countries or majority decision-making, that these pressures are significant, that this is one of the main components of the informal proposals in this debate, which formally begins on the future of Europe; and that some of these proposals remind some of the trends in the former SFRY in the last decade of decomposition. It is in recent weeks that we are facing a problem that threatens to repeat the situation of the migration crisis in 2015. Now everyone is wondering how Europe has not taken any steps to be more prepared for this. This, by the way, is not entirely true because a number of solutions have been adopted, some unfortunately are not implemented and some are. Europe is still in a better situation than it was then; however, this package, which has been envisaged and with which the European Union would prepare itself for similar challenges to come, has not been completed. We only got partial answers. This week there are two extraordinary summits, the whole of Europe will now deal with it, all other problems will be neglected because it has slept too long. However, it must also be stressed here that the European Union is in the strategic interest of Slovenia, that it is in the strategic interest of Slovenia, that the European Union and NATO are acting in accordance with their founding objectives. The European Union is the historic and civilisational achievement of the European continent; the opportunities that Slovenia brings for this achievement are far from being exploited. Above all, the European Union is a treasurer of good practices. Anything that creaks with us, you can give me any area, in at least one Member State of the European Union, works well, it works well, it has been tested. We in Slovenia have some solutions that we can set for others. However, since we are a member of the European Union, unfortunately we have not been able to look over fences and take over many of the good practices that are available, including the advice you can get here. Or the individual or partisan interests of certain lobbyists in the country simply do not allow them to pass on to us any good practices because they feel good about themselves in this chaos and thus make sure that these fences, which we do not look at, are as high as possible. The European Union is the historic achievement of generations and also leaders with the tragic experiences of two world conflicts, both of which began on the European continent. The European Union was primarily created as a peace project, it later received an upgrade, but today this consciousness is largely lost, it is no longer a direct experience with European leaders, most of them are born into prosperity. Many times, European institutions fall into artificially created or created dilemmas, bureaucracy and privileges. For example, the adviser to the European Commission is 23 years old, without work experience, has a higher salary than the President of the Bulgarian Government, who is a member of the European Council, which is essentially a European government. And there are hundreds more of these disproportionates. These privileges generate their own way of thinking, their own connections and so on. Many times, then, this prevails over the real problems that should be solved. There's something else that matters. There is, of course, no equivalence in the European Union. A country with 400,000 inhabitants and a country with 90 million people, these two countries cannot have the same weight ever in the world, nowhere have they had it, and that is not the case in the European Union. We are not equal, we have as much weight as we can express through gross domestic product, over the number of inhabitants and so on. The impact may be greater if you are more skilled; and now we are dealing with the issue of equality. It is also a great illusion to speak of full equality in the European Union. This is just a fictitious thing, I can tell you two examples from the time we lead the European Union or later. After the departure of Great Britain, Germany and France are the central pillars of the European Union, two founding members, and I can list everything else, and I don't think it's necessary. When we presided over the European Council, we have seen from the outset how this equality works. When a smaller Member State proposed something, the European Council administration found a thousand reasons why it could not be done. They quoted me after ten articles of various contracts, why this cannot be done. I called the French President, and this afternoon everything was in accordance with European law, the same thing. They just found a way out. Depends on whether you're looking for a solution, or whether you're looking for reasons that can't be arranged. The case of Germany in 2016, at the level of the European Union, has reached a high level of agreement on the continuation of resolution or the development of a package to address future migration crises. In fact, it was only Germany, one Member State since 28. Since it was against Germany, it was also against the European Commission and there was no compromise. If it were against Slovenia, Croatia, Austria, Hungary, Portugal, there would be another meeting of the European Council and this country would have agreed to compromise in any way if everyone else had agreed. However, despite the issue of equality, equality within the European Union is an option; it is not a fact; it is an option. That's the only option you have to fight. It must be selected and, therefore, I spoke earlier about the importance of the Treaty of Lisbon, because this Treaty in the right sense also gives smaller Member States the opportunity to choose equality, especially if they are capable enough and capable of connecting with those with similar interests. Before this mid-term, of course, there are also challenges that Mr Šarec might not have faced when he resigned. Already, we have been informed that GDP growth was less than two percent in the last quarter of last year. Slovenia needs almost two percent economic growth in order to generate enough money to pay debts, the annual tranche of interest in particular. Up to about two percent we can't invest anything, it's all about the debts we've collected. Then there's this horrifying epidemic or the coronary pandemic. The negative economic consequences cannot be assessed. I'm sure we can control the epidemic. If you look back, for the last 20 years, something like this appears every four years, a very interesting case. But the price is unknown as it has always been; and it is a risk. I must say that in recent days I have also received warnings from previous government circles that there is a few hundred million holes in the budgets adopted this year and next year. It is said that resources are foreseen which are not real; and they are expenditure that is not properly estimated. There's a lot of risk here, and very few lobsters, if I say so in the known jargon. But whatever these unpredictable things are, these problems can be solved. The fact is that Slovenia can do much more with its potential than is currently being demonstrated. We're far below what we can do. In 2008, Slovenia reached 91% of the European average. But this was a year, one mandate, when the then government of 53 system laws was aligned within the framework of the development partnership with the opposition in this National Assembly and they received 60 or 70 votes, a two-thirds majority is said. At that time we had 8 billion sovereign debt, today we have 32, and we are well below 20%. But in order to do more, it is necessary to meet some of the conditions, especially the two are important. First, there is a need for responsible governance with the country, which means a lot, including not spending millions on studies on the long-term care of the elderly and not building any home for the elderly. Our relatives, who need decent care in the autumn of their lives, have nothing to do with these studies. And it takes cooperation, not exclusion. The same vats are needed for all, without dividing into first- and second-class. Today, if these two conditions were met, over all the decades since Slovenia was created, more potentials could be exploited, wages in Slovenia could be at least a quarter higher, the same pension; unfortunately this was not the case. But we all know there's nothing we can do to change back, so we're offering a hand of cooperation. And all those who, after the last government crisis, which, by the way, did not cause the opposition in any way, have already accepted this hand, are essentially repeating the magnitude of the steps taken by those who, before the historic plebiscite vote of the Slovenians for independent Slovenia in 1990, helped to build the then unity of the nation without which you today would have been decided in another capital. Our door to cooperation for the common good remains open to everyone else. We don't rule anyone out. We do not promise miracles, but we guarantee work and effort for the common good. We have only one country, uniquely in the world by its natural beauty, even after the hardness of its life; so let our Slovenia be our common home and country for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for presenting the government's programming design. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Maša Kociper, first of all, you have the floor on behalf of the Party of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! King's Gambit – a chess opening where a white player sacrifices a farmer in exchange for the rapid development of the game. Today, on a mastery level, we see it rarely, since it is generally true that the white man does not benefit from the expected benefits. With this chess parable, the event in recent weeks has been described by one of our party's members. Marjan Sarec – the white man, he said, sacrificed the government, in this case the farmer, in exchange for the swift early elections. Because he reckoned that the black, this is John Janša, would not be in a favourable position enough to play the game. But John Janša turned out to be a better chess player, especially with more patience and nerves. In fact, after the withdrawal of the Left, he could only wait for the white to make a mistake; and he did. President Sarec resigned without reaching an agreement on early elections with a sufficiently large number of parliamentary parties; and resigned without at least trying to consolidate his coalition and replace the lost ministers. He laid down the king and the black man entered the game. After the two-year budget has been adopted, the largest in the history of our country, and after some of the most urgent laws that our people urgently need have been drawn up to solve some of the biggest problems: the Long-Terms Act, the State Guarantee Scheme for Youth and Prefectures, the Housing Act, the Comprehensive Law on the Transfer of Additional Insurance and the New Electoral Law, which would finally allow voters to have more influence on the election of Members. With his resignation, the President of the Government practically stopped the adoption of all these laws and put the country in great political instability. The result of all of this is that after only a year and a half today, we will again decide on the new Prime Minister of the Government and again on the next government under the leadership of Janez Janša. And even though these days all the objections and criticisms are against SMC and Desus, who have broken the word to their constituents and will therefore be tried by their constituents, it is necessary to say that the problems have begun much earlier. The right-wing government is also the responsibility of the left-wing party. First, after the elections, she did not want to be a left-wing party to the left-handed government, and very soon, after only a year, she withdrew the votes. Then both Levica and LMŠ both refused to discuss the so-called project government, which would allow a central coalition without SDS, which many are so afraid of. Then, when the announcement of the right - centred government came true, they called for protests in Levica. Apparently, some forget that the government does not confirm itself on the street, but in Parliament; and that the government needs enough votes to succeed. If we were aware of this, today we would have a left-wing government with 52 votes, for example, for the new early elections, probably fourth in a row, so that we could be back in opposition after them. I'm afraid we won't have a left-handed government for a long time. But in the Sab party, we have always been convinced that the left- centred government is the most suitable for Slovenia, and we have been working on this all the time. Yes, we were once small when we demanded that the promises we all made together in the coalition treaty be fulfilled in the manner and within the time limits agreed upon. However, despite this persistence, we have always been a strong and reliable partner of this coalition, which is confirmed by all our votes. Never, never has the party Sab been guilty of not having any law adopted in this national assembly. Therefore, in the SAB we regret the end of the left-wing government. Even in a minority government, many things could be done, and more, of course, if the government had enough votes with the help of the Left. Regardless of the short term, we are also proud of a lot of things in the SAB. The adopted novelties of pension legislation represent the fruits of our efforts and long-standing efforts to gradually improve the status of pensioners, introduces a percentage increase in the rate of pensions to 63.5, which was our promise to the electorate. Unfortunately, our proposal and the amendment to shorten the transitional period to 3 years have not been adopted. The current pensioners will also be better off in many ways. They'll get the highest pension matching in the last ten years. Their pensions will rise by more than 7% and their average pension will be higher by more than 50 euros after two years for each pensioner with an average pension. There are currently the largest number of pensioners under the brink of poverty, so efforts to improve their situation must not die. As of 1 July, pensioners and persons over 65 years of age and disabled persons will also receive free cross-border passenger transport, and the same will apply to athletes and disabled students. One of the measures to promote sustainable mobility and environmental protection is the introduction of a single ticket. Just a quick word about our ministries. As regards the work of the Ministry of Infrastructure, no one can deny it, the Ministry has done the most during this period. The activities carried out in connection with the construction of the second track have significantly accelerated. Undoubtedly, it is a chapter of the coalition contract, which is being implemented as quickly as possible. By obtaining the EIB loan, we have significantly increased the possibility that the second track will be financed without the cooperation of the Länder countries, of course if that is the case. Another important law, the so-called Guarantee Act, which will enable more favourable financing of the second track, the 3rd Development Axis, and accelerate the implementation of both major projects, was also confirmed with broad support in the National Assembly. Losing words, why they're important, probably doesn't make sense. They also worked very well and efficiently on both other ministries. With Minister Česnik with repatriation, an important project, a sensitive process and pilot project that will bring 50 relatives from Venezuela back to Slovenia, and at the Government of the Republic of Slovenia’s Development and European Cohesion Policy Service, they have solved a number of accumulated problems, solved large funds – €180 million and reinstated and put the e-MA information system into operation. But enough about what's done. Look ahead, first and foremost, the SAB party remains loyal to its pre-election promises and does not intend to support the new government under the leadership of Janez Janša. A year and a half ago, we thought and talked exactly as we thought and talked today. Our commitments to the electorate remain the same, we are a central socio-liberal party that respects the values of European liberalism and the social state. A highly developed social state is a valuable asset that must somehow not be sacrificed. Of course, not everything is ideal in our country, I agree with the future president, the changes to better are necessary, necessary and must always be supported; but our party does not want to give up fundamental values. These are quality and free public education, accessible and effective public health, better pensions, decent age, respect for democracy and human rights, consistent respect for the division of power and respect for democratic institutions, including courts, equality for all citizens regardless of their nationality, religion or sexual orientation. As socio-liberal, we are aware that money does not grow in a tree and that the budget is not a bottomless pit, so we support innovation, development, a successful economy and an entrepreneurial initiative. At the same time, we do not believe in an all-powerful market, but in social justice, which says that the state must have a legitimate role in addressing certain issues and protecting the weak. We believe in individual freedom and ability, but at the same time we believe that the welfare of an individual must be in harmony with the welfare of the community. These are the values that we stand for and that we believe that they could not be sufficiently realized in the new government. To date, not only is Janez Janša the problem not only in him, but the actions of the entire SDS party confirm this. Their policy over all these years has been too destructive, impatient and exclusive, increasing division among people. This policy shows the tendencies of authoritarianism and nationalism and the desire to subordinate democratic institutions. It sometimes supports the uncritical privatisation of businesses, the decommissioning of public education and public health, through social networks and favoured media, helping to spread the rhetoric of intolerance, false news, conspiracy theories and discredits. It does not respect the principle of power-sharing, does not respect democratic processes and state institutions and exerts pressure on the judiciary and the prosecution. Sometimes the methods of nationalistic populism are used and climate change is denied. As such, it increases the division of people, reduces people's confidence in politics and, in our view, cannot guarantee political stability and adequate development. Therefore, we cannot support today's mandate-holder and government. And even though our party has such an attitude that the government will not support it, and has accepted such decisions all the time, our client bodies have also received such conclusions, a party and individual Members have received them in the last days of various discredits and innuendo. They didn't help with the dementia or the request for repairs. Therefore, the Members themselves have proposed that we do not take the votes today. You will be able to look for extra votes with someone else, and the SAB is leaving for the opposition. To the opposition, where we will constructively support proposals that will be good, because we know that the government also has tasks that cannot be avoided. In this respect, however, our expectations will be high and difficult, even though the Slovenian Democratic Party has promised in recent years. We expect rapid and effective measures, particularly when we are talking about improving the health system and long-term care, addressing the housing problems of young people and young people, protecting the environment and large infrastructure projects. We will also closely monitor the implementation of those commitments under the new coalition contract, which foresee major changes and high financial consequences, such as the gradual introduction of recruitment, the additional hospital absence, the raising of the averages for municipalities and the introduction of a universal child allowance. We all know that the budget works according to the principle of scale – if you add somewhere, you have to take somewhere else. Where and how the government will take John Janša, we will pay special attention to this. Let me finish. In the past year and a half, we did good at the SAB party and did many things that we promised the voters. Even after a year and a half, we respect our commitments and keep our words. After the resignation of Prime Minister Marjan Sarec, we offered the possibility of a project government, but we did not run into enough attention. All that has happened in the coming weeks has led to the formation of another government, under the leadership of John Janša. And this government is perfectly legal and legitimate. In this sense, we are all obliged to give her a chance together. In the SAB party, once again, we will not support the new Prime Minister out of everything he has said. Nevertheless, we wish him successful and good work for the benefit of our citizens! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Franc Jurša, who will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u6	Vice President, thank you for your word. A nice greeting to all the fellow workers and, of course, others who are in this hall! The media-coloured tour of the search for the new 14th President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is slowly ending. After us is a busy month – from the moment of the surprising resignation of Prime Minister Marjan Sarca to discussions on the possibility of creating a new coalition and the final signing of a new coalition treaty. The Desus Party shall approach discussions with all those who have shown an interest in the composition of the new government. Why were we surprised at Mr. Sharp's resignation? Although there have been considerable occasional turbulence within the previous coalition, together we have managed to achieve the adoption of strategic documents for the normal functioning of the country. We must not forget the budget and the law on the implementation of the budget for 2020 and 2021. We have found agreement on the validation of responsible state functions and together we have overcome many other challenges. It was not easy; there were talks, there were negotiations, but for the good of the country and for the better strength of the coalition we have always taken the majority together. However, we learned about the withdrawal of Marjan Sarca from the media first. It wasn't exactly a nice thank you for an 18-month job together, which we would expect in a way. I believe that, as Prime Minister of the Government, Marjan Sarec has had a very difficult task, especially because of the minority coalition, but the management of such apparatus can never be easy. Someone who reasonably enters such a situation must be aware of the responsibilities and responsibilities that come upon him. The President of the Government shall be responsible to all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It is fair to make a decision that you are not able to answer the spirit of time, but to claim that another has caused a step down is the exercise of responsibility; therefore, such an action is immature and unrealistic toward yourself, as well as to the electorates and voters and all of us who sit in this room. We're here from people and people. If we had heard in the previous negotiations that Desus was significantly less present in the media than others, this time we were given much more attention. Every Member of the Desus Group is aware of the responsibility of the city of the Member, and not only of the rights that the election brings, we are even less guided by the desire for power. This can quickly be proved by the fact that we have never voted in a populist manner, but we have always reasoned with our votes. The content and results are those that are important, not just performances. The Desus Group has been committed to improving the situation of older and socially weaker groups throughout its activities. Therefore, at the time of the 13th government's composition in the coalition agreement, we have written down the main points relating to the rights of the elderly and some have even been able to realize in this period. Our starting points and guidelines were clear for this time. It is important for us that the minimum pension for the full pension period approaches the threshold of poverty to also regulate widows and farmers' pensions. The time component with regard to the increase in the dose percentage to 63.5 is to be reduced and achieved within four years. Nor should we forget the elimination of the injustices caused by the lack of reconciliation of pensions and the completion of the home for the elderly. Desus has been advocating the establishment of a demographic fund for many years and the adoption of a necessary long-term supply law. We believe it's finally the right time to accept without a fig in your pocket. A major step will be taken by the establishment of a government demography office based in Maribor, which will coordinate all measures to improve demographic imagery in Slovenia. We also advocate accessible and quality public health, together we will bite into the sour apple of waiting species with the inclusion of all human resources. We will check the health check and undertake the transformation of supplementary health insurance without reducing the rights arising from this address. We must not forget the young people who face enormous housing shortages. For them, as the source of this country's power, we need to renovate housing policy, we need to increase the housing fund so that young people and their families can afford these apartments and create a rich and stable future. Demographic trends in Slovenia are moving towards older and older societies. We must unconditionally take into account the departure of young hopes from and from the country and their families and make it possible for their families to live better. All of this we have been able to incorporate into the new coalition treaty. There are still many very difficult tasks ahead of us in the remainder of our term of office, but with the understanding and common strength of all parliamentary parties, we could succeed. To conclude, Desus does not have ideological guidelines and backgrounds. Our members come from socially diverse spheres that are aware of history but are not used for political accounting. It's time to overcome this kind of discredit. If we are unable to talk about content, things will remain unresolved. Therefore, I hope and believe that the ideologies of separation will not find room in our hall. I think it is time to focus on building a better future for all citizens and citizens. In the Desus Group we will support Janez Ivan Janša as the mandate holder of the 14th Slovenian government. I wish you, Mr Janša, much happiness and wise decisions!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by Mr Dušan Šiško. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. All in attendance, all in attendance! Mr Janša's government will certainly be confirmed and this government will need to be co-operated. The Slovenian national party has always been a constructive opposition that supported the good proposals of any government and was against those proposals that were detrimental to the Slovenian state and citizens. In the same way, the Slovenian National Party will act as a constructive opposition in the future. As many decisions have been made in the past that have caused and caused great damage to certain coalition and quasi-coalic parties, we are confident that the work of the new government will not run out. Not particularly if, for the benefit of honest, hardworking and normally thinking citizens, they want to correct the senseless and wrong decisions of former decision makers. We hope or are confident that such emissions will not occur under the feet of the Prime Minister in the new government as they have been in the current term. We are confident that this coalition will work more firmly, because it is those parties who have been largely responsible for the collapse of the coalition so far that they are exempted from leadership positions. As part of its programme, the Slovenian national party will also submit proposals to the new government to address certain issues. The former government, mainly due to internal divisiveness, did not have a hearing for these proposals. However, the Slovenian National Party will be extremely loud when it assesses that any decision taken by the government coalition is contrary to the benefits of the Slovenian State. However, there are certain guidelines for a new coalition in line with the Slovenian National Party programme, such as the introduction of compulsory military service, which the Slovenian National Party has in its programme all the time. In this regard, we have also sent a written question to the Government in this mandate. Other directions are close to us, as in the Slovenian National Party we know and appreciate our two talks – Without work she did not eat; who does not work should not eat. Based on these, Slovenian descent has survived to this day. As before, the Slovenian National Party will follow the functioning of the future government and will be explicitly critical of all procedures. It will be pleased to support the solutions that will support the development of the Slovenian country, its re-integration into the European and global map, from which we have been driven out by the crazy, unimaginable and foolish moves of the former Foreign Minister Cerar. It is in the field of external matters that we expect the Prime Minister, as he has already announced, to withdraw from the arbitration ruling; in this way, on the basis of internationally relevant legal facts, he will launch new talks in favour of our country. By the way, the Slovenian National Party has repeatedly warned the current government and its ministers, especially Bratuškovo, that unresolved issues with Croats regarding nuclear power could become a bigger problem than failed arbitration. We also remind your government of the problem of nuclear waste that has been dragging for 40 years and that we can take care of the Slovenian part in time and that Croatians will continue to be in the yard of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Our concern is confirmed by the recent statement by the representative of the Croatian Foreign Ministry on state television. There even their well-known analyst Puhovski estimated that in relations with Slovenia the problem is greater than the arbitration agreement of the depositors of the Ljubljana Bank and the storage of waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The State Secretary with the Slovenian surname Metelko stated that the waste management in Kršek is not in any hurry and that Croatia has plenty of time; which is not true. This beautifully shows how serious the issue is being raised by Croats as co-owners of a nuclear power plant. But we know that the temporary warehouse in the nuclear power plant is already full and that the landfills in Kršek could not be built within ten years, since we have a local agreement; unfortunately. As we see from the coalition agreement on page 4 that the possibility of building another reactor in Krška is also part of the new government programme, we note that all open issues regarding the existing one must be resolved before that. The issue of the use of nuclear energy is also linked to the area of various forms of security. One of them is certainly the physical protection of infrastructure facilities of national importance, which are relatively more important in the Posavij region than anywhere else in Slovenia. Let me remind you that there are also five hydroelectric power plants with infestations, a thermal power plant, a military airport, the largest railway border crossing, one of the largest road crossings, more than 60 kilometres of Schengen border, and we could list. However, we do not have the Police Administration, which was taken away from us by the left government of Borut Pahor in 2011 under the pretext of rationalisation. He moved her to New Town, which we have nothing to do with. Yes, we have something in common – Roma. If, for the time being, problems related to the security of strategic facilities in our region are only theoretical in nature, then, particularly in recent times, we have a lot of problems with Roma. I will not list all of them, but, honourable Members, I do not know where we are. In the karst health center, the director will order armored vests and helmets for various attacks by the Roma. It's just one case. Let us stop blinding our eyes to these problems and attacking us, those we warn; above all, let us ensure that all citizens are truly equal before the law. As you are aware, Posavij was under the greatest impact of migrants in 2015, when thousands and thousands were falling through our places. At that time, we were able to make sure that the great crowd moved north. Our people fear that if there is a new refugee wave that we have heard about these days, our southern border will certainly be very exposed. That is why we call on the government and everyone competent not to wait, but to prepare ourselves as much as possible for this situation. In view of all of the above, the new government is expected to re-examine the return of the Police Administration to Krška and also elsewhere in Slovenia if the needs for this are identified. In the Slovenian National Party, we also expect that under the new government, things that have so far been swept under the carpet: order will be made in the Slovenian judiciary: that the anti-Slovenian-oriented NGOs will be shut down a pipe from which tens and tens of millions are constantly drained; that Slovenian culture and cultural heritage will be given the place it is going; that the prize will not be given to the nursing of dogs, but to the artists who deserve it; that the protection of the cultural heritage under the watchful eye of the right Minister of Culture, who will not allow intentional, on the basis of ignorance of the foundation and on the basis of an ignorant attitude towards his own work and position, and thus contribute to the destruction of the Slovenian cultural heritage. Yeah, the work of the new government won't run out. There will also be few obstacles, as certain segments of public administration will resist everything and will not allow for changes, since they consider their positions untouchable. We expect the new government to take action to reorganise ministries, as this is the only way to remove the unworkable surpluses of employees from the positions they hold where they are well paid; at least their earnings are questionable if they are not nothing at all. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that the new government will be confirmed, and once again we stress that our principled decision stands for us to be a constructive opposition. That's exactly why I'm glad you wrote in the coalition agreement on page 7 to raise the average to the congregations. At the same time, I suggest that you give the municipalities an amount of 5 million, as long as the early elections are costing them, which obviously will not be necessary at this time. This will bring you closer to the amount that you have also pointed out to me when you monitor the budget that I have helped to depreciate the congregations. I'd be happy if you could fix this damage to us as soon as possible. This and all your other promises will be closely monitored and, as we have done so far with the previous government, we will also support the realization of our promises. That is why we want the Prime Minister to have a good choice of ministers who will think about the welfare of our common country and our country, not their own benefits and preferences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u9	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Felice Žiža has the floor on behalf of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u10	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished candidate for President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša. Egregio Presidente della Camera di Stato, Grazie per la password. Egregi deputati, egregio candidato per la presidenza del Governo della Repubblica di Slovenia, Signor Janez Janša! Tiste Hölgyim és Uraim! In opening, I would like to point out that we cannot be an integral part of the coalition by reason of our mission to the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities, which is also correct. Cooperation with the Government is, of course, desirable and necessary to ensure and realize the protection of indigenous national communities and their members in the Republic of Slovenia. When appointing a mandate-holder, it is important that his approach to addressing the pressing systemic and substantive issues of the State and society is properly addressed, in particular in terms of the rule of law, democracy, social sensitivity, economic efficiency and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. For the Group of Italian and Hungarian National Communities, its approach to the preservation and development of the protection of indigenous national communities and its willingness to address current issues in this area is particularly important. My colleague, Ference Horváth, is of the opinion that, in the case of Mr Janez Janš's proposal, these conditions are largely met as a mandate holder. This means that the candidate for Prime Minister of the Government will today receive our support. We expect the mandate holder to provide guidance on the possible new government coalition on the implementation of the protection of the rights of indigenous national communities. This content, the issues should therefore be adequately designed and incorporated into the cooperation agreement with the Coalition Treaty. Our most important condition for support to all mandate holders and later to the Government is to take into account the important requirements of indigenous national communities based on the provisions of the Constitution, individual acts, decisions of the Constitutional Court, generally applicable principles of international law, ratified international treaties on the protection of indigenous national minorities and minority languages and laws. During our expectations, we stress the importance of maintaining the national and cultural identity of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities and the specificity of the national mixed area, and it is therefore essential that the level of situation and specific rights of indigenous national communities so far be the basis for their further development. The creation of a system of economic foundations of these communities is very important for their existence and development, as well as for the development of the municipalities and regions in which they live; and also for cross-border cooperation. For both communities, it is also very important to upgrade the bilingual operation of the state administration and municipal administrations, the judiciary, the other public sector, the holders of public powers and other persons of public law in the area where the said national communities live. It is fundamental to ensure adequate conditions and adequate systemic budgetary funding for a stable and development-oriented operation and autonomy of the institutions of indigenous national communities implementing programmes in the fields of education, education, culture, information, science, economy and other important areas. This creates appropriate conditions for the implementation of policies relating to the Italian and Hungarian national communities with a view to ensuring the appropriate social, political and economic situation of indigenous national communities in Slovenia. In the Italian and Hungarian Group of National Communities, we expect that the future government for the development of the existing protection of indigenous national communities and their members will also specify the real shift in the implementation of the legislative provisions governing the area of national communities and the supervision of the implementation of those laws and policies; and in this way, it has reduced the wide gap between regulatory regulation and the implementation of the provisions in practice. Supervisory mechanisms also testify to this. On the basis of what we have said with Mr Ference Horvát, we will support the candidate for the term of office of Mr Janez Janša. From here on and for the rest of the mandate, we have a demanding and responsible work and constructive cooperation. But we wish the Mandathar great happiness and success! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u11	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Daniel Krivec, you have the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the rest of you are here! In 2018 we had early parliamentary elections in Slovenia. A relative victory and 25 seats were won by the Slovenian Democratic Party; almost half of the fewer, 13 seats were sent, and the second most powerful party was Lista Marjan Sarca. In line with the long-standing parliamentary tradition and taking into account the electoral result, we in the Slovenian Democratic Party were expected, when the results were announced, to form a majority coalition after the mandate to form a government by the President of the State of Borut Pahor. Despite numerous declarations of exclusion and non-cooperation with Janez Janša during the pre-election period, the Slovenian Democratic Party invited all parliamentary parties to the talks at that time. Despite the plausible SDS victory in the elections, the mandate was then given to Marjan Šarc, who provided sufficient votes to confirm. In addition, he formed a minority government of six parties in which the party Levica had a special, supra-cooperational status. We already made it clear in the SDS that we will not support minority governments. We have stressed that we will support good marriage proposals that will go towards increasing the welfare of citizens and citizens and which will also be harmonised. Let me stress that in the SDS, we have not tried anything to stop the legal and legitimate process of setting up the government of Marjan Sarca. We have made it clear, however, that the Sharcé minority government for Slovenia will be full of lost opportunities. Sadly, this proved to be true. Instead of addressing the key problems in society, they have only increased in all areas and the coalition has mostly dealt with itself and with the staffing of state or state-affiliated companies. That he was not immune to the recruitment of Marjan Sarec himself or his cabinet, he showed up at the time of his employment in Owl. At the resignation of Prime Minister Marjan Šarc, we were also faced with the possibility of systematically and illegally listening to individual politicians, following them, secretly photographing them, and then putting pressure on them on the basis of the data collected. I believe that the situation will now stabilise because we have before us the proposal to appoint Mr Janez Janša as Prime Minister of the Government, and before us is the possibility of forming a majority and strong coalition that will lead Slovenia towards prosperity for all. The proposal for the appointment of Janez Janša as Prime Minister of the Government is signed by 47 Members and Members from the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary groups, the Modern Centre Party, the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. The appointment of Mr Janša as Prime Minister of the Government, as we have heard, is also undermined by the representative of the Hungarian and Italian communities. The proposal for appointment is legitimate, transparent and based on the confirmed election outcome of the 2018 elections. The proposal is also based on the will of Members and Members who express their free will in the democratic system. Therefore, as offensive and unacceptable, we consider the advance discreditation of individual Members and Members, who have even been identified as traitors by some who radically express their views. Non-democratically, all the threats posed by the parties' representatives, individual Members and their family members in the process of forming the new coalition. Various harsh pressures are also unacceptable, which in some cases have already been limited to crimes that should be investigated by the police. However, some of the terrible practices we have witnessed in the last month cannot and will not stop us or frighten us. We are aware that these practices are carried out primarily by those who fear for their own privileges and interests. Let me remind you that in the coalition contract, the parties SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus have put everything that unites and unites us as a nation. The parties to the new coalition will cooperate on the basis of their willingness to work for the common good. Challenges that are not defined in more detail in the coalition contract itself will be addressed by negotiating and seeking consensus. However, as in the 2004-2008 mandate, we will also invite the opposition in the National Assembly and the Member of both nationalities to participate in the development of systemic solutions. We have always been inclusive and patient in the SDS, although we have seen many things. In front of us, we have justice and prosperity for all. And when we have before us the interests of all Slovenes and Slovenes – those who live in our homeland, our surrogate kinsmen and those who live in the world – we know that there is no division between ours and yours. We know that we will work together for the common good, for all of us. This was also recognized by economists, craftsmen, mayors, employers, who have also publicly supported the formation of a emerging coalition in the last month. While their public support may have been overhearing in the wider media area, it is certainly very important, since it means that most of our society also agrees with the fundamental objectives of the coalition agreement and the functioning of coalition partners. And what are the foundations of the coalition contract and the functioning of coalition partners? These are: a fair and efficient functioning of the country and legal security; a sustainable and coherent regional development; a balance between the social state and a more competitive economy; a stable system of pension and health insurance based on the principle of equity, transparency and intergenerational solidarity; a favourable environment for cultural growth and strengthening the Slovenian and European identity; an improvement in the conditions for the creation and development of families; a safe, healthy and friendly living environment; and a quality, effective and fair management of the country in accordance with the principle that the State and all public sector institutions serve as a service to citizens and the economy and do not constitute an obstacle to them. Of course, the future coalition will work towards the successful implementation of Slovenia in the world and will follow national objectives and the common European foreign and security policy. We are aware of the challenge ahead of us, this is the Presidency of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union, which will once again be able to put Slovenia on the map of the international community as a credible and credible partner who is able to carry out difficult tasks and, above all, to keep the word given. All too often in recent years, the Slovenian Left Authority simply did not keep the promises made to our external partners. In the Coalition Treaty for Slovenia, there is no division of responsibility by sector. This is the task of the future President of the Government and the agreement of all coalition partners. We are aware that the future Prime Minister of the Government and the entire government are facing hard work and that there will be no light burdens on this path. But we are prepared to do so because we believe in cooperation and integration because we believe in dialogue. I am confident that we will live up to the expectations of people who believe in Slovenia as a house of righteousness for all. Of course, most of the responsibility lies with the signatories. If the contract is implemented, we'll all succeed. In this case, Slovenia and especially its people will be the winner. In addition to the content, of course, it is also important who will execute this content. The government, led by Mr Janez Janša in 2004-2008, was the only government with the same partners as it started, and this mandate has been completed, and it has been successful. This is demonstrated by the figures, the results, and this is also recognised by our political opponents, and this is particularly recognised by the international environment. Janez Janša was also a very successful President of the Council of the European Union in 2008. Slovenia has received much praise in the international environment for the well-established Presidency of the European Union. He also successfully tackled the crisis in 2012, successfully negotiated with coalition partners and managed to reconcile all open issues. This was the most important step that allows for today's vote on the new Prime Minister of the Government. All these circumstances give positive signals to citizens and to domestic and international markets. If more support is available to them, these signals will be even stronger. Our future, our position in the international public, also our ratings, depends to the greatest extent on them, and as a result our people's standards. Dear colleagues, I probably do not need to stress in particular that Mr Janez Janša enjoys the full support of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. However, I believe that together we will all be able to manage enough strength, wisdom and understanding to agree on the most important decisions on which our future depends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Brane Golubovic has the floor on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u14	Dear colleagues and colleagues, a respected candidate for the Prime Minister of the Government! In recent weeks, we have seen the formation of a new government, the right-centre, the governments of the four parties, which are publicly linked by a fairly general coalition contract, in a number of objectives is also very attractive; but this likeness is neither financially assessed nor defined nor defined where the necessary funds will be obtained. It is a purely normal democratic process of forming a new government. Whether this government will be credible, trustworthy, will show its actions and actions. In the end, when they get a chance to do so, the voters will say so, theirs will be final. In the LMŠ Group we will in a cultural, democratic and reasoned manner oppose the election of the candidate for Prime Minister of the Government. We will all vote against, we will all take the votes, all 13 will vote against. In his speech, he could turn to the current rhetoric of the candidate and his client, to their way of speaking and writing accounts with everything and everything. But I'm not going to go down to that level, because I wouldn't say anything new about it, and it's not my way or the way of the List of Marjan Sarcas. We have entered state policy with one goal: to work for the benefit of people and the country. We believed and believe today that in democracy different opinions, including ideologies, must, if you want, be able to face the benefits of people and the state. So we could look at all sides and participate in the coalition to offer New Slovenia and Levica, both of us had constructive negotiations where we closed most of the substantive issues. We have managed to form a minority government that, without integration, cooperation and acceptance of compromises, could not even create, let alone work. And we've achieved a lot, the results are. Last December, three months ago, Slovenia's progress was also recognised by all three key global credit rating agencies. The future ahead of us can be painted as uncertain, or as a future that we will have to adapt to. The Council and Slovenia face various climate, demographic, economic and social challenges and related urgent changes in society. We are aware of this, and we are also aware that denial, creating emergency situations and fears, and burdening with the past and internal or external enemies cannot solve the challenges ahead. We need to adapt to them as a country with knowledge and optimism, together, without subjugation and underestimation, and with the inclusion of all our potentials. Your Honor, the government is leaving the country in good condition, even better than it has been given. There are many good things in Slovenia today. We can be proud of the homeland and the achievements of our people: but yes, many challenges still lie ahead. It is also true that we have failed to complete a number of things and that we have also made a mistake, yes. Nevertheless, we have laid many foundations on which the new government will be able to build if it accepts the fact that the government has been doing well, that everything is not bad, that the previous government has done, and that there is no need to do everything from nothing. For example, in health and health insurance laws, on long-term care, on the media, on housing policy for young people, on research and knowledge, on environmental protection. Here the foundations are laid, here the laws are largely prepared. Two homes for the elderly – Vrtojba and Osilnica – you have written in a coalition contract. All you need is a little effort to give up your purpose. The bank’s claim management company still has a number of secluded land to start building apartments for young people, homes for elderly people and protected dwellings. How can we get this thing into motion is clear. From the dead, major infrastructure projects have moved from the dead, which, with other public investments in the coming years, can form the basis for maintaining stable economic growth. These are the achievements of the government in leaving, in which five partners participated. These are the achievements of the government, which was based on cooperation, programme and respect; not on the basis of fear. In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we are aware that without all the partners in the government, we can do nothing. What we have done is done together; we respect and appreciate it. Many were also involved by opposition parties, one more, the other less, including the SDS in a number of marriage proposals. Unfortunately, that armor is lost. Why? Much has been said about this, since two chairs are hard to sit on. After our resignation we expected elections, we were not afraid because the country is in good shape, the budgets for 2020 and 2021 are adopted, the state systems are functioning. But the election didn't happen, so let me get back to the front. In the List of Marjan Šarc, we are still convinced that the foundations for the development of the state and society are clear: cooperation, integration, equality, confronting ideas. But all of this is possible only through cultural and patient dialogue and with respect for everyone and everyone without subordination. In his call, the President of the Republic pointed out that dialogue and cooperation without any exclusion were necessary. He is right if we are all aware of this and realize that there are limits to acceptable. Honest cooperation cannot grow in the field, plagued by the hummus of constant contempt and depravity, discredit and lies, hatred and insult, creating emergency situations and neglect of fear; even more. When we monitor certain actions and read the entries of the candidate or his Members, this cooperation is often unacceptable for us. Such non-participation is not an exclusion, but a civilisation standard, a responsibility to the state and people. Movements are necessary, first in the head. The first is a shift towards respect, not just at the declaration level, but on actions. I'm talking about respect for everyone, even if it's our competitors. The government is capable of doing this, is it a candidate for the Prime Minister of the Government? We're on the Marjan Sharca list. Will the candidate for President of the Government know and see beyond his convictions? Despite continuing emphasis on the importance of cooperation and integration, will he continue to divide into ours and yours and with disrespect for those who think differently? However, we also allow the possibility of today's performance that the candidate for Prime Minister will change, but in the light of the experience of recent years, we rightly doubt that someone can become wise, patient, respectful, fair and inclusive overnight. But we will not judge in advance; we will judge in deeds and deeds and experiences. As I have already mentioned, the coalition treaty is very general. We could've signed a lot of things, too. You have thus copied a few measures from our coalition treaty, but the context is also important. It is not just for whom; but also for whose account, it is always necessary to look at the whole and not the individual measure. In individual legislative projects, which will take into account the wider picture and be beneficial to the people and the country, we will cooperate with our values and programming points; if we hear, we will also support it. When I spoke about the whole, this is also what the candidate for Prime Minister of the Government said that every measure should be seen as a whole, let me say that if we lower taxes to encourage economic growth, we must be aware that we are running out of money for health, education, culture and the like. That's why we always have to look at the whole thing. All the laws proposed by this government will be seen as a whole, not as a single tree, but as a whole forest. But I'd like to say some things in advance. We will not be included in the demolition of state institutions, as in the LMŠ we are aware that all its institutions are important for the functioning of a democratic state. We insist that it is the policy that must defend these institutions, whether they agree with all their actions and decisions or not. Disruption of the reputation and trust in the Constitutional Court, the police, the military, the judiciary, the Court of Auditors, the Information Officer, the Ombudsman, the Intelligence Service, health care, education, all of this is the overthrow of the state, is the disrespect of our republic, democratic regulation. A lack of respect that is passed on to people from politics or politicians. We won't be around if you barter with human rights, with media independence and the judiciary. We will not be included if you endanger public goods, public services and nature. We will not be included if you weaken the Slovenian economy, the social state or the stability of public finances. Or if I say otherwise. All accessible and quality public health and education, social justice and intergenerational solidarity, the care of pensioners and young people, the care of the environment, climate and sustainable development, respect for diversity and human dignity, ensuring security, the care of science, research and development, the rule of law and the independence of state institutions, strengthening democracy and social dialogue in the country, the independence of the media and the autonomy of universities, tolerance, respect, inclusion – these are fundamental values that we advocate and will not give up for any price. On the contrary, we will defend them and strengthen them regardless of the government. The party that would adhere to these principles is not as good today as it was a year and a half ago, so the government in our eyes is afraid of elections and political opportunism. We have a clear conscience in the List of Marjan Šarc; we are consistent, we remain faithful to our values and programming points, and this will be the basis for our action in the future, even in the opposition. And that. For us, threats and insults are unacceptable and unacceptable at the expense of all those who join the new coalition. We respect the decision of two of our current coalition partners, even though it is difficult to understand; we know that their decision to participate in the new government is legitimate. Or is it also responsible, state-efficient and fair to the electorate, and these are no longer questions for us, but for them. Let me finally borrow the words of the Scottish liberal democrat: If you lose power in the fight for values, you will remain self-respect and hope that you will succeed next time. But if you lose your values in the fight for power, there's nothing left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honourable candidate for Prime Minister Janez Janša, colleague and colleague! After a year and a half, we have a new proposal on the table for a mandate holder. You won't believe it. In the last ten years, Slovenia has already won the fifth government. It seems that political crises are not what they are and are not over. The beginning of these could, of course, be attributed to a period of difficult financial and economic situation from ten years ago. Let us remember the nine percent decline in economic growth. At the time, it was difficult to follow the legitimate expectations of people after solving their hardships, all the problems in the economy, bankruptcy and even the very difficult system in society that I am not even talking about the rules in the European Union, as the candidate for Prime Minister has already said today. In particular, expectations were high when, as Slovenia, we have been very successful since our independence. Slovenia was a success story. Despite many internal political divisions between the traditional left and the right, at least from the outside, we acted unitedly and at least with some minimum political understanding. We had some common goals. Unfortunately, the crisis has changed that. She exposed the vulnerability of a policy that still feels today. There is a great deal left of untrust, disappointment, and more and more people's doubts. Doubts people that policy instead of answers produces the most problems, divisions, contentions and problems. This also shows, my dears, in several attempts overnight by political parties who are all with very identical passwords – new, better, ethical, moral; and you could also list – acted as if they had all the solutions on their hands. With all the new faces and expectations, instead of the promised people in our country, we have always had the same disappointment. Moreover, this fragmentation of political space has begun to penetrate all times of society. Ours, yours, for and against, with or without you – this dualism has long exceeded the left and right if you want Janša and Antijanša too. It has become a source, this is my view, of the most persistent problems of Slovenian politics. The fact is, our political system demands coalition governments. That's a fact, and thank God it is. But it also needs a strong opposition, which not only will it oppose everything and everyone who will be in the government, but it will also set up a mirror for every government and, with arguments, draw attention to mistakes and mishaps and also support all those measures that are good for our citizens and citizens. All those who are sitting here today in this Chamber, regardless of what political option we are on and which political option we belong to, are responsible for following this command. Let no one among us think that he can escape responsibility, whether he is in opposition or in coalition, especially not in the political situation we are now in. In fact, citizens and citizens rightly expect solutions to the challenges encountered and to their problems. These today's and all the votes, all the other sessions, extraordinary sessions, emergency sessions, are not, my dears, intended for us, politicians, but are aimed primarily at people or their problems that have accumulated through, if you will, the decades of our common country. Every slander, every hostility on the right, every argument on the left, the already mentioned political dualism on ours or yours without any substantive arguments is and remains a mockery of all those waiting today for two, three or four years for an operation, the elderly who are struggling to survive with a pension, not to say that they cannot afford at home today for the elderly, young people who are paying fat rents, that I am not talking about buying apartments, and could also mention. Therefore, I really suggest that instead of betting and political calculations, we simply begin to insert content. Before the vote on the new term of office under the same composition of the National Assembly, no one shall knock on the chest, not the future coalition, nor the opposition. Or even those who have been in opposition all the time, even though they have had the opportunity to do something good in the government, the opposition is, of course, an appropriate protection that you simply do not want or hope for at the government dike. But, Your Honor, all that's been going on for the last month, why we're at the door of the new government, I don't think there's any need to explain in particular. After all, history will tell its own story. For the Social Democrats, the opposition will not be a safe haven, but an opportunity, frankly, that after many years we can channel all our forces into our own programme, originally such as, without excessive compromises, which, for the sake of a variety of coalition readings, are often extremely tiring, and, as has often proved, unfortunately not feasible. The opposition is also responsible for us Social Democrats to admit to the coalition that it works well, and to be loud when measures weaken the foundations of our society, Slovenia as a social and legal country where human rights are the greatest postulate of democracy. This must not become the ideology of the left or right. We know, however, that experience shows that everything in Slovenia can be ideological because it seeks an appropriate excuse when it is unable to face the real problems of people. Hatred, intolerance and exclusion are then the world's three esteemed politicians, leading to even greater problems. All of this has been too much in the past years and even in this mandate of the National Assembly. But we cannot attribute this to everyone in the same way, nor do I want this speaker here today, nor do I see the point of cutting a cake of guilt in this place and accusing ourselves of what someone has done right and what someone has done wrong. In the end, only people, citizens and citizens are called for this. We wanted the Social Democrats, in the given situation it is best to put scissors and canvas in the hands of voters and voters, because once again, they are the only ones who have legitimacy and have the power to say what they think about us, about political parties, and who enjoys their trust. Unfortunately, for various reasons, this did not happen. However, I am sure that our citizens and citizens will be even more careful than they have been so far and even more thorough than they have been following up on the political floor and, with their notes, they will fill the records of each of the political parties and the account for all of us and our past and further work will be evaluated in the next national elections. We have no fear of elections, because we are and will continue to work in accordance with our programme, and above all with our values. We want and, above all, believe in an inclusive, progressive, solidarity and just society. A society that is able to face demographic and environmental challenges and to maintain a system where public health has priority, where we have public education where there is access to youth housing, where we have solidarity for the elderly and more other things. There are many challenges ahead of the new government in all these areas. I therefore wish that, despite this not-too-optimist traveller, the emerging government would not run out of power for content and, above all, for solutions for our people. For however we look, whether we want to admit it or not, the government will eventually be, except for all the political signs, the Slovenian government, our government. But we did not – what I said before – approach the emerging government, thank God we have enough historical memory, there are many reasons, actions from the past speak for themselves. However, I must say that today we will not support Mr Janez Janša as a mandate holder, but we want the next government to do our best for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Igor Zorčič will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Respectable colleagues and colleagues, viewers and viewers! A year and a half ago, in the SMC Group, we voted on the candidate for the first Prime Minister of the Government of this call by Mr Marjan Sarc and unanimously supported him with all the votes of the Group of Members. We believed that he would successfully and continuously lead a minority coalition of five left-centred parties, supported by Levi, as well as by other parties. The mandate was then supported by 55 members, i.e. members from the opposition, which promised a stable work of the Government and a new coalition throughout the four-year mandate period. The government, which closes its work, has had every opportunity to justify its trust in the full mandate with its plans implemented and with tangible benefits for all citizens and citizens. She had the best passenger in the public cash register. It had, for many before it, no outstanding media support and almost a preference for the majority or a very important part of the opinion-makers. She had everything we could ever want in politics in our work. Mr Šarec stressed in his election that they would count the actions and not the words. Today, it is clear that more words and fewer acts and that there are still unfinished laws on the table, very well-planned and semi-formed measures. SMC was a stable and constructive member of the coalition. Our people in office in the government, SMC ministers have faithfully done their job, we have always been a strong and stable member, who has never and never diminished the functioning of a coalition or government. We have always cooperated, joined together and have been indispensable in making important decisions for the country of Slovenia and citizens and citizens. In no way did we weaken the actions of the government, the coalition or the President of the Government. We have been constructively involved in the implementation of certain projects, including those that have been in our programme, in the adoption of laws and other regulations, not least the adoption of a budget that is a milestone in the operation of each coalition and provides further support for the work of each government and its President. As a result, we were extremely surprised when, within a short time after the adoption of the record budget in the history of Slovenia, during the period of over-average economic growth and a stable political situation without prior consultation with the coalition partners on further work and cooperation, without previous discussions on possible participation in or after the new elections, Prime Minister Marjan Sarec resigned, saying that he could no longer work and that it was too difficult to seek support in any vote for him. With our resignation, Mr Šarec has begun to call all coalition partners through the media to early elections as the only legitimate, legal and fair option in the given situation. So after the resignation that was apparently due to the resignation of his closest associates, people in office, secretaries in the cabinet, including the Minister of Finance, Bianca resigned from the Minister of Health, and because someone apparently advised him or perhaps decided to do so himself at a time when he and his client LMŠ had a lot of public support and media support. It is therefore a decision from its own political account, not what is necessary or what is saving, as some wish to describe the resignation of the Prime Minister of the Government. And for what price? For the sake of not being able to form a new majority left-wing coalition after the new elections, as Levica, as everyone knows, would not have gone with any party, would not have gone and would not have gone to any government and would not have had enough votes with other parties to form a new government. At the time of the resignation, the President of the Government, Mr Šarec, with a fig in his pocket, offered to participate in the SMC, or rather, to individuals of the SMC, who were supposed to choose them themselves and with the help of their authorities in the LMŠ party, in order to run on his list and not on the common list of both parties, as it later turned out. Cooperation between these parties in the early elections, as in the last European elections, was not in the plan of the Prime Minister. It was obviously just a public and constituency show, voters and SMC sympathizers, who had been falsely influenced by the hope of cooperation and had already tried to prevent cooperation, communication, and negotiation of the SMC with other parties on a possible new coalition, as announced by SMC President Zdravko Počvalšek. Is this really the fairest thing for coalition partners, for voters and voters who voted in the parties' elections and their candidates for a four-year term and not for a one-and-a-half-year term? Is it fair for elected politicians to stop trying after just a year and a half because it is too hard for them to give up? And when you refer to a public opinion that comes from surveys, is it fair that the will of hundreds of thousands of voters is driven by a few hundred polls? Judge for yourself. In the SMC in 2018 we have indeed stated that we are not going to the government with Janez Janša and his SDS. And that's what we've been sticking to. We did not go to that government that was supposed to arise from the outcome of the elections at the time. At that time, we supported and believed in a stable minority government under the leadership of Marjan Sarca, but today it is more than obvious that the lack of necessary dialogue within the coalition and the awareness of the results of public opinion polls have led to a breach of relations between some coalition partners who are not yet capable of creative talks. According to some estimates, at least 50 members of the National Assembly, who could form a left-centre coalition, are obviously unable to do so because of the early functioning of the previous coalition. Yesterday, Mr. Židan from the SD party sent a letter to some partners of the former coalition stating: “Democratic supervision”, after the election of the new government, “will be better and more effective if opposition parties are able to cooperate and together play the role we have in parliamentary democracy.” The letter was addressed to President LMŠ Marjan Šarc, coordinator of the Left Luki Mesc and President of the SAB Alenka Bratušek. On the initiative, Mr Marjan Sarec replied: "Of course, I welcome the SD party's initiative to join the opposition, I ask that we wait so long as we also become the opposition and the current opposition is the government." Pretty eloquent, you're welcome. The parties predict the possibility of cooperation, i.e. the parties who are potential candidates for the formation of a left-wing coalition, predict the possibility of cooperation, but only if and when they will be in the opposition. It was precisely because of such a situation that I had to describe that we started to talk in the SMC in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia about the possibility of creating a new, different government, which is also the responsibility of politicians. Not like some other parties, which – even compete – put themselves in line, the possibility of cooperation is rejected and promoted as an essential element of their operation. Yes, we started talking to Desus, New Slovenia and SDS about the possibility of creating a new government in accordance with the existing constitutional regime. This is not cooperation against the will of the electorate and the electorate, and against their will there are more political games and accounts that lead to resignations and governmentlessness. The modern centre remains a party that advocates and protects social liberal values, rule of law, democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms. None of the parties to the new coalition, i.e. the SDS and its President, Janez Janša, has placed us on the condition that we have to adopt their position, their ideology, nor would we go to any new government under such conditions. On the contrary, the coalition agreement is based exclusively on joint projects, on substantive solutions for the benefit of all people, on the cooperation and integration of four different parties for the purpose of implementing good joint projects and individual client projects, and not on any ideological integration. The SMC remains in its ideology, in its values and in its programme, the latter, from 2018 to 2022, which we will try to achieve in a certain or most part in this government, which is also enshrined in the Coalition Treaty. That is why we have gone into the formation of a new government and it is completely inappropriate, unfair, inappropriate and uncultured defamation of the Party of the modern centre, our names, the names of Members, the new party president, representatives of the authorities of the party, members, members who supported this new cooperation. We've heard a lot of signs. If I avoid those who may be heard on the street, let me list some who have appeared in some so-called mainstream media that are supposed to warn of fear before I know what authoritarian government and violation of human rights. The identification of politicians with third-rate policies, with historical fraud, incompetents and comparing politicians with adjectives that were characteristic of World War II and after World War II, seems extremely inappropriate and a departure from what those who say all of this should be fighting for. Last but not least, the designation of our client as a coalition of hatred and thus the promotion and protection of intolerance, the non-cooperation with different thinkers, the separation of right and wrong, the elimination, the hate speech that we advocate and have always advocated. In short, these names, like those that will not lead to what some are supposed to fight for, i.e. to preserve freedom and democratic decision-making, but, on the contrary, to protect and incite hatred and, lastly, to do some of the extraordinary situations that many of those who speak these words, today, even in the case of the coronavirus, are alerting. Today we will vote for the new Prime Minister of the SMC of nine out of ten, all in our conscience, with our heads and all these Members, we have always been responsible and good for Slovenia and for all its citizens and citizens, regardless of their political or other affiliations. We want and support ourselves, it is our duty to justify the high expectations that are now widely shared by the public, our membership, our supporters, our sympathizers as a result of also inaccurate information and the public discredits described. On the other hand, I must confess to you that some of our former members who are in the public eye with public letters as insulted, the most loud and allegedly guilty spouses have stepped out of the party because they have not received any position or because their opinion has not been fully taken into account in the democratic party. We believe that there is a need to overcome certain divisions, with a clear aim to work for the benefit of our countries, citizens and citizens. It's time for clear goals and hard work. Members of the SMC, regardless of what some of you will be able to read below, but not to say in the last week in some media, we remain the same. We do not change the political color, nor do we change the personality that some suggest. The SMC Party remains the same left-wing party, a modern party, an honorary party, if I refer to some of the phrases spoken yesterday, a party of social liberal values that is on the difficult political path of cooperation and coordination with new parties. Members of the SMC we have worked, worked and will continue to work for the benefit of all citizens and citizens, in the interests of our Slovenia, who must be prepared for the challenges of the future. Let me mention here the EU Presidency, which is also one of those important events that has driven us to consider whether we can afford another election to postpone the emergence of a new government maybe for six months or a year. And we will continue to have to work for our position in the European space, also through this Presidency, so that it will be better for everyone. We believe that working in the new government will be even harder than it was in the previous minority government, as some events of the previous week suggest, but if we want to prove that our intentions are really good, that we have decided to work together to achieve and realize good things, goals and projects for the benefit of all, then we will work with even greater efforts. As you are aware of the position of our President, we are not going back, not left, not right, but forward, for our Slovenia, for our citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The word is given by Luke the Moon, the Group of the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u20	Thank you and a nice hello! Your Honor! Today we decide whether to grant Janez Janša a new, yet third term for the composition of the government. I can say in advance that this will be a civilisational disaster, but we're on our way. If we were to conclude only under the coalition contract that we read, we could conclude that the one that the middle five made up with NSI in the summer of 2018 is similar, that is, before Levi entered into the coalition negotiations. Both said that they were for public health, but public health would be able to save the public in such a way as to allow private people access to public money. Both of them would increase military funding, for NATO to 2% of GDP, thereby clearly demonstrating their priorities, i.e. twice as much as this country is committed to culture, or twice as much as it is dedicated to development and research. It is common for both of them to promise higher pensions, higher averages for municipalities and more housing, but they cannot tell how they will finance it. Both speak of social justice, but it would be achieved by tax exemptions for the richest and better paid. And they're both talking about the right people in the right places, but when it comes to the right places, our people are important in the right places. The middle and right also become similar in some other sense, techniques and rhetoric. One of the most prominent secretaries of the former government, Damir Črnčec, learned his techniques elsewhere than Janša. And if you listened last week to the meeting of the Committee on Culture on the political staffing of SD Minister Zoran Poznič, you could not have listened to the rhetoric that journalist Špela Kožar pointed out yesterday. I quote: “Minister of Culture Zoran Poznic, who is also responsible for the media, has repeatedly discredited our work in Parliament in the recent Committee on Culture,” that is, the work of journalists, “in fact everything that has been said in the media. And so he faked the information himself.” He continues: "What happened at the recent meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Culture was a complete shock to me despite my long-standing monitoring of cultural policy. Social Democrats, from members of the board to the minister himself, discredited everyone, journalists, directors, even invited to the meeting. Manever, for which it would be possible for another party to do so, to go to the trenches.” You could say the same thing about a lot of other things that she's been doing in the last eight years is called the left middle. Yes, in 2012 we went to the trenches for fiscal austerity measures, bad banks, privatisations launched by the Janša government. But when we gained new power, the government of Alenka Bratusek, these policies continued. And they continued in the next two governments. The fiscal rule was enshrined by Cerar's government in the constitution, the last two banks sold the last, Sharcheva, government. In a sense, therefore, today we are not deciding on a government that is supposed to be a total contradiction to the government of the Sharčeva Five or the previous two governments of Mir Cerar or Alenka Bratušek, but rather to the continuity. As in the column “Left” and the left before the elections 2018, where he supported the client Levica as the only alternative, wrote Slavoj Žižek: “Who or what is “left” with us?” In doing so, he recalled an old joke from the Soviet Union with Radio Yerevan, where all questions were answered by listeners “in principle hold this, but. ” [[…]] For example, the listener Radio Yerevan asked: “Is it true that the Jew Rabinovich hit the lottery car?” Radio Yerevan replied: “In principle this is true, but it was not a new car, but an old bike. Besides, he didn't hit him on the lottery, but they stole him from outside the house." And Žižek adds: “It is not difficult to figure out how Radio Yerevan would answer the question: We have a strong left-wing block in Slovenia? “In principle, this is true, but this centre block does not consider the rights of the poorest and most vulnerable, and is complex in the ongoing corruption affairs and obediently implements the orders of the international financial institutions.” He adds: “What helps them in this is the pathetic reference to NOB and partisanism, when it serves only as a fig leaf to cover their own misery.” This contribution ended with the conclusion that by sliding the left middle towards the right, we have thus reached the lowest point of our political life. The relationship between the so-called left center block and Janševa SDS can be illustrated by the illustration of the hands that draw each other, the only outside of this picture is, as Žižek, Levica found. In short, the issue we are going to witness today when Desus and SMC support Janez Janša as mandate-holder, and it is not irrelevant that SMC is a party that has received 36% support in the 2014 elections alone. This edition is not a unique event, but a long-standing process of sliding, lowering standards, melting. As Luke Lisjak Gabrielčič found: Janša did not have to move in the middle, like Mohamed to the mountain, only had to wait for the middle to move towards him. However, there are some important differences that have led to the conditional support of Charcé’s government, but we could never have supported Janševa. If we can at least hope to stop the erosion of the standards and to the right, as you can see, from failing, there is no hope for the emerging government. And if we have been able to monitor the playing of democratic rules and techniques in the middle, this is a systematic practice for Janša's client for many years. If they don't like the results of the elections, they'll say they're stolen, if they don't like the opinion of the journalist, they'll refer it to a mole or a cookie card, if they don't agree with the court's judgment, they'll call it guilty, if they don't like media coverage, they'll set up their own media, if they don't like the truth, they'll spread a lie without reservations. Janša and SDS understand authority completely, as the Stalinists understood: all the levers of power must be held in their hands, who is not with us, against us who dare to criticize us is an enemy of the people. My acquaintance said funnyly: “For Janša the authority begins with the first letter in the alphabet.” Although in recent years the SDS has addressed the second-rate, deprived and Janša's party in the same saga, it has spread hatred against those deprived, minorities, the poor, the lazy, the foreigners, the other thinkers, the people with the wrong shade of sex or the wrong religion. Of course, this hatred is tactical. They try to convince the majority of the population that it is deprived, second-rate. Let's see if SDS and Janez Janša policies have benefited the majority population in Slovenia, or if they make it less secondary. Three cases. First time. In 2005, when the SDS was in power, they tried to set the example of Bulgaria, Latvia, Slovakia to introduce a single tax rate, the most unjust tax regime you can imagine that would destroy the Slovenian social state. I repeat, which would destroy the Slovenian social state because there would be no more money for it. Is this a policy for second-raters? Another time. During the first Janša government between 2004 and 2008, the external debt of the country, i.e. debt of households, banks, businesses and countries, increased by more than EUR 30 billion. The crisis that has inherited this government has forced the country to pay this debt to a greater extent with public money. So why is the country now 30 billion in debt? You will find a good part of the interviews in the first and second of Janša's government, again in favour of second-raters. When Janša was in power in 2012, he introduced the infamous Zujf, with which they carved pensions, health care, universities, education, police, and the country into another recession. Before that, there were signs of growth. And when Janez Janša spoke in his opening speech today about a generation of pensioners who do not have youth and opportunities before him, he forgot to say that because of the austerity measures that the SDS and its two governments are most responsible for, the average pensioner is still short of 5.7% of the pension, which is 400 euros per year for the average pension. You can remember so many pensioners the next time they refer to you. Is all of this in favor of second-raters or second-raters all this time throwing sand in their eyes and their goals elsewhere? John Janša said that he was a fighter against the tycoons, but when he ascended to power, the tycoons experienced their golden age after 2004. The SDS was established as the anti-sex elite set up by the LDS, but when they came to power, it turned out that their goal was essentially to replace them with ours – otherwise it was said that everything they wanted was what the LDS had read for themselves. And they repeated the exercise back in 2012, and this time they took the whole country hostage. Opponents in the public sector went with Zujf, enemies in the economy by creating emergency situations, declaring the near bankruptcy of the country and calling the troika after the verified Margaret Thatcher formula – the economy is just a means. And if I paraphrase the second part, the goal is to concrete power. Although John Janša is a staunch rebel, he has been adept at changing political colors throughout his life. He was a communist and then an anti-communist. When he joined Pučnik's party, he performed as a social democrat when he took power with it, he carried out a neoliberal coup, twice. He said he was against corruption, but his associates in the case of Patrio in Austria are still sitting in jail. He became a human rights fighter, and today they are on the right-wing first human rights fighter in the country. Janez Janša is just where the possibilities for power are maximized – you know, for some, the authority begins with the first letter in the alphabet. The ones you intend to crown today, of course, you know this, because you yourself have expressed similar criticisms for a number of years and I do not believe that you are so stupid that you do not know that you are putting him in power at an extremely dangerous time, at a time of panic – from the west of Italy comes to us a coronavirus, and from the east photos of the biblical scenes of refugees, which, of course, will be called an invasion of the Islamic hordes in the SDS. According to an old Maoist winged woman, John Janša could say: Under the warm skies, chaos reigns, and the situation is excellent. If this man is capable of anything, it is certainly the creation of emergency situations and the sowing of panic. Today, we are not only voting on whether Janez Janša should be the third president of the government, we are deciding whether to give him a third term for trying to deal with prostitutes, biscuits, mistrials, the truth. While Mr. Zdravko Restoršek on Twitter is calm that this time everything will be different, as he says, this will not be a coalition of one party – as if it had ever been – and not a coalition of one president – as if it had ever been – but a coalition government that will deal with consensus and respect for all four partners. Yeah. At the same time, its future president writes about his opponents as cannibals, and in the newspaper Dnevnik, for the time being, mocks by interfering with their editorial policies. As early as Thursday, we will consider an attempt to establish a recruitment system, where we will certainly hear as a reason for this establishment that our youth should be called, armed with rifles and sent to the border over the refugees who are coming. Threat Directors fell before you settled him. And just wait until he sets up his Minister for Culture – oh, how naively you have left this town – and the labelling of the SDS party of the dislike of civil society and NGOs for foreign agents, the persecution of disobedient journalists, the conversion of the media into their own trumpets. Everything under control, SMC, you got it under control? I understand that you feel that way today, but believe me, you are far from the first liberals in the world with such a false belief. But you, each of you, will be personally responsible for putting Slovenia in danger of going on the path of Hungarian slip into dictatorship. You're taking personal responsibility for this today. Alone and colleagues in Levica do not want to live in fear of panic, stalkers, witch hunts. We also do not want to live in a world of forced choice between Janša or the environment that has become more and more similar to him. There will be, clearly, all nine votes against the mandate of the government of Janez Janša, but if he does get the mandate, we must cut off those who will now be in the opposition those vicious spells that draw each other's hands. Therefore, our only objective should not be to oppose Janša, an even more important objective is to build an alternative that is worthy of its name. For the government of Janez Janša must be different on the basis of the programme, technology and rhetoric, a government that will not be considered a prey, but a government that will serve it; which will not see public institutions and state-owned enterprises as a political workforce but as its wealth and potential; which will not frighten its people into creating a sense of false security; which will not protect and turn against each other, deprived and second-class. Instead, it will fight for the welfare of all — young people who do not have housing, pensioners who are plunged into poverty, low - wage workers, protagonists who are forced to live from hand to mouth, all who do not find work, and all who are not offered the opportunity of this society to fully develop its potential. We need to get a government that will not deny the climate crisis, as Janša's client does, but who will not only accept the declarations, as the middle does, but will move from words to actions to preserve this planet for generations to come. Although today is a difficult day for such an announcement, I promise in this place that we will be a tough opposition in Levica and will continue to fight more decisively from this day forward to the future of democratic and ecological socialism.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u22	Thank you for your input, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, distinguished candidate for President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, distinguished citizens and citizens! In the current 8th meeting of the National Assembly, we will elect the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the second time today and the 14th Slovenian Government. Why the second time in this reference? Because the 13th Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Sarec, unexpectedly resigned. When the National Assembly adopted the country's budget for this year and the following year last fall, it seemed that the coalition would abstain from regular elections only from its own human and financial interests. From the unambitious budget documents and development documents and the lack of will and knowledge for the necessary changes in most social subsystems, we have announced in New Slovenia that the government will choose the comfort and conduct only ongoing business. Shortly after joining the Jubilee holiday year 2020, in which we will mark important 30-year-olds of key events from the creation of our own, both dear Slovenia, 8 April – the first free and democratic elections, 16 May – the oath of Demos and Peterlet's government, 23 December – the plebiscite or the conclusion of the people about Slovenia's independence, on 27 January, with the resignation of Mr Marjan Šarc, the government will fall. Slovenia has fallen into a political crisis. I leave the details of the reasons for the resignation to political analysts. In particular, two findings are made. First, Mariana Sharca was abandoned by his closest associates, the pillars on which he stood alone. Secondly, the President of the Government, Mr Sarec, resigned without any prior discussion with the coalition partners. Moreover, at a press conference with coalition partners, he deals harshly. The conclusion is simple — a true, genuine partnership. In this case, artificial intelligence would learn a lot. But I believe it's natural, too. Why am I saying this? Because the Slovenian policy in this case really needs to learn something if it really wants to work for the good, for the well-being of all people. If there is no genuine relationship between coalition partners – we have seen – trust and cooperation, which, of course, requires patience and mutual respect, then the collapse of the coalition is inevitable. The destruction of political parties is the destruction of democracy, because it is not without a multilateral system. We believe that there have been many people in the government of Marjan Šarc, especially in the larger ministerial teams and in the bodies in the composition, who have made great efforts and worked heartily for the welfare of Slovenia. All of this, on behalf of New Slovenia, I sincerely thank you today. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a fresh start ahead of us. A new hope for Slovenia. Well, all those who have concerns about how we will finance our commitment, which we have entered into a coalition agreement, to calm down – yes, the budget balance will be. Our participation in the coalition is conditional on our content, with our core programme, which we modernised and adopted at the November Congress and with the election programme for the 2018 national elections. Our ambition is, the ambition of New Slovenia is to put Slovenia on a map of the 15 most successful countries in the world by quality of life. The United Nations Development Report shows that Slovenia took 24th place among 189 countries in 2019. The goal is achievable. We believe, believe and truly believe in the extraordinary potentials of Slovenia, in the extraordinary potentials of its citizens. The New Slovenia Council, the highest body between the two congresses, unanimously supported the proposal for a coalition treaty. Of course, the coalition treaty is not just our program. The coalition agreement has been coordinated by four rather different political partners, passengers and contains our common points. We used to talk, and we could talk. And we knew how to make a deal, and we'll know how to make a deal. Negotiating solutions for the welfare of Slovenia is a key task of every policy. Our policy, the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats – is based on very clear values. For a value-based policy, he is the most important person with personal rights and duties. We make our decisions for the good of the people to make it possible for us to live a decent, free, and fulfilling life. Politics and political order must serve man, not the other way around. Our fundamental values stem from the Christian concept of man and the world — every human being is unique, unrepeatable, and has an untouchable dignity. Our policy is based on the values derived from the Jewish-Kerish tradition, and they have also been designed by European humanism and enlightenment. These values give us a fundamental ethical and political orientation. We want to build the country on values such as, for the first time, human dignity, second time, freedom, third time, justice and fourth time, security, as well as on the principles of equality, subsidiarity, solidarity and responsibility. Human dignity is the highest value from which human rights have evolved. Man’s dignity is attributed to value and right to respect because he is human. People are born free and equal. The human dignity of all people is the same and does not depend on personal characteristics, abilities, achievements and successes, including not gender, colour, nationality, age, religious or political beliefs, sexual orientation, disability, health or ability to work, success, failure or the opinions of others. Human dignity is untouchable and to the same extent belongs to all men. Every man is unique and untouchable during all periods of his life. Freedom. Human beings are born free and have the right to self-determination. Everyone is free and responsible for the development of their lives. In order for a person to develop freely, we must ensure justice and security. Freedom needs the political order that serves it. Such a political order must have a fundamental right in its constitution, which is not mutually exclusive, but mutually conditional and complementary. The real realization of these rights requires responsible citizens. Freedom is realized in a practical life through responsibility and responsibility. Citizens must enjoy freedom within their family, neighbourhood, working environment, leisure time, local communities and countries. We have to be responsible, we have to vote and we have to make decisions. Responsibility is our political task. The individual's responsibility stems from the idea of political responsibility towards the whole society. We advocate a policy based on values and responsibilities. Justice. Justice is that everyone gets what belongs to him. Justice requires that we deal with the same things and that things are different, we treat them differently. The core of justice is the dignity of all people and the equal right to freedom. In the rule of law, justice means that laws apply to all equally. Security. Human dignity, freedom and justice can only be guaranteed in a country that is safe. Not only are we talking about physical safety but we feel secure when we are satisfied with our life. Solidarity and subsidiarity are essential in ensuring satisfaction in a free and fair society. Solidarity enables us to be safe when we cannot help ourselves. However, subsidiarity allows us to be safe from unnecessary interference in our lives. Solidarity is a mechanism that protects the weakest in our society. Solidarity has necessarily complemented self-responsibility. Even those who, despite all efforts, cannot take care of themselves have the right to social security and a decent life in which they make their own decisions. Social security is a solidarity task of society, which must be addressed both by citizens and by the state. The humanity of a society is shown as solidarity within the family, the neighborhood and society themselves. The country must be, ladies and gentlemen, as a guardian, if you want as a keeper that we can create citizens in peace, or as a night watcher that people can rest in peace. Besides, we don't need a country. Ladies and gentlemen, the highest value of every man is certainly health. According to the National Institute of Public Health, there are about 209,000 people waiting for a review or a health service today. It may not be a problem in itself. But the problem is that 75,000 people are waiting over the limit. These are data from the National Institute for Public Health, which is not run by Nova Slovenija. Thank God the country of Slovenia is rich enough to ensure that health services are accessible to all. We can't treat people with ideology. Our ideology is the text of the oath of ministers, which reads: “I swear that I will respect constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.” Even for the elderly and disadvantaged citizens, given the dignity of the man I spoke about before, we cannot worry about ideology. Let me remind you, the last home for the elderly was built by the State when the social sector was run by Nova Slovenije in 2008. Social. In Novi Slovenija we see socialally as a strong network that captures people when they fall. And if he gets sick, he falls if he loses his income, he loses his job. Moreover, the best social policy is that policy that enables the economy to flourish and consequently jobs. Every healthy person is most happy if he can develop all his intellectual, entrepreneurial and other potentials. And when we can create such an environment, the country of Slovenia will be stronger. There were times when only corporations competed with each other in a competitive fight. Today, countries are competing. And we must be aware of this, this must be known by Slovenian policy. Ladies and gentlemen, New Slovenia has made great efforts, especially in the field of health, to bring together a lot of knowledge, experience and good practices at home and abroad. In the parliamentary procedure, there is a bill that would shorten waiting types, which is certainly our common problem. The waiting types are a problem, and we probably all agree here in this room. Talks with some parliamentary groups, and above all the new coalition, are the reasons why we will withdraw the bill from the parliamentary procedure and propose a new, improved law to shorten the waiting types – and we firmly believe in this. This will be our first contribution to the realization of our common commitments, where we have written down the reduction of waiting types very high on the scale. We, Nova Slovenija, are for a robust public health system, and this will not happen unless I eliminate many anomalies in the health system if we do not eliminate the disorder and corruption as well as the balance sheet. We have exceptional doctors, exceptional staff, extraordinary nurses, but politics must establish such a system that will also be effective. We have all the potential. We are aware that this emerging government will have just one year of effective time to carry out its commitments. Very little time. The Presidency of the Council of the European Union is a major asset, and at the same time the opportunity to raise the specific weight of the Republic of Slovenia in the 30th year of its existence in the institutions of the European Union, with regard to NATO and other international organisations, from the ground to the level we deserve from Slovenia and Slovenia. Despite the relatively short time available, we must at least begin to prepare a modern, friendly, healthy, life-saving and creative environment for our children and children. We are suffocating in traffic — what about work from home? We are suffocating in bureaucratic obstacles — what about the use of artificial intelligence in bureaucratic procedures? Come on, let's ask our cousin Slovenian Professor Leskovec at Stanford University if that's possible. This Professor, a young professor, is investigating the use of artificial intelligence in trials. If it is possible in the trials, we are firmly convinced that it can also be done in bureaucratic processes. We get the last artificial intelligence center in Slovenia at the Institute of Joseph Stefan. A green agreement is before us for Europe. It's high time we took advantage of all the natural resources we have. Well, thank God Slovenian politics on the Committee on Agriculture last year also discovered warm water, I mean geothermalism. Perhaps so late because the greatest geothermal potentials are right in the far east of our country. And it is true, many times from Ljubljana to our extreme regions we do not see – we need to fix this. That is why we speak and have also written in the coalition treaty that we will strive for the decentralisation of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of New Slovenia today, we will follow the decisions of our party's Council and we will contribute all seven votes to the President of the Government for a proposal for a mandate. I wish the new Slovenian government a lot of wise decisions, I guarantee the support of the New Slovenia Group and good luck, Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Before receiving the word of Dr. Anže Logar and Mr. Lidija Dijak Mirnik, the candidate for Prime Minister Janez Janša asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u24	Thank you very much again for your word. I think it would be appropriate for me to answer or comment on some of the questions raised in the views of the parliamentary groups. I would focus in particular on what has been specifically asked or claimed and requires clarification. As far as the financial valuation of the coalition agreement is concerned. Of course, this financial valuation exists, because if we did not financially evaluate the proposals, then we could sign the coalition contract the other day. On the first day, everyone would bring their priorities, put them together, and we'd just sign it. I am afraid that several coalitions have so far come into existence in this way, and neither has any completed its mandate. Of course, all the measures proposed have been financially evaluated. We know what needs to be done to make it happen, we've also done calculations on where the reserves are. These things are, I'll say, no doubt. What is not doubtless, however, is a real state. We have based this evaluation on the only real basis, the official basis that exists, these are the budgets adopted for this year and for the following year. We believed that the situation was what was voted here by the majority of the coalition so far. It is only in the last week that we have received from governmental species, from previous government types, that we have warned that the situation is not such that in both budgets, not together, but in each individual, it is a multi-hundred-million-dollar hole. I will listen very closely to the outgoing Minister of Finance, and also to the one who will succeed him, probably to clear up these matters. Because if the situation is not the same as the only real official basis we have at our disposal, then, of course, the revaluation will also have to be done. We all know what the limits are, we have commitments in the constitution, we have commitments in the Stability and Growth Pact. Slovenia is also under the scrutiny of the European Commission when it comes to meeting these criteria, because we are also part of the euro area, not least, and there is no joke here. What the representative has said so far is the largest government delegation group, how the situation is good, how everything has blossomed and so on – look, thank God it is. If this record budget is made on a real basis and the situation is even better than what is shown there, I will be the first to congratulate the outgoing government and thank her for what she has done. However, I am concerned that it is not the same and that many of the risks that could be anticipated have not been foreseen. You can't do all of them, but some of them do. Nevertheless, the priorities enshrined in the Coalition Treaty are more or less ranked, remain and will have to be implemented according to the reality. I believe that there are also some of the reserves that I spoke about earlier when I spoke about de-de-irocratisation and de-centralisation. It has been said that the government, which is leaving or who has left alone, does not admit that it has done something good here. I just confessed something, if that's true. The second thing not only us but also the Slovenian economy recognises the outgoing government is that mini tax reform. Especially when we talked to economists, more than 500 of them spoke at these meetings — there was no tycoon in addition to, by the way, all the economists who did what they had to do with their own desires — they all admitted to the government the relief of the prizes when it was possible for employees to pay their 13th salary or whatever, they said extra money without being taxed. And they were able to pay them not 500 euros, but a thousand euros, because they did not have to pay enormous contributions. By the way, the same purpose is also expressed in the new coalition treaty and this purpose has now been attacked. When talking about the tax burden on the prizes, they are not intended to be directors' awards, it is suggested that each entrepreneur can pay the prizes to employees without being overtaxed or taxed to a certain extent, as has been partly so far in view of the measure that everyone has praised. To boast that the government has left in its drawers full of drafts and bills, “we have laws” – see, in the drawers of our parliamentary group I think that there are about 240 laws, and not laws that someone would write that would involve their wishes or lobbying interests, but those are laws that have already gone through parliamentary procedure here at least once. They were already grinding, and since we were most of the time preparing these laws in the opposition, these laws did not receive majority support. We know that the marriage you have in your drawer doesn't mean anything. Marriage is something when it's adopted in this procedure. Nevertheless, all that has been prepared so far in terms of legislation, especially at these neural points, we will examine carefully, examine what is right, what is in line with the coalition treaty and with these objectives. As has already been said, even from the future opposition, if this government is formed, you will be invited to do so and we will try to bring these procedures to a solution that will be lasting, not just for two years now or for one year, but that will have a broader consensus. We have practice with this, and this practice has worked no matter how some proclaim that period for I do not know what period of all bad things. The mandate 2004-2008 was the mandate when real wages and pensions grew by almost a quarter. No other such mandate has been in the history of this Slovenia, nor have any of the previous countries in which we have been, in my opinion. The country's indebtedness was record low, it decreased at the time. Of course, it is difficult to explain this to someone who thinks that the credit taken by the government on behalf of all taxpayers and then has to be repaid to you is the same as the loan taken by Luke Moon for a car or for an apartment. No government has anything to do with this decision or with the obligation to return it. When we talk about an increase in government debt from 8 billion to 32 billion, we are talking indirectly about taxpayers' debt, because this is a debt of the country that we all have to pay through taxes and contributions. And today it's still a huge public financial burden. Although our gross domestic product has grown, the share of this debt has fallen and we are going, thank God, towards the Maastricht border 60%. However, the figure itself has not decreased significantly because the principal is mainly reprogrammed. I must say, I don't understand the gallbladder that was poured here by the head of the LMSH Group. The Slovenian Democratic Party, however, I do not think that any of these parties, which we have now signed a coalition treaty, have broken your government. We were up to this government, if you look at the statistics, I'll say, extremely tolerant. The Slovenian Democratic Party has enough Members to convene an extraordinary meeting each week, enough Members to file an interpellation, a constitutional indictment, anything. How many interpretations did we put in at this time? Much less than I think it would be necessary – one alone. Tell us another period in parliamentary history where there was little of this. Since we have been critical of the government, we have nevertheless taken into account the fact that the government is led by a party that has no experience yet, we have given it time and so on. Surely we or all the opposition so far are not the reason for the government's collapse. The first nail in the coffin of this government was killed by Levica, a super-coalist party who just withdrew support, and that's in everyone's eyes, and we all know that. The last is the President of the Government, who has resigned in a way we have never seen before in the history of parliamentary democracy. He did not tie a confidant to any solution, to the appointment of a minister, to some measure, to some difficult reform, and to that he tied up the confidants and it would fall and it would be understandable that he simply jumped into an empty pool. Don't blame us for that. Really, don't blame us. Not even the previous coalition partners, because they were as surprised at this jump as we were. So I really don't understand this bile that was mad at us. Mr. Golubovich, if you are so interconnected, so patient, so impatient, and so untenable, so exclusive – why didn't you fight? Why, then, with this tolerance, connectivity, humanitarianism, oh and in general, you did not retain even 10% of the cabinet of the Prime Minister after one year either – I will not say coalition partners because they insisted on the last coup with which the rifle was thrown into the corn. So don't accuse us of that, really. Although we believed that such a composition would not last the mandate, neither did anyone on our side expect this leap into an empty pool. As far as the performances of our coalition partners are concerned, I can only confirm that he was already at the first interview when we discussed the formation of a coalition agreement, my first sentence: here we sit representatives of different parties because we are different. If everyone were in one party, but there was no need to talk about it, we would agree on it on the parties' bodies. I said on the first day that we don't expect any of these parties that we're trying to find a common denominator, now that we're doing this coalition, we're starting to think differently, to change their values, to take over ours. We don't expect anyone to do that. At the same time, of course, we do not expect others to ask us to do so. Here is the agreement in this case of four sovereign parties, thank God that keep their profiles, which in this coalition will have the opportunity to upgrade them, upgrade them, sharpen them. If you ask me, this out-of-office space is enough, we're bound by what we've put together in a coalition contract. As far as I'm concerned, I'd like a lot of other things there. I believe this applies to all other partners, but Slovenia is sentenced to coalition governments because of the proportional electoral system, and this is what is possible at the moment. As you can see, it was possible to include in the coalition contract at least ten of the most neurological problems affecting this country and most of the population of this country. And that's our commitment. The media has been looking for what is not here – there are many things that I can list for you. But this is a coalition government, and we have half the mandate ahead of us. I said earlier that some things that require wider consensus, broader reflection, preparation, coordination, and not force them to be accepted at all costs, because we do not believe in, I will say, the goodness of solutions that can be short-lived, even if at first sight they look like dry gold. As far as the readings are concerned about the "infamous" Zuyfa. This is the law that saved Slovenia from three. We heard all alive who saved Slovenia from a threesome — see, if it were not for that marriage, Slovenia would sink in 2012. European regulators would come to help, but we know from the experience of other countries that their formulas were not always just aid, they have also caused the consequences that some countries are still addressing. Although, the truth is, if you look at today, according to the skepticism that has also been expressed here, in part also on our part, Portugal, Ireland, Greece have recovered in one way or another. But it is true that, at least when it comes to this last country, tens of billions have been written off and we will never see them again. We don't do what we paid for. I ask those, including the former super-coalic party, why you have not yet abolished the measures that are still in force. For some of the measures of this Zuyf, which have been linked to recovery, have been terminated or we express our intention to abolish them, only with this coalition contract. If the situation is as good as what the head of the LMŠ Group used to say, I really don't know why it hasn't been done, because it's actually a simple matter. As far as Zuif is concerned, I believe he's hurt a lot of people. The government, which then proposed, aligned most of those measures with the opposition at the time. Also later, pension reform and labour market reform and the Slovenian State Holding Act and the Bad Bank Act, to a large extent. And then there was the Constitutional Court's judgment. And when everything was underwater, the government collapsed. This was mentioned earlier: SDS is a party that causes an emergency. Well, tell me one of the extraordinary circumstances that we've created. But at least we solved two of them. First in 1991, when the conditions were severe, we were among the coalition, including the wider political group that saved this situation for the sake of God's relatively low price, otherwise today we would not be talking in the National Assembly of Independent Slovenia. In 2012, when we had to tighten the belt in a number of areas, we did not create extraordinary situations by saving public finances and common good, but these extraordinary conditions were created by some others at so-called uprisings, where our dolls were also hanging from bridges and so on, not to talk about other things. In Maribor almost 100 Slovenian police officers were wounded on one evening, from cubes and Molotovka, and not one protestor. Once again, I will say thank you and honor to the Slovenian police, who did not lose their judgment and held back their reactions to the extreme, despite paying a high price. And I doubt anyone else, except the then government, thanked them for that. So, on the wrong end, here's where radicalism is sought. We also saw this on Friday on these sad scenes here in the middle of Ljubljana, which received an enormous amount of media space, amazing. Here, the mainstream media only lit up what was supposed to be protested — true hatred. It was a rerun of what was happening in 2012, and I must say that it still responds to the silence of those who should have answered but did not. If he's going to be at any assembly during our term or while we're sitting in this Parliament, whoever's yelling, kill Shartz, kill the moon, kill the Jew, Han, whoever, believe me, I'll answer and react the moment I hear about it. But when they wore a poster here Friday where they threatened to kill our 220 thousand voters, they shouted "kill Janša", and your silence still echoes. And there were also Members of some parliamentary parties, and they shuddered at such a cry. So let's have the same vat here. There were also some of these references to the width. The fact is, as I said earlier, that Slovenia has not taken advantage of this since 2004 when we have formal opportunities to take good practices from the European Union's rich treasure of good practices. When we led the Council of the European Union for the first time, we were temporarily employed by more than 300 young people, I think, who were also partly educated abroad, who were sent by the Member States of the European Union as liaison officers, are referred to as those who were connected there to the Presidency country and who had the task of studying how those countries function. A rich library of these good experiences and also a relatively large number — for us, who are a small country — of people who have seen this from the vicinity. Unfortunately, then it came – there were elections, there was the next government, and so on, and today these people, in which the country invested at the time, you can find them in Brussels, in European institutions, you can find them employed in the countries where we sent them to collect good practice because they were not wanted at home. Most of these were expelled or expelled. Now that we're trying to look at how to design these teams, where there are other leads and contacts and addresses – it's hard to convince people to come back, because they also have a bad feeling, some bitterness, "now that you need us again, you're calling us and we've been on the road." And as far as the width is concerned. The fact is that Slovenia is not only what is behind national borders, Slovenia is also our relatives in exchange, Slovenia is some 100,000 of our relatives around the world, Slovenia are both indigenous, Italian and Hungarian. All of this is in a situation where Slovenia is a member of the European Union, an additional wealth which is certainly underexploited. I don't know if any of you had in your hands the book by Dr. Eddie Gobc, our cousin of Professor Dr. Cleveland, about the Slovenians who made it in the world. There is no country and no industry of economy, no industry of science or art, in which in recent decades, or perhaps in the last 150 years, our cousins would not have achieved great results. And you don't have to go 150 years ago, even in this generation. We are taking little advantage of this knowledge in the field of information technology, all that I will say is driven by the Fourth Industrial Revolution, a huge number of Slovenians who have succeeded outside, teaching in foreign universities, institutes, research departments of the world's multinationals. I know a few of them personally, and nobody in principle refuses to cooperate, help. Few will just come back, but to participate differently. In fact, it is time to open up a space for us to take advantage of these potentials as well. This width has been largely understated since 2004.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Dr. Ange Logar has the word, after which she will receive the word Lidija Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u26	Thank you, Chairman. “We agree and proudly support the candidate for the new President of the Government, our party president. In our Group of Members, we have full confidence in our President's ability. His leadership is such that we can hope that the government under his leadership will be effective, operational and efficient.” Don't worry, I won't go on. I was just quoting Tina Hefferle's words before the appointment of the previous Prime Minister. We won't be so clichéd to the current candidate for Prime Minister. For one thing, because we know that he is capable, because we know that he has experience because we know that he has the right width, and because we also know that he does not need such talks. We have previously heard how destructive the Slovenian Democratic Party is, as it shares, is impatient, exclusive. To those who read various chess books, I suggest that they take into their hands the book Stephen Kocha Two Lives. It says very well about Communist indoctrination, namely, how Communists or Communists attribute to others what they represent. And you won't believe the most exclusive and most divisive speeches we have heard before from just those who see the Slovenian Democratic Party reading this. You know, there's no more inclusive policy than John Janša. I'll tell you why. If you listened to the former Prime Minister of the Government yesterday when he made a statement that he was stepping out of one party because he had not received a position, then in a later discussion, he said, he said, that even a candidate for a term of office, namely Mr Janša, agreed or did not object to becoming President of the National Assembly. Now you imagine that the one you threw out of the National Assembly under unconstitutional action here in the National Assembly does not, however, object to becoming president of the National Assembly. Is there anything more involved in current history and more obvious than I can say in this case? I don't think so. Of course, there are many fears of this, Mr Janša, which I can say from my own experience, and very difficult. And I also believe that the next government, ministers – will run a bloody path. But I also believe that in the next two and a half years, there will not be as much of an Instagram of the coalition and politics as it was under the government of Marjan Sarca. Which may be bad for those ministers who like to look on social networks, but much better for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Today is actually a very important day. In fact, we're stepping in the path of dialogue. Imagine, despite such a huronic rebellion of those who are attached to a state nursery and who use various language as speakers against and hostile rhetoric, four courageous men or three men and one woman who are able to find a common language and walk together on the road. Do you know what a turnaround this is in this country when they've been talking about who we're not going with in 2008 to finally get into a situation where we're going into something together? Considerable and important progress. We are voting for 15 or 18 months after another vote, which was more or less forced at the time. But look, we finally have a chance to find a consensus together for a future government that will do something good for Slovenia. The past government and Marjan Sarec have done something particularly good for this Slovenia. But you have to be honest, except for one thing. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, the fact that he gave up. By giving up, he allowed and eased this tension in this country so that the government could finally be formed, such as it was eventually elected by the electorate a year and a half ago, if you are honest. If there had not been an exclusive policy in the last 18 months, this government could have significantly earlier and significantly more measures on the table and significantly more reforms already carried out in that country. He's still playing numbers. The 13 Members made the 13th Antichrist government, and now the 3rd. 3. We name the third government of Janez Janša. And it goes to the third, so let me conclude with the words of Lidija Divac Mirnik, who said a year and a half ago: "New Members do not really understand why we should always oppose something in this Slovenia, share, label, be negative and all that we have witnessed in the last two months. We are here because we want to do something good for us and our people." Dear parties who didn't want to talk about joining this new coalition, you heard today, the deadline was offered. Accept it, and with these principles, which I have just read, also work for the next two and a half years for the good of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Lidija Dijak Mirnik has the word, and she will receive the word Natasha Sukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable candidate, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Today is probably another day someone thinks it's a fantastic day. Comrade Logar, I still think as I thought at the time, and I'm still talking like that, and I'm gonna keep talking like that. I don't think it's a fantastic day, but it's not, even though it's 3. 3. and all that number game you were talking about. Mr. Candidate has said quite a few things today. He also talked about the deeper problems we have in Slovenia, which I absolutely agree with. But I really like what you wrote in the coalition contract, and I quote: “We need a positive atmosphere.” End of story. And here I absolutely agree with you. But you and your client have a problem with your trolls, and this is what you have, and this is a very big problem, because you've been in disagreements, destroying the positive atmosphere in Slovenia and spreading lies. But look at the fragment. Esmeralda missed. That's very nice of you. Which means that this is very great progress, because from now on in Slovenia there will be no more, and I welcome this, and this very much. Now, here's something else about the content of your coalition contract. In view of this, Mr Janša, that you have stifled in March 2019, I state: "The adoption of the rebalancing of this year's budget is clearly the unconstitutional and structurally worst after 2009 and 2010 and puts Slovenia at great risk at the time of economic growth cooling. We will require a constitutional assessment," now a note I am adding. That was the end of the clue, and now my note. The fact is that it is on the basis of the balance that you have shown to it the surplus of the State budget in 2019, according to the data of the Ministry of Finance, that you will not believe, from the end of January, 225 million euros, which is, again, you will not believe, 0.5% of the gross domestic product. Given that there are few financial measures in the new coalition agreement mentioned above, and the fact that we have left you public finances in a very good condition, you could only conclude that you appreciate our successful work and the work of the Minister of Finance. I sincerely hope that you will continue to do so, because you will need a financial resource to distribute all the candy you've written down, and you know that. As for your statement you made today, I was particularly attracted to it, namely, you were talking about demobilization. You said something like this: we have too many people in the public sector, it is necessary to relocate people to the economy because they do not have enough people to work there. Something like that, it's not an exact quote, it's something like this. So I'm simply asking you how you're going to do this or how you're going to do it, or how you're going to do it, even though we know how the public servants are being protected, paid by the balance sheet, and whether they work well or not, I'm serious about whether you're going to forgive people and then make them work in the economy. This manoeuvre and the hero who's about to find out, I would really like to see it because I'm going to congratulate him with all due respect, and I'm going to pay you for a syringe in Maribor. Now, since this is divided into SMCs according to coalition partners, I'd really like to see this hero. Really, really. And congratulate him absolutely if he succeeds. By the way, there's just a little bit more to the obvious about too many laws and too many under-laws. Your government 2004-2008, you have produced 614 government laws, the government of Marjan Sarca, the minority government of Marjan Šarca 2018-2020, which is a good year half and 113. If we kept going at that speed, we'd have come to 226, 250, something like that. So much for the fact that there are too many laws and regulations. Which I agree with. If you remember, at the elections in the List of Marjan Šarc, we said that we have absolutely too much of this and we need to reduce it. And then third, I'm totally in love with the subject of decentralisation. I absolutely agree with you, with everything you've said. Unfortunately, Slovenia is not only Ljubljana, but when we look at where the most money is going, even public, we find that we are a very centralised country. I agree that this country needs to be decentralised, but with your action to set up a government demography office based in Maribor, which I absolutely welcome, we will not decentralize this country, unfortunately. It's just one candy, it's not decentralisation, it's sand in the eyes. I suppose it's because someone from one party needs a job in Maribor, but maybe I'm wrong. And there's something else I'd like to say. If there's gonna be one more job in Maribor, it's gonna be okay. And that's definitely not decentralisation. You also talked about the introduction or the process of establishing the provinces. During that time, this process was under way, and I was also present at a consultation with the President of the State. There were also representatives of your party who did not say that they would support these proposals, although paradoxically, the preparers explained that these were documents that were produced during your government's time. It's a paradox. Understand who can. I can't. Maybe just for the record, 'cause I think I'm gonna spend too much time. I want to make myself public, and I also want to say that as the mother of two sons, I am against you forcing them to serve for six months in military service. Against. You and your sons can do this as you wish, and I will see to it that my sons will grow up to be a real grandfather if I use your vocabulary or vocabulary of your enthusiastic fans on all possible modern media, because it is the job of parents to raise their children, to create them and also to teach them what is right and what is wrong. I do it myself, and I also teach them the love of the country. That's why my two sons don't have to go to the military for six months. Now, just to conclude that all the speculations that your trolls are releasing will be rejected. I'll vote against it myself. I'm going to take a picture of this voice mail, and if necessary, I'm going to publish it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Nataša Sukič has the word, and Iva Dimic will discuss it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Your Honor! Regardless of what the candidate for prime minister said today, no matter how stately, he almost cognizantly sounded, Janez Janša or his SDS remains unacceptable as the holder of power. We know that river – the wolf changes hair, nature never. Janša and his SDS remain unacceptable due to expressed political values, which pose a great threat to democratic culture and political processes in our country. It is also unacceptable economically and socially, as it seeks to privatise public education, public health and, of course, state-owned enterprises. It is unacceptable because the SDS has repeatedly shown that it denies climate change – even at a time when Europe is committed to becoming carbon neutral in the European Green Agreement by 2050. Why is he so committed? Because, of course, he is aware of a nearby climate disaster if we do not act. In particular, the candidate for prime minister remains unacceptable due to the open rhetoric of hatred, intolerance, xenophobia, homophobia and the constant lies he and his party have been telling, due to the constant attacks on journalists and the media. Let's just remember the recent incident with journalist Meto Roglič from Dnevnik, quote: “Photomontage of bloody images, other visual tools, offensive articles that go to personal level, and other methods are designed to protect and reduce freedom of expression, and the ultimate goal is to prevent the publication of stories that are unpleasant to owners, political allies and supporters of Slovenian media companies in Hungarian ownership.” End of story. This was recorded in the Slovenian Journalists' Association. Just these days, the ECRI presented a report on racism and intolerance for last year, according to 2019, quote: "Europe is facing a shocking reality. Anti-Semitic, anti-Muslim, and other racist crimes are growing at high rates. The last case took place in Germany in the town of Hanau when nine people were killed. The causes of such disgusting acts are often poisonous words and conspiracy theories that spread worldwide in extreme right media. The increasing impact of ultranationalist and xenophobic policies across Europe”, I repeat, ultranationalist and xenophobic policies across Europe, “the hate speech that burns through social networks, the rise in anti-Semitism and anti-Muslim sentiments are becoming increasingly worrying.” And so on. We can read this in the European Commission's report against racism and intolerance of the ECRI for 2019. To conclude some more history. We probably all remember Tomaž Majer alias Janez Janša. He was the star of commenting on the early elections in 2011, as after the victory of Zoran Jankovic, he allowed an attack on the voter profile of Positive Slovenia and branded him coach. After SDS Myer’s mysterious commentator disappeared, he was replaced immediately by SDS champion Janez Janša, who, with her rhetoric, is a permanent peyorative and hostile discourse in the Slovenian political sky. John Janša, of course, went straight to the fences. And if coaches were voters who came from settlements such as Ljubljana's Fužina or Stépanja village, they were punks in 2014 Journalists, so are the wrong journalists. What in the world does Janez Janša do for wrongs? Not their possible professional slips, but their last names. We all know what that means. Therefore, it is clear, this kind of policy, this kind of rhetoric of the SDS champion does not belong in our space and not in our time. It is totally unacceptable that hatred of minorities and differences would become a normal part of our society, our policy. Respected and respected, therefore, the moment has come for the election of the new Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. I will give my voice on behalf of the refugees, the Gypsies, the faggots, the mussels, the Hotch, the coaches, the tights, the zombies and the cannibals. Of course I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic has the word, and she's going to be discussed by the mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u32	Dear fellow Members! I believe that everyone who went to the 2018 elections, and everyone who was elected, follows that politics is a work for the common good. But how much each person has made available for this common good during this time, each one knows himself. Of course, I wish that at least this national assembly could be good, respectful, without any expressions that may offend people. Here I must say that I was disturbed by the word trolls, if I understood one of my fellow Members correctly. I really want to be an example to citizens, how we know how to work patiently among ourselves, because we would also like to pass this on to citizens and citizens. Slovenia certainly does not need division, but needs what will bring it together. And if these are the areas that have been mentioned here many times today, the area of long-term care, the area of reduction of waiting species, the area of social state, justice, security, respect for human life, it seems to me that this is what people, everyone in themselves, want – that Slovenian policy, however, would work for the common good. A compromise in politics is not a sign of weakness, but of strength. One who can make compromises is not weak to me, but is strong because he can look into another’s eyes because he can listen to another, because what is very important to me is he wants and can respect another as he is. This is what we want in New Slovenia. That's what we've always wanted, and that's why we went with our former president, Ljudmilo Novak. We want to be equal in politics, in partnership, coalition or opposition relations. It is very important and depends on us for sure also the future of young people. Will we together be able to create the conditions that will keep young people in Slovenia? Will we be able to work together to create conditions that will allow for a safe and respectful age for the elderly? I can say that, as the opposition party of Nova Slovenija, we have put a great deal of emphasis on these topics and we have been very involved and together with our professional colleagues and people who care about this Slovenia, we have drawn up a number of laws that have been passed in the past, such as personal assistance, and which have not been adopted as a household allowance to return state pensions to women, especially in rural areas. The coalition contract is signed. There are many things in it that have been written down by the government so far, but unfortunately nothing has been done since 2014. I'm talking about long-term care. With long-term care, we certainly have a social and health aspect, and it is certainly easier to write and legalise the social aspect as a health aspect. I want to, and I have told myself many times that Nova Slovenija is ready to participate actively here. Of course, there is an opportunity when we can apply our expectations and desires. We want this Slovenia and, I can say, this world to be better in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Reich, prepare Jelka Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. All in attendance, all in attendance! At first I wanted to discuss, and this morning I was surprised by the letter from one of our citizens, who is very particular to my personal position, and I decided to read it. It says: “Dear Members! Today, after a good year and a half, you're choosing a new government. On the basis of the attached signatures, the President of the Republic gave Mr Janez Janša the mandate for the composition of the new Government. The mandate for the composition of the new government was given after the President of the existing government, in his resignation, informed us that Mr Sarec had resigned, since the derogations had been made to him by the Minister of Finance and Health of his own party. In addition, he reasoned with an out-of-coalic partner who blackmailed and refused to take responsibility for his actions, even though the amount of words he said was well - known. From words to deeds, the river is unknown to them, even when Slovenia is the most difficult and threatened threesome. In the SAB you were a trusted member of the left-centre coalition. You respected the coalition agreement and also demanded that it be respected by other partners, especially in the area of pensioners, where you have achieved that pensions are raised and coordinated. For your principles, determination and experience, you would almost be dismissed from the government coalition. You didn't give up. This summer we would be provided with free public inter-national transport. For me, as for the grandmother of six-year-old Jan, who lives with her parents in Maribor, this is very important because I live alone in Celje. A train ride for my Jan is a special, unforgettable experience and a great joy to me. I'm afraid all this new government stuff will be gone. There will be no women's energy, which has launched hundreds of different projects across Slovenia, including the second track for Luka Koper and the 3rd development axis. I know all this because my neighbors, who have a graduate of construction, say that he immediately got a job because companies barely follow orders. Your golden girls, the heroes of Alenka, Angelika and Masha, have survived as politicians and have overcome many hatreds, lies, constant and harsh disqualifications and exclusions. Finally, we have come to realize this in the case of the conscious Koroška Slovenka Dr. Angelika Mlinar, whom some without a hint of shame have talked to Austria, a disloyal citizen, and again others have revealed her unrealistic views. Some people just didn't like her because she was a woman. The committee hearings, which we've all been watching late in the night, will never be forgotten. Like Slovenka, I was ashamed, and I wasn't the only one. I was insulted, humiliated, and angry. I'm a woman myself. I am also furious today to see that SMC and Desus have concluded a contract with a party that is increasingly special and even aware of it. The masks are down. My trust in SMC and Desus is gone. I'm glad SMC's constitutional lawyer Cerar stepped out. As a retired lawyer, I cannot and will never agree to a violation of human rights, spreading lies, intimidation and personal disqualifications. There are consequences ahead of us today. You have before you the vote on the election of right-wing Prime Minister Janez Janša, who will be followed by the hearing of the proposed ministerial team. Let me say that after all the media disqualifications that Janez Janša has received from the SAB party on behalf of the proposed government's confidentiality, I fully support your decision not to take over the ballots in the SAB party and thus to exclude any doubts and suggestions as to how your Members voted." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is Jelka Godec, prepare Matjaž German. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u36	There have been several turbulent political moments in Slovenia over the past ten years. As we have heard, in ten years five governments, fighting mainly on the left side, fighting new faces to maintain power at all costs, failing to see politics on both the domestic floor and the collapse of Slovenia's reputation in the European Union. We have wasted time on structural reforms in various areas, from social, health to investment in infrastructure, to drawing on cohesion funds, so that I will not list everything. The last government that actually left — and today we listen to who is to blame — is not to blame for this, after all, for the SDS, but we can also hear from former coalition parties that are essentially accusing each other of not losing words. In fact, Charche's government was in style: if it was, it would be, but if it wasn't, it wouldn't be. And those were his words. Today, when we listened to the representative of the LMŠ, he also said a lot about the LMŠ Group and also about probably the former government. The consequences of the exchange of governments, ministerial chairs, the consequences of the exchange of ministers and the management of ministries, and the indecisive and irrational management of governments over the past ten years have left consequences in various areas: not to draw enough European funds or cohesion funds; increasing the centralisation of Slovenia; bureaucratic obstacles, and what the future Prime Minister of the Government has said, increasing bureaucratic barriers and legal acts and regulations; health disorder; and poor social image and so on. It is time, if not for the time to put things in the right place, to establish a government with full powers, to elect the Prime Minister of the Government, who has the largest internship in Slovenia or is the longest time in politics and has the most experience. Last but not least, it is one of the European politicians with the longest internship or the most experience. And, of course, as in 2004-2008, at the same time as the partnership for development in the future government, or in those two and a half years, a normal relationship with the opposition will be established so that everything that the Government will do will somehow balance or align with the opposition. You heard the door was open, the hand was offered. It is now essentially in the future opposition, which, I believe, will be sharp and will look under her fingertips, it is also up to her to participate in the implementation itself, in the essence of investment or to help establish normal cases. Slovenia is currently – and I hope this moment will be very short – in an unenviable period, on the one hand, the coronavirus pandemic and health riots, and on the other hand, the migratory wave is likely to cool off economically. In fact, it is right to elect the Prime Minister of the Government, who knows what he wants, who has managed to combine the various views of the four coalition parties in the coalition contract. I believe that all those who have said yes or with the knowledge that Slovenia can do more, so that the President of the Government, the coalition parties in the National Assembly and the new government will roll up their sleeves, take a strong lead in hard work for the common good. I wish the President of the Government the best or the best of luck in this governance, and the next government certainly has a lot of success in this hard work.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž the German, to prepare Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Vice President. I want everything good, not as much to Mr Janša as to all of us – God help us. We have promised, and we will not swallow these promises, that we will not cooperate with John Janša for a number of reasons, because, at least in practice, his government has caused at least a lost decade. Already in 2008, I recall in the debates on pre-election debates how Mr Janša denied the financial crisis, which was no longer to be denied. Later there was also awareness, even though he himself mentioned, or in a previous speech, that he himself had helped not have been invited to Slovenia, he may have forgotten that during the Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek, Mr Janez Janša had invited the troika to the Republic of Slovenia. Since the objective does not justify means, false news, misinformation, hatred, although Mr Krivec said in the address, I quote: “We have always been patient and inclusive in the SDS.” Unbelievable. Since it is not credible, Mr Janez Janša, one speaks, the other works, we know the politics from the other, how it looks, because its operation is linked to a series of controversial practices, unexplained financial flows, avoiding court calls, falsifying documents. Because we are against the militarisation of society, because we do not want the revisionism of history, we do not want the Slovenians to become losers in history and history, but not winners, as we were, and we are proud of it, because we care about the social state and public services and the equal opportunities of all, regardless of where they come from and which family they come from, because we oppose the privatisation of health because we support public education because we do not want Slovenia to become a Hungarian province. And in the latter we are very good, because we have placed ourselves on a new map of Europe, in the case of Ibiza, when Minister Strache was carried away in Austria, after Le Penova, who was convicted, after Salvini, which was financed by Russian capital, after Orban, Gruevski comes Janša with various malversations that allow, I will say, a media landscape in favor of his own conduct. He says he's gonna take care of the situation in the police department, and the cops are already worried about it. As has already been said, he will introduce recruitment, he will lead the European Union, he will regulate relations with the Republic of Croatia, he will fight migration and the coronavirus. I don't know what it's like to have global warming, which is persistently denied. Of course, he says it won't be a coalition of ideologies or media involvement. We find the answers ourselves. When we talk about integration, let us just remember the debate on the appointment of Minister Angelika Mlinar, which makes us very ashamed today. Foreign media is marking it, and here I quote Voice of Europe, "Orban's supporter, nationalist, populism will become the new president of the European country, the new Prime Minister of the European State". EURACTIV: Janez Janša, a fan of Victor Orban, nominated as Prime Minister of the Government. Or Le Mond, who writes that Victor Orban's greatest ally is appointed as a terminator. That's how the European Union sees us, all for nothing. We can take over Gregor's invitation. [[Lapsus linguae. Matjaž German says Gregor Židan (PS SMC)]] instead of Dejan jeidan (PS SD).) The Jew says that in the next two years we will know how to respond properly to all the above. Here goes my call primarily to comrades and comrades from the Left, in recent times their policy has become more antipolitical, so that we can prevent all together the principle that we have committed ourselves as politicians to people so that we will behave accordingly, and here I will not touch perfectly the decision of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and the Party of the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has Janja the Servant. Get Miha Kordish ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that today one story is ending and the other begins again, I should be allowed to comment on things that we have not commented on in public and in public. Indeed, there is one period behind us of the minority government, which, according to all beliefs and even the SMC, did not have to finish the work. Why not? Because, in fact, within this composition of the coalition, all coalition partners were constructive partners. None of us locked up needlessly, none of us made it difficult for the work of this minority government, making it difficult for him and only one person. And I can say that with credibility. I was present several times in the premises of Gregorčič, where we were sitting coalition partners, and again and again, no matter what anyone said out loud, we were amazed at the way the communication took place in those rooms. Last but not least, it was a week or two before the resignation of the Prime Minister, where there was a very constructive coalition partner initiative at the table, which seemed to me to be very important, which seemed very important for the future of Slovenia, which seemed very important from the point of view of the actual situation that had taken place, and it would certainly have been the Prime Minister of the Government who should have acted. However, the response to this coalition partner's initiative to me was personally incomprehensible, as much anger as anger, anger, cynicism, inappropriate labelling, impatient speech and readings to all coalition partners back then as in those few minutes, I must say that, in the meantime, I have asked our President how you can do this. In fact, I think we can agree that anywhere in any job, in any company, you can't choose your associates, and certainly those you have, you have to respect, you have to behave appropriately to them, and those who are the leader must lead, lead properly, lead with respect, take into account different opinions and be constructive. Regrettably, Mr Sarec has not been a part of any of these cases that I have cited. I'm afraid not. And there was also our President's observation that, of course, this could not take long, and it proved to be true. Immediately after this surprising, unnecessary resignation of the President of the Government, which I attribute too much faith in high-flying public figures, the SMC, in addition to one parliamentary party, stepped in front of the cameras and actually said what it meant. One rare. And that's that we don't want new elections and we're ready to talk to everyone. I emphasize, everyone. Why am I stressing this? Because there is certainly no party on the left and the middle of this House anymore, no other party besides the SMC who is willing to talk to everyone. Not one. And that's credible in this place. Following this resignation, the SMC first launched an initiative to restore the existing left-centre coalition. I repeat, SMC has given this initiative. This initiative for LMŠ was not acceptable because it would degrade the President of the Government, who is currently resigning instead of the Minister, of course, because, as our President has said several times before, if the team is not doing well, the coach is changing. And the SMC initiative was to restore that government and just change coaches. But of course it wasn't acceptable. SMC also talked about joining the government proposed by Alenka Bratušek, who we also thought was a constructive initiative. And we talked honestly and honestly. We have even talked frankly and honestly about participating in new elections with LMŠ, although the initiative by Marjan Šarc has not been honest or honest and it has happened, hand to heart, only through the media and has only remained in the media for the next 5 days before it actually reached SMC. And maybe I can comment a little bit more on that, too, because I've been involved in these discussions. [[…]] There were two conversations, the contents of which unfortunately did not remain closed. And even more had happened, despite the agreement of the two presidents to move the talks to the level of the parliamentary groups, one of these presidents, regardless of what was agreed on, dared to criticize, change, even suggested what SMC could and could not, of course, again via the media. This cannot and must not be acceptable to me personally or to a SMC client. Why am I saying that SMC was the only one who made a sincere statement after the resignation of the Prime Minister? Because the hook on the SMC door in this house was, in my opinion, the hottest hook in days. And even those who today will not support this new coalition have always appealed to the SMC: “Please, agree.” Why? Let everyone think for themselves, including those. It is a well-known fact that I am one of those Members of the SMC that I have had the greatest difficulties with this, and of course I can honestly admit it. And I have them today. And I'll probably have it all in the next period. Definitely. But what was it that affected my decision, in addition to what I had already listed, and there was a very nice experience about how the parties on the left or the parties in the middle don't know how to cooperate with each other, and how, despite the initiatives to cooperate, it doesn't happen because one ego is bigger than the other. At this time in the SMC, we have devoted a lot of effort to talking to our members. We did a whole cycle throughout Slovenia, held a whole series of intense talks, twice held a party council, and several times held an executive committee. To my surprise, what happened in the local environment, especially in my local environment, was that people said to us: “Look, the division is enough!” “It’s enough that we keep dividing left and right over and over again, because we’re going to be shooting in a few years,” said one of our members. If we keep this up, it's definitely gonna happen. This is what they told us, of course, not the only one, that there will be no mistake. SMC is a liberal party, including opinions within SMC are different. However, this message was given to the Members and the party's management in such a number that it must be taken into account. Despite this communication in the field, there was also an intensive debate in the party's world. In particular, the SMC Council is composed of people who do not sit on any chairs because of the party, so it is not in their interest to maintain this chair, but their opinions were objective, weighty and all were the same, all except one that we know is a member of our delegation and will vote differently today than the rest of the SMC Group. What were these opinions? We don't like the emerging coalition, we don't like it. We do not like that we have come to the situation in Slovenia when it is necessary to cooperate. [[advertising from the hall]] My colleague Tomić, you will have your word, and I believe you will take advantage of it, and now allow me. But everyone has carefully considered what brings such cooperation and, above all, what brings so far non-cooperation, non-communication, exclusion, speech, we will not do it, we will not do it, we will not do it, we will not do it, we will not do it, and we will not do it. People didn't send us to this place to talk to anyone we wouldn't talk to. They're not. They sent us here to talk about working together to look for possible common points, even if there are not many of them, but we must. And I firmly believe that. And as a Member who represents these people who have told us this and has informed us this, I have made my decision as I have, and so will I vote today. Believe me, this road is not the easiest. I believe it's the hardest way SMC could have chosen, but we're on this path with all the responsibility. And because we stand in this way, in nothing, we do not alter our views, our principles, our views, even more, we stand firm behind those we have once spoken or written. And we'll do it again, if that's what it takes, we will. But we will try to sit at the same table, we will try to negotiate and we will try to cooperate in order to carry out the projects that we have already highlighted several times today. Because we believe it's good because we believe it's necessary. And, unfortunately, with the future coworkers we're going to be sitting at the same table, I have absolutely nothing more in common than we had last week or a month ago. With some maybe yes, Susanna, Boris, we have worked together, and we will work with everyone else now. But, and in this place I invite you, you know what is acceptable to SMC and what is not. And I urge you not to take advantage of this. Stick to what we're about to agree on. Stick to what's acceptable to everyone. Stick to what's good for Slovenia. Because the moment this line is crossed, the SMC will not be in this story again.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is Miha Kordish. Let the mag be prepared. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, chairman. From now on, we will look at Janez Janša as Prime Minister, and in his shadow we will see the far right government. But every time we look at this Prime Minister and this government, we must be aware of the following. Regardless of how the political middle washes its hands today or not, the extreme right-wing government is the mirror of this corrupt political environment and not its diametric contradiction, as some parties would like to show. In the last two mandates, there has been a virtually complete spillover of the political environment with SDS policies. In particular, it began intensively in the previous term when we received the government of Mir Cerar. What did the government of Mira Cerar do? She set up a cutting wire on the border, privatized, demolished health care, attacked the poor, violated labour and social rights. At virtually all points, she adopted the programme, which was dictated by Janez Janša from the right opposition. Then, in 2018, elections took place and a new government, the government of Marjana Sharca, arrived. This government started quite promisingly with a left-hand turn, but very quickly it also got back into the bottlenecks of old politics. She continued about the way her predecessor had been doing for four years. She did adopt something new from the right hand bench. She adopted the technology of the rule of amber. What do you think Damir Crnčec was doing in the cabinet of the Prime Minister? It was there to help establish control over state-owned intelligence equipment to help carry out a human resources raid on Telekom and other state-owned enterprises and subsystems. Let us remember how Prime Minister Marjan Sarec acted in Parliament, the derogation of the legislative body that he gave him the mandate to put in place. It's a joke. And finally, as this last government has done, let's look at the SD Minister for Culture, who has been conducting virtually the last humane cultural tsunami on the party line. But when he is called to account in the National Assembly, he resents, insults journalists, lies, deceptions, atrocities, in short, directly from the cover of Jancist Nova 24 TV. Ladies and gentlemen from the political background, whether you wash your hands or shout no today, Sab, LMŠ, SD, Desus, SMC, Janez Janša is what appears in the political mirror when you look at it yourself. It's not your diametric contradiction, it's your political completion. And then, when we had two, three governments of bad political forgeries on the right, now comes the original. Depressive? Yeah. Surprising? Not at all. Today, Janez Janša does not even need something special to sit in power. The government's chair is stolen according to its measure, and you stole it. And this corrupt political environment, no matter how it swears today, the right-wing march on power cannot stop. He can only be stopped by the left. And by the end of the term of office, we will do everything we can, and with this policy we will continue until capitalism is exceeded, we will move on to democratic and ecological socialism, which will take the root of the problem, to remove the conditions in which the extreme right can grow. The Left is the only force that can be established as a serious actor of inhibition, opposition, prevention of extreme right. The corrupt political environment, you, ladies and gentlemen, which has enabled Janez Janš's third government, is certainly not. I will vote against Janez Janša forming a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, get Marko Bandelli ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u44	Yes, Madam President, thank you for the floor. Health, demographics, decentralisation, return to work, value and security — these are probably the key topics facing the third government of Janez Janša. I'm sure health problems can be solved if they're dealt with in a serious way. Demography, one of the key problems for Slovenia to remain in the near future. Decentralisation is necessary and resolution during the digitisation period. Social assistance cannot be an alternative to work. The security of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia is one that will also ensure further development and the future of Slovenia. I am confident that Prime Minister Janez Janša and the third government will also offer to cooperate with the opposition. I am convinced that the laws in the Slovenian Parliament with the participation of the opposition are better. However, the laws with the participation of the opposition are also better for a higher and better standard of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Janez Janša has already proved by the first government and the second government that a serious approach can work well for the benefit of Slovenia. I am convinced that the government of Janez Janša is also a guarantee for a stable and operational government, and above all that Slovenia needs in the near future – a stable and operational government with the participation of the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli, to be prepared by Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u46	Thank you, President, for your word. We are here today in this position, but the responsibilities are also clear. I have also told many times who to point to, that we are here today in this situation as we are. I have no problem telling you, and I will say it again – the absolute culprit is the Left because she did not know how to be cooperative, and we know that. With their demands, they wanted a four-year project to be resolved within six months, so to speak, that's not possible. This is not how it works, and this is not how it works. The second culprit is the renegade, the Prime Minister of the Government. He's guilty, the government didn't fall, but he's given up because all of his closest associates are gone, and that's what you have to say. It's their fault. That's what I'll always say, and I'll always say it. Now we have a minority government. Yes, of course, the minority government is a difficult government, but it is probably a lot of times an opportunity, an opportunity especially for the opposition, because virtually no law can be passed if you do not get most of the votes. On a number of occasions, the opposition, either one or the other, could also use amendments and other matters to make certain changes to the laws presented, but that was also not right. Then there was a historical retreat, if that's what we call it. Why was that resignation? I wonder, too, I hear rumors, if this is true, were these reasons for the resignation, he was heard three times in a different way. There have also been meetings of the KNOVS. And then all of a sudden, this retreat came. So many also wondered if there was anything else in the background. But it's just thinking. Now we have a project on the table called A. That is to say, that project, which I think I will also confirm, which is why I also condemned those stateless and unjustifiable demonstrations that took place the previous day, this is one legitimate process of democracy. The government falls from one place, the other has numbers, and has the right and legitimacy to form a new government. If it has numbers, it even has a majority government. And there's no doubt about it. The SAB prepared plan B if this plan didn't go away. And that's the project government. And we invited everyone to talk. There wasn't much of a response. Even if it was not adopted in such a way, there was little ridicule, but the purpose was good, in particular with a view to adopting a new electoral law with this project government, long-term care, guarantee schemes and all other things should be adopted. Then we could go to the polls. I think that the government, which will be created in a short time, and if we confirm Mr Janša today, if you confirm him, because we are not going to raise the ballots, he will face a financial deficit. I am sure of this and therefore I also believe what they have already predicted will need a balance of this budget. You know, there's a financial deficit, it's going to happen, because there's a lot of reasons. One of the reasons, one of the main reasons, in my opinion, is this aggressive increase in public sector wages. I will repeat publicly here that the ministers of the SAB, too I have been there, we have voted against, not against the increase in wages, which is also correct, but against the way in which they are raised, because this is going to be a big hole this year or next year, a big hole. That's why we were against it, given that we're experts in this and we knew what it was about, especially our president, she's always pointing to it, and we've voted against it. This was also one of the reasons why it was disputed within certain actors. The Left's appetites were very large. You can't deny it. Any thing you proposed, we no longer wondered if it would cost the country, but how much it would cost the country. From the same little thing, he's going out so much, he can't go out anymore. But that wasn't enough either. We've done everything, I think we've confirmed everything you've proposed. Well, no, you had to take those steps, and now you blame the others. No, no, no. You're one of the main culprits, as far as this is concerned. You know, even likeness, like laws themselves – it can't go anywhere, because it's proven. I believe that Mr Shirtzl is not here, and I very much appreciate him, and I think that if he does take over this ministry of finance, because I know that he is a real expert in this, I hope he will also propose a new budget rebalancing so that the budget will be sustainable, because now he is not. Why is the SAB going to take such a step? We will not raise our voices solely from the motive of manipulation and insinuation of the diverse, which you media and all together have said on our account. So there wouldn't be a speech about who did this, so there wouldn't be speculation about this and our voters. Otherwise, I absolutely agree with the creation of a new government because it is legitimate. I'd talk here, but I don't have time, because they left me very little time. I'd like to talk about the program I saw. On certain matters, if there is still time, I will try to make another announcement later, because I have seen some very good points in the programme, and certain points are very controversial precisely because of financial deficits and other matters. I think we, as the opposition, will now follow the treaty as such. Unfortunately, I have to say again, and I repeat that we will abstain from voting, not because of the accusations made by the Left, who said she did not trust the Members. We have nothing to trust Members, we are very united, we have been united since the first day we have been here in Parliament since the first day. And that's why we decided to take this step. Let me finish. In this way, we will also keep our pre-maritals, all those promises we made at the beginning and in the election campaign. I cannot help but wish the mandate-holder much success as well as state-of-the-art thinking. That's it. Thank you for my help.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word has Robert Pavšič, prepare to be Mag. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u48	Thank you very much, chairman. It is amazing how many great saviors are found in political crises in this building, regardless of where they come from, but there are even more rhetorical locksmiths and excuses for various political moves. Today we have heard many things, including the fact that this future opposition is actually giving legitimacy to some in a new coalition with our a priori forecast that we will work constructively with the coalition, of course on the other hand. But no, dear fellows, the legitimacy of each building is given to you by the electorate. But there is one important difference between this pole here and the resulting pole, if we compare ourselves to about a year and a half ago. At that time, we listened to a huge number of unwarranted explanations that predicted some disastrous consequences. Today, at least from the majority here in the middle of the focused Members, there is a sense of constructiveness and good wishes for the new government. As politicians, we have entered this area to build a country, not to destroy it, whether we are in position or in opposition. And even before the government has actually established itself, it's already starting to sting, be careful what you do. That sounds a little, at least for the hair. And we have also experienced that laws have begun to withdraw that could undermine the financial system of the future government. A few days ago, we withdrew the bill for so-called subordinates on the committee, and today, Mr Horvat announced that they would withdraw the law on the reduction of waiting species. Of course, there are many reasons. For the first time, there were reasons for waiting for a decision by the Constitutional Court, and for today to find an even better solution together. Of course, if these laws were intended for a government that is currently doing business, then everything would be fine, but they are not acceptable to you because you know what they are bringing. And this is actually that mode of operation of the former opposition, let's put in laws that are ineffective, and then knock on the chest, see how the coalition irresponsibly prevents the adoption of good laws. Our leader of the parliamentary group said in his position and stressed that in all the laws that we will put into this national assembly, we will look at the whole forest and not one individual tree. And we'll do the same thing in advance. For today, I have to say that at the opening address, I was a little disappointed. That wasn't Mr. Janša I remember. So soft, without energy, it all sounded like I was actually wondering whether he didn't believe himself in this story and the positive outcome of the program he presented to us. We have heard a subjective assessment and a well-known analysis of decades of problems in this country, concrete solutions have been something, but I have heard in particular two, notably that there will be higher contributions and that a compulsory military service will be reintroduced after the new. On this side, those who have worked with the government know what our budget can do, so we will be really constructive to you, and we will look at you in detail. But we don't want any rematching after public institutions in the coming months, but I think this wish will come to nothing. However, one very positive case was raised in Mr Janša's speech, condemning any ideology and regime that criminalises same-sex relationships. This is at least a small step in the direction that the liberal part of this institution would probably advocate. And today we've heard many illustrations about the mirror, I don't want to be in your skin today, because I know it's hard for you. It is only a matter of principle and one manifestation of a burning desire. Otherwise, the mirror should be kept in constant motion, and we must never forget that the reflection may at times be distorted. I certainly do not want to judge in advance, but experience from the past can undermine the guidelines for the future. That's why I'm denying you support today. With hope for a better future, I will look you in the eyes again, for these alone are the mirror of the soul. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dean Kaloh. Just get ready, Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u50	Vice President, thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, Members of Parliament, distinguished Commissioner Janez Janša, distinguished citizens and citizens! I will focus on the emphasis of the coalition treaty. This seems very important to me, because important elements are, among other things, exposed to programming ceilies: debirocratisation, decentralisation, the establishment of a demographic fund. The Coalition Treaty also focuses on environmental concerns, on a competitive economic environment, on accelerated and more efficient European resource allocation, puts quality and affordable public health at the forefront of all and advocates for all categories of citizens who somehow need the assistance of the state, young families, pensioners, elderly people and farmers. I certainly believe that the future government coalition will seek and, above all, apply solutions that are good for both Slovenia and its citizens. The third government of Janez Janša thinks with decentralisation very seriously, which is right and necessary, as Slovenia needs to develop more evenly and in balance. The establishment of a government demography office based in Maribor, also the establishment of a Slovenian demographic pension fund based in Maribor, see, this is explicitly stated in the coalition contract. Maribor is the second largest city in the country and as a university regional centre deserves to be recognised by the state, this will now happen. The next Government of the Republic of Slovenia will lead an experienced, wise and determined policy, Mr. Janez Janša, who has a vision, courage and a clear path towards achieving the goal, which is Slovenia's equal starting point for all citizens, an economic and developmental successful Slovenia, Slovenia's prosperity and Slovenia, which we carry in our Slovenian hearts. Today is a good day for Slovenia. I will vote in favour of Mr Janez Janša. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u51	Thank you very much. There is a candidate for the Prime Minister, Mr. Janez Janša, please. Didn't you raise your hand? I'm sorry. I got a bad assistant. Only Bevk has the word. Let's get the mags ready. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I am very sorry that the mandate of the minority government, led by the President of the second largest parliamentary party, Marjan Sarec, ends prematurely. This was the first minority government in recent Slovenian history or in the independent and independent Republic of Slovenia. The leadership of the country was literally pushed by Prime Minister Marjan Šarec, who is currently engaged in ongoing business, into the hands of the President of the largest opposition party, Janez Janša, who, this time relatively quickly and without special efforts, will be able to form a government, his third. Let's see what we put on the cheap sale. The country has adopted budgets for 2020 and 2021, which are the highest in the history of Slovenia. In addition, both budgets have a budgetary surplus. Slowly, but there is also a steady decline in the country's indebtedness in this mandate. Slovenia has higher economic growth than the average growth of the European Union and the euro area. We have the lowest unemployment since the great crisis, and we have not had this low unemployment for more than 20 years. In the last quarter of 2019, it was barely 4.0%. In the last month before the new year, 41,000 people were unemployed and 980 000 were employed. A few years ago, there were more than 130 thousand unemployed people in the country. We have raised the minimum wage, we have raised wages in the public sector, and wages have also risen in the economy. For 10 years there has not been as much reconciliation between pensions and the month of February, as much as 3.2 per cent with the reimbursement. We sold it out without an election, which is as angry as possible. First of all, due to the client Levica who withdraws support from the government, and finally due to the collapse of the LMŠ team and the completely wrong calculation of the President of the Government and his advisers. The work thus remained unfinished, although we had many projects prepared to further increase the well-being of people and to accelerate the development of our society. It is likely that John Janša will be able to form a third government, which he himself will lead. With the first two I have a personal experience of what he'll show in the third, we'll only see. In 2004, President Janša formed a similar government, only this time the Slovenian People's Party replaced the Modern Centre Party, thus moving right from the centre. Interestingly, the United List of Social Democrats was also invited to the government at that time, which surprised many. At that time, we decided to be a constructive opposition and to cooperate with the government coalition on important national issues. In April 2006, all parliamentary parties, both Members of the Nationality, with the exception of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, signed the so-called Partnership for Development. I recall that, as first-signed Member of Parliament in 2008, it was through partnership that I managed to pass the cultural euro law through the parliamentary procedure. I was a lot less pleased with John Janša’s second government. At that time, the unfortunate merger of the school and cultural ministries was very obvious, and especially the Public Finance Balance Act, which was largely unnecessary, wrong and further deepened the crisis in the country today. The easiest thing to do was to go after the three largest aggregates of public spending: salaries of public servants, pensions and social transfers. Although this has made it easy to save, it has reached into the quality of the public sector and has only reached those who are among the weak in our society, and this was the wrong way back then. We know how the Government's mandate with a constructive confidence ended at the end of February 2013. The reason for this was the KPC report that the presidents of the largest parliamentary parties, Janez Janša and Zoran Jankovic, violated anti-corruption legislation. What the third government of Janez Janša will bring is a big puzzle. In view of the modest coalition agreement, both in scope and content, it is likely that it will only try to complete its mandate, to preside over the Council of the European Union and to implement the state budgets adopted by the outgoing government and some other majority in the National Assembly. Social Democrats will be a clear, critical and decisive opposition. I myself, as a member of the opposition, worked for more than 9 years in the governments led by Dr. Janez Drnovšek, Dr. Andrej Bajuk and Janez Janša. That is why I can say that I will also support those proposals of the coalition that will benefit people and the country. But it is clear that I will not support this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić. Let's get Gobbler ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, everyone! Comrade Bevk, who spoke before me, says SMC is moving to the right. Thanks to the microphone assigned to my name, I also claim that this is not a shift from the environment in which we are also geometrically located. My decision to support this government was neither simple nor unconditional nor self-sustaining. There were doubts, reservations. In making this decision, I have always realized how ungrateful it is in an ideological society such as ours to choose a path that is betting on integration and to overcome contradictions. The consequences of this decision are a number of public pressures and an apriorous rejection of the Left-Right Coalition, which is not rare in the developed world. The difficulty of this decision has further strengthened the fact that my friends and colleagues are on the one hand and on the other. Some cannot agree with the SMC's decision to join the new coalition, while others support this entry. And I respect the opinions of both sides, because there are many people on both sides that I have traveled together over the past six years. This path continues in the direction of the new government coalition. The customer of the modern centre is not responsible for the fall of the government of Marjan Šarca. Others took care of it. With today's action, if the government is confirmed, SMC will assume a great deal of responsibility for working in the new government. Nevertheless, this government may open the way to slightly different political thinking, and the SMC is determined to be a strong defender of all the values it has advocated so far. We must learn to be more respectful and willing to cooperate with those who seem very different from ourselves. We opted for less than two solutions offered. I believe that, and this is also the opinion of a number of political analysts, that even early elections would not create greater political stability in the country than we have now. The surrender of the current prime minister has led to the formation of the government today. This surrender, Mr Šarc's resignation, has overtaken the efforts of all of us, despite never better national prosperity and, above all, exceptional media support to the government. She hit something else, overwhelmed the dignity and desire of the clients of the moderate left block to work in the spirit of agreed principles by the end of this term. We learned about the withdrawal from the media, as if it were the collapse of some government in the region, not the government in which we were called an equivalent article. Therefore, we have not agreed to a passive observation of a well-thought-out scenario whereby, at the expense of taxpayers, a coalition soloist would be able to compensate for the political agreement by strengthening his power. Of course, how much political stability the new government will bring will depend on all of us, Members, including ministers of the SMC. In this government, we will be a factor of integration and a factor of stability. We guarantee that the government's support will be conditioned primarily by its state-of-the-art operation and by overcoming ideological contradictions. We are aware that this will not be an easy task, we are also aware of possible traps and we are aware of our responsibilities. Nor do we pretend that anyone from SDS or New Slovenia would cross into SMC. We are aware of our differences, so we see our role in the divisive political space in bringing together the parties whose common objectives are to strengthen social well-being and to end the hostile and offensive rhetoric, without regard to the past and the surviving divisions that feed on the suggestive reinterpretation of historical facts from the right as well as from the left. The Coalition Treaty is a list of commitments for the period ahead. We contributed almost half of its content to the SMC. And just as we were united in our decision of accession in the Group of Members, we are also united that, in the event of deviations, we should, of course, point out that, and if nothing changes, we should leave the coalition. I therefore believe that we have control levers and continue to be able to carry out our mission, which is to build an even better society based on social and liberal ideas. The guardian is also a commitment that no procedure in the government or coalition will begin without the consent of all coalition partners. This will be an important contribution from a modern central party. I really believe that all of us who vote for this government today will be able to protect and preserve those values that the SMC has also advocated throughout its existence: decent youth and age, just reward work, culture, sustainable development in a secure environment, humanity and prosperity for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word has Željko Cigler, get Susanna Pretty Šimenka ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The opposition to the takeover of the new government by proposed mandate-holder Janez Janša and the Slovenian Democratic Party cannot be understood as throwing pollen under the feet. Not as expressed by the Slovenian public, citizens and an important part of the Members of this Parliament, but as a result of historical experience with politics, which is proven to be the only one able to practice a candidate for a term of office to be voted on today. This is a policy of discrimination, exclusion, hate speech, threats, repression, attacks on the rule of law, the judiciary, the police, the media and journalists. It is the practice of continually subjugating democratic institutions – to whom and what, I wonder. He only wants power, power and decision in his hands. The state is taken as its prey. Sorry, there is no room in such a policy and there is no dialogue and democratic coordination. This is a form if you don't agree with me, you're our enemy. I repeat, if you don't agree with me, you're our enemy, and you've been expelled from his circle. This is a practice that has remained unchanged since Janez and I were friends and co-workers in the framework of the Republic Conference of the Union of Socialist Youth 34 years ago. She's not changed. And the result of economic and social policy and the dialogue that this mandate holder achieved between 2004 and 2008, when he led the first government, is all the more than an argument for his approval. This is particularly the case with the high external obligation imposed by the government led by the candidate for the new mandate at the time of the Slovenian conjuncture. The interest and capital of this political legacy contribute significantly to the fact that today there is no money for pensions, no money for new homes for pensioners, public health, jobs, housing and the lives of young people. And because of such a policy, young people are increasingly protesting in front of the National Assembly, and because there is no serious political response, many are disappointed, are resigning to leave Slovenia. Not just because you're looking for jobs and better wages. How long will the psyche of candidate for mandate Janez Janša endure before returning to the practice of the undemocratic political receptions that I have outlined in the introductions and are neither accepted by the domestic nor by the foreign civil and political public. All those who today will support Janez Janša's candidacy as Prime Minister, based on clear warnings that it is a verifiable and clear civilisation and a political step backwards, are taking your part in political responsibility. I will not give my vote for this term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Susanna Pretty Šimenka has the word to prepare for Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. In August 2018, unlike what we heard here today by Mr Janez Janša, we heard Mr Marjan Šarc's very brief presentation as a mandate-holder, in which he said, among other things, problems can be feared or seen as a challenge. There were problems, and there were a lot of them left. But I'm afraid Marjan Sarec no longer saw them as a challenge. Jumping into the pool, without first making sure if there is any water or not in it, has no longer proved to be a good tactic. Of what kind of person he is, after all, he tells the most about his way out, the way that he did not even get to know his coalition partners about his intended resignation. Of course, that's unacceptable. More than clearly, it is clear that one is playing and imitating politicians, and the other is being a politician, being a statesman. And actually be a policy and such a policy, which actually has the confidence of many citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and is ultimately also valued and prominent in the international environment. For Mr Janez Janša, we can certainly say that he is such a politician. Mr. Marjan Sarec – for him, at the time of his resignation, the foreign media did not even bring a real photograph. Today's presentation by Mr Janez Janša was a real embalming for the ears, given what we have been used to listening to over the past years by the Prime Minister of the Government. And I believe that what has been exposed today will also be done, of course, with the help of all coalition partners. That is why I am really pleased that coherent regional development will no longer be just a dead point on paper, that something will actually be done to reduce bureaucracy in Slovenia, that we will actually decentralise Slovenia, rather than centralise it more annually. I am also pleased that family policy will be separated from social policy. Finally, we will finally get some more needed home for the elderly if we know that through public means the last one was built during the first Janša government. I am pleased, of course, that there is a awareness that Slovenia's prosperity depends primarily on a well-functioning economy. The coming coalition will also work in this direction. I'd like to say one last thing. It is very easy to be a good politician in the left-wing government and to be a politician in the right-wing government because of all the attacks coming from the left-hand side, an extremely difficult and extraordinary challenge. I believe that our coalition partners have witnessed this in the past days, and in some ways I wish them so much more will. I also believe that once they have learned the operationality of the government led by Mr Janez Janša, they will somehow be able to overcome all these obstacles and possible new distortions. I wish Mr Janez Janša, of course, a successful job as future Prime Minister of the Government, and we all have a successful job here in the National Council for the Welfare of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word is Nik Prebil, to prepare Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Yeah, we got one show right here today. Look, this morning when I woke up, I was wondering why I went to politics and what my principles were. First of all, because I still hope that young people who are unburdened with some old policy, stories and sharing, and respected colleagues, can trust me that with me, after all, I am the only one in this National Assembly born in Slovenia alone, and that this policy is a policy that is always leaking to the surface, the policy of old personal interests, namely, the passports and that young people who think about the future and can also help with cooperation and constructive work, or, if you want, help the development of our country. And secondly, because unfortunately we are still under-devoting ourselves to key issues in our country. Today's process is certainly perfectly legitimate and normal democratic process, no one denies it. In any case, we respect the decisions of the political parties as well as in the LMŠ. In fact, mutual respect and respect for decisions is essential for an appropriate relationship in all institutions. This certainly does not mean that I understand or agree with certain decisions. The situation that we do have has led to a struggle for political survival and the existence and what some Members are doing today actually reminds us of the tragedy. Dear Mrs Slug, who is not in the hall anymore, said that people have chosen her to talk. But she forgets that people then elected her or her client because she said that the government led by John Janš did not go. And Mr. Only Bevk says the LMSH is falling apart, far from that. But the breakup is probably somewhere else, and we can agree on that. Extradition of its own principles and, above all, of the electorate and duality are so grotesque today, and I only hope that people remember. And once again, yes, we have different interests, we have different ideologies and it is right that we also face them in this temple of democracy, but in the way that it was written in the pre-election programme and in the way that we promised the electorate. Otherwise, it's time for early elections. And since we are obviously not going to be at this point until the end of the term, let me now touch the candidate and the coalition contracts. Despite the fact that the elections are secret, I say, like some others, that I will not support the candidate. However, I cannot support it in particular because the candidate indirectly or directly violates some basic democratic foundations. In view of what has been seen in the draft coalition agreement, I wonder where all those high-sung measures and the singing reforms that the SDS party has been throwing under our noses all the time, if nothing has been done. Under point 2 in this draft coalition contract, you rely on young people, but look at the fractions, then mention them in the entire text only in one word, where young people touch their homes. The candidate, a fellow Member, said in his address how many number of laws and sub-laws we have in this country, but six months ago, you, your respected colleagues from the SDS and some others who are leaving, saw the government's case as it was not enough laws and amendments. But maybe she was only doing more effectively, who knows. Finally, the minority government under the leadership of Marjan Sarca – and yes, compromises were needed, we all know that, a number of coordinations, it was difficult – took some measures, in particular budget 2020-2021, shows surpluses, we have raised pensions, with tax reconstruction we have unloaded the work, we have also unloaded the regression from which we all have employees, and I think that we can agree here, all of us, we have abolished the austerity measures in the area of family benefits, we have set up a number of national areas and we have taken other measures. I'm not going to discuss details and numbers today because I think it's time. Yes, desire is great, and reality is often different. Look, the evaluation of the work of the new Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the written commitments will, of course, be done when you finish your work. Above all, your actions will be judged by the electorate. Our house, i.e. LMŠ, stands on solid foundations of values, on the foundations that are strongly held by Members and on the community of people who make up LMŠ, and we will also be following the work of the opposition constructively. I could say a lot more, and I will conclude that some of my colleagues will get the chance. With great interest, I will truly monitor the work of the incoming government and the parties who have entered this government, and I will, as I am now, clearly warn and oppose those measures that I will consider harmful to the country and will support those that will be appropriate, because this is a national act. We've been chosen by people for people, and I'm going to stick to that as long as I'm here. Some of them, or maybe you've forgotten that a long time ago. Yeah, yeah, well, nice wrapped candy looks great at first sight, but when you bite it down, you may regret that sometimes there's a bitter taste. I, Mr candidate, although he is not here now, want a successful work in particular for the benefit of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to respond to Mr Pavšić's debate in the List of Marjan Šarc, which has been a problem with the position of the New Slovenia Group, which I presented in the introduction, which, of course, is in conflict with the Rules of Procedure, of course I could not replicate it, so I am taking advantage of these few minutes. I kind of understood that he was making fun of me when I announced that we would withdraw our law on intervention measures to stabilise the public health system. Look, that makes perfect sense. It's perfectly logical. We have had some discussions with the parliamentary groups, including the LMŠ, thank you all for having us, including with the professional public, believe, also with international experts, and have found that this law can be improved. As you know, it was not written by us, but by the Slovenian profession, namely the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. In addition, it must be rightly added that this time is coming to a new coalition or new government, and we want the law to go through, so we will put this improved law on the table to study whether it is acceptable for all of us, for all of us, for the four of us. Then, very quickly, we can take some really concrete measures to shorten waiting species. Other alternative proposals have not been made by the outgoing government and we simply do not see them anywhere. I wish, dear colleagues and colleagues in the future opposition, that, despite all that we are political competitors, there is that urgent attitude, and that is respect. Even if at the substantive level, perhaps through some agreement, we do not yet know what we will deal with in the coalition, through an agreement on the development of Slovenia or whatever we will tell him, what has happened in the 2004-2008 mandate. I'd really like us to walk in here together. I accept the obvious that some things are not written down. We can also write only one sentence in the coalition contract to work and work for the good of the people, in conscience, with all our strength, and to respect the constitutional order, the peak. It's a signed contract. It's simply not a four-year coalition contract, you know, it's a big difference if you're doing a four-year coalition contract or, as I said, an effective time if I just consider preparing and just presiding over the Council of the European Union, an effective time for this government to have just a few years. If we find common nouns also with the opposition, there will be much to be done during this time, especially in those areas that are simply somehow lagging behind, there has been no movement in the last few years. I also hope that, of course, this is now related to elections that will, I hope, be regular in the middle of 2022, that now Slovenian voters, citizens and citizens have learned one fact, and that when new faces come into politics, they can easily win, of course, given that they have strong media support, otherwise they cannot. There is no other way that anything out of some political anonymity can turn to the highest levels of government. If you have this, you succeed, and so you are a new face, as we say, in Slovenian politics. Nobody's even watching the program. What we've seen – and I don't want to deal with anyone right now, that's not my style – has recently proved that the program of these new faces is just exclusion. This is the wrong direction, this is the wrong policy direction. I hope this will end one day. And also, colleagues and colleagues, I am now speaking on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, if you have ever noticed that we have done anything wrong, you have made a mistake in the role of the opposition, please do not do this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc, get Franz Breznik ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! It's not exactly a positive trip. I find it hard to see things from a positive perspective today. Not only because the Social Democrats have diametrically opposite political positions and values as a party who will obviously take over government leadership today, but it is perfectly normal for a position and opposition to be created. And the Social Democrats will be absolutely in this new composition of the opposition. And it's a loud and clear opposition. Something else I am deeply worried about - that the government will get the majority, at least today it shows, based on the fraud of the electorate and the electorate. In fact, you will all remember that at least two parties to the future government coalition before the elections and after the elections speak very clearly and loudly and represent the view that they will not enter the government with Janez Janša under any circumstances. Today the situation is different. Today, just two parties from the so-called left-handed sex will take the floor and obviously support the great leader Janez Janša as the president of the new Slovenian government. It is not just that some Members have broken the word, which is absolutely legitimate, but that you will put a man at the head of the country whom you spoke very negatively about. Let me quote my colleague from SMC: “Grims is a fine representation of Slovenia in case of victory of SDS – tablets and hallucinations”. I quote: “By the way, is Riedl still sitting in Austria for bribery of Zagozna and SDS?” I quote: “Today there are no comments about the content of the law, about the rehabilitation, about the health of people, there is no content, only personal discrimination everywhere. What they only know in SDS. Next, it's all empty." Igor Zorčič of SMC answers to a colleague from SDS, quote: “Representatives do not associate and cooperate with a criminal mile from Republika Srpska as some do with you and your party, who with such even enters into a contract to finance the upcoming elections”. I don't know, respectable colleagues and colleagues, but these are really serious accusations: "acquainting with a criminal mile". If you mean it, I wonder what's right and where we're going. Is there any other political culture in Slovenia? You were saying that this is a client associated with a criminal mile, and today you're going to support this client. I don't have the words. I can't believe this is possible, but it's obvious. I do not want to assess today the compatibility of the client programming guidelines of the future coalition. We can certainly say that there is no compatibility at first sight, but one other fact shows that this so-singed environment is clearly much easier to step into a coalition with the right, even with a radical right, with a right, even at European level, in the eyes of the European People's Party radically than with the left, advanced, progressive forces. I am afraid that this will be another typical right-wing government, as we have already been trained, which will reduce the social state in exchange for lowering the taxes of the richest and introducing new potential soups that will weaken public systems, public education, public health, we have heard a lot about this in the past. I'm afraid of being influenced by the media. As early as 30 years ago, Mr Janša announced that he would sing to Slovenian journalism. I'm afraid national RTV will replace Nova 24 TV, run from Budapest. I fear the resurgence of the idea of restricting access to contraception and restricting abortion. I fear that the government will persecute all those who believe in climate change to re-write the history of World War II, that those who cooperated with the invader, with the greatest evil of the 20th century, fascism and Nazism, will become the heroes of Slovenia. And I fear that, after all, Budapest will be declared the closest alliance with the neighbouring regime to the capital. Ladies and gentlemen, I am truly shocked that something like this can only happen because of the fact that some Members have extended their term of office for two years. Unfortunately, apparently today this is becoming a fact, and I believe that voters and voters see what is going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Franz Breznik has the word to prepare Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u66	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Slovenia will fall within 14 days under Budapest – this is today's message and the content message from Comrade Koprivac. It explains that his party is diametrically opposed to the Slovenian Democratic Party. I looked at the Slovenian Democratic Party programme again today, I just looked at the speech of the candidate for mandate in the video - he talked about human rights, he talked about the inclusion of all the political currents for the welfare of Slovenia, he talked about human rights, he talked about freedom of speech, he talked about high technologies, he also talked about high technologies that would go to the benefit of so-called climate justice, where high technologies could be used to have a whole range of technological solutions in Slovenia, and with these technological solutions, they could save more people's well-being and, on the other hand, we could continue to sell green, clean countries that would go around the world. Koprivc, what is the diametric opposite of this? So what does your client represent? As an engineer, I remember mega-Romanian socialist projects in Kidrichev. We still don't know where the red mud is buried. Thousands of sick people from Anhove, thousands of people who have fallen ill and will be sick in your so-called kingdom around Velenya, for which taxpayers have given more than a billion and a half. So this is the other part of the policy that promises another Slovenia. You've had hundreds of opportunities and opportunities to do something. You were 45 years old, your role models had total power, then you were in almost every government, and I don't know any solution. What is important, and what is most unfortunate today, is that a person learns. A person goes through different periods and customers go through different periods. Colleagues from SMC and a colleague from Desus with whom you have now been in the coalition, you resent, you resent that they're selling and I don't know what they're all about. If we looked at the coalition contract, if we looked at the programmes of these parties, which form a possible new coalition, we could identify the same points of reference of these parties. If you remember when I was at the SMC Congress when Mr. Restovalšek became president of this party, I was talking about the same points that the SDS has, not least colleagues from New Slovenia, in the field of digitisation, demobilization and so on. At that time, I even commended the client, but it did not show any framework, no possible coalition. Similarly, colleagues from Desus understand. Without a developed economy, without a real social state, not a socialist state, what you are offering, these are two great differences, respected colleagues. Socialism is where those who do the most take almost everything and give to those who do little. It's socialism. But the social state is that you create that we all create in it, except for those who are deprived of it because of their health, age, or whatever happens. This is a social state and such a social state is strengthening and developing our wider country of the European Union. And what you are doing is anti-European, most of these policies, especially anti-European, non-democratic exclusion policy. And one more thing, I'm going to conclude with this, is that those of you who have ruled out will be expelled in the long run, this will be God's judgment. We are all here after 30 years of getting out of transition puberty and working for the good of this country, for the well-being of its citizens and its well-being. God lives Slovenia, God lives on the mandate of Mr. Janez Janša and God lives on a new government! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u67	Thank you very much. He's got a word for Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Yeah, it's a tough fight for power, but it's not exactly the electorate's will. How do I view this situation alone? I will read what I have prepared because I did not go to high school, and I would speak unrelatedly, according to former Member and journalist Mir Petk. Yes, this is the man who convicted an innocent doctor 26 years ago with a written word. While I have seen the new government programme in recent days, I am aware of the current coalition, with some addition, such as recruitment, the privatisation of public health and education, and perhaps more. The fact is that Slovenia's priorities have long been known. At the same time, I wondered about some of the apparent current opposition or right-wing supporters that our government did not have a programme, did not act and has nothing to show. That is what Mr Zorčič, Mrs Slug, said publicly today, and perhaps one of the Members. I wonder whether all those, including the former partners of the current coalition, namely SMC and Desus, deny achievements such as: the abolition of the ZUJF measures, the successful negotiations with the public sector unions that were interrupted by the previous government, the rise of many social transfers, which we devote 13% of the budget to social transfers in this country, to eliminating the poverty threshold, raising the unpaid 13th salary, this is a regression, raising the minimum wage that gradually eliminates poverty, and from this to a higher pension in the future, the "fair pay for honest work" is also my personal password. We gave this mirror to entrepreneurship and good consequences for people will come from this minimum wage, you can remember that. We have carried out a minimum tax reform to keep professional staff in Slovenia, and what measures can be taken from this. Raise pensions by reducing backlogs from the past, similarly raising averages to municipalities by decommissioning certain tasks. We have calmed the health situation and given better working conditions and awards to both doctors and nurses and technicians. Shortening waiting periods is on the way. We're just deceiving? We must not forget this because, unfortunately, ineffective information systems are only gradually involved in certain programmes and not all are still covered. And that's how this number grows because of it, not because waiting periods would grow. The burden on books, and much more so: increasing the competitiveness of the economy, tourism and agriculture, growth is twice, three times higher than in Germany, as the average of the European Union should be even higher. we can always set higher goals or have them, but because of certain problems we do not achieve them. To mention only the launch of 3 important infrastructure projects, such as the second tunnel, the second track, the third development axis, the modernisation of railways and much more, there is a lot of this. At the same time, two successive sustainable budgets with surpluses. Two budgets that reduce public financial debt in Slovenia. We certainly recognise that, with good economic conditions, we are in the implementation of the record 2020-2021 budget with over-average growth, with surpluses, with debt reduction. Yes, a well-placed country handed over to you and let it develop well in the future. I wonder, Members of the SMC, Desus, whether you were not there to achieve these objectives. I'm just asking because you're still here today saying that this coalition was in words, not in action. Unfortunately, however, we have not carried out any major projects that have already been carried out through several governments, such as a comprehensive reform of health care with long-term care, demographic fund, housing fund, infrastructure fund and what else could be listed, which has now been somehow interrupted. Of course, this is where the problem arises. How can these projects be implemented in order to be financially sustainable? Even in the promises of the future coalition programme, there are quite a few measures that will burden the budget for which there are some 100 million, I have calculated myself because this has not been seen. And this is where the devil goes, as we call it. I fear that the future government will only endanger Slovenia's fiscal rule by implementing the programme measures and will not be able to implement these measures unless it takes them elsewhere. Of course, that was not said today. You're talking about rationalization of work, about ministries, about public institutions. If you adopt 614 government laws in the new mandate, as you did in the period 2004-2008, then I see no possibility of rationalisation, but additional complications. It's not rationalization in quantity, it's quality. Our government has adopted 113 so far. The implementation of comprehensive reforms requires a significantly higher financial contribution. We were aware of this in the current government, and you are aware of it in your future government. The solution is mainly in two, three directions. Productivity growth is an additional value to achieve at least an average of the European Union. Secondly, raising taxes and contributions to the level of more developed countries. Thirdly, of course, rationalisation remains in all areas, and this is a permanent task that all governments in the world are carrying out, and we must remain competitive in this area. I expected your programme to be based on the goals already set by the Slovenian economy on Brdo 2018. A GDP increase of more than 30 000 per capita in Slovenia, which would be an average of the European Union. An additional increase of 60 000 per employee, which would be an average of the European Union. On the performance of the economy – raising average wages above EUR 2 000 gross per employee. The additional value includes wages, profits and depreciation, i.e. the tax and development base. If we reach the average of the European Union in these areas, we will be able to raise the current EUR 2 000 per capita for health care to EUR 3 000, we will be able to retain staff, make the necessary investments in health care and more. With these objectives we will fill all four cash registers and there will be no need to raise taxes, taxes which we must keep in Slovenia. With us, the tax ceiling on corporate income tax is 19%, with entrepreneurs paying 25% in Austria and 30% in Germany and even more in some developed countries. I am talking about the tax and capital flight from Slovenia, which investors do not pay in our country with subsidies and incentives. With us, they achieve even higher productivity with half wages: Where, then, are the profits and each salary going? To a foreign country where these companies are proud to pay high-income taxes at a high level, and this is a rich country. We managed to set a rate of 7% profit tax, at least some of it remains in Slovenia. Unfortunately, we are still a developing country and will continue to escape capital and taxes for a long time until domestic entrepreneurship goes hand in hand with competition and respects its country in which it is created and lived. I greatly appreciate every entrepreneur who reaches the added value above the Slovenian average, i.e. over €45 000, and pays home taxes on profits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word Primoz Siter has to prepare Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, say good-bye! The macropolitical fact is that the world is also moving to the right at several points and Europe is also moving to the right. A few weeks ago, I participated in a round table with high school students, where it was clear to them, that was their starting point to continue the debate moving in the right direction. Here we have the privatization of health, here we have this hate speech, here we have these political ideologies that are openly flirting with fascism and so on, in short, that is a fact. And today we are talking about SDS as some kind of parade horse of this new coalition, like a right-wing party, some extreme right-wing party that has its right-wing partners in the east, Hungary, and its right-wing, clearly in love with fascism, partners in Italy. But in fact, hand to heart, SDS and their protagonist aren't really the right party. In fact, Janez Janša is more than a right-wing opportunist in the entire spectrum of his political career. That's what his political career story is about. When it was modern to be a communist, he was a communist. When it was modern, in quotes, waking up from this communist dream, he was an anti-communist, defending human rights. Then it was modern to be a socialdemocrat, he was a socialdemocrat. Then he was a neoliberal because it was modern and sexy. And now that some of the wider forces are moving to the right, globals, he has decided that right-wing man will be able to implement his right-wing policies in Slovenia, face some extremes and so on. And this is the head of one strong but one political party in Slovenia at the moment. What's worrying is that this isn't the only party that's going this way. She's not the only party who's openly opportunistic in her political narrative. In fact, if we show a mirror to a lot of customers here today, we can read the opportunism beautifully and clearly. Alenka Bratušek and collector, SMC – we have talked about you for a long time today, LMŠ and Črnčec, SD and TEZ 6, and Desus also left block. In short, I'm asking myself here where the citizens are. On the one hand, we talk about nonconsistency, real opportunism, we go where the wind blows, and on the other hand we have some political force, which adheres to its programme and goal, but it is marked as a non-cooperational, political infantile, antipolitical whole. I wonder where the electorate is now, some citizen to support. He doesn't really know, he doesn't really care who he supports, because then it's all a matter of dialogue. In this case, dialogue with someone who doesn't hide his extremes, who doesn't hide his flirtation with those who flirt, about my God, let me be religious, with the fascists. But as I understand it, it is now modern to be an entrepreneur and it is also worth it, as we have seen from Janša's opening remarks, to look like a company where investment policies are important, the other is social. But the state doesn't run like a company. The state is run like a country. Ergo, this government won't really be new. This government will continue the policies that we have seen in the last 30 years, we have the same faces now, nor can we go on this map of new faces for old policies, but it will only be a little better spiced up by its hatred, which is so vehemently expanded through the Slovenian media space. If you don't know what I'm talking about and how responsibly it is, go look at the facebook Natasha Sukič. Two hours ago, she spoke, mentioned the protection of minorities, and immediately she was swept away by a reptile of critics with a dictionary that she would not repeat here. If you don't know what I'm talking about, look at the facebook of the man who, after that thing with that shirt that upset the Slovenian public, personally threatened to cut my throat. See with logos which political parties have equipped their facebook. In Levika, we are not some kind of jugonostalgic, we are not taking Yugoslav socialism for reference in the design of our programme of democratic and ecological socialism, but to conclude, it would be much better if Janez Janša did not change colors if John Janša was not such a political opportunist if Janez Janša continued where he began – in socialism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič. Get ready. Excuse me, replica. [[…]] Mag. Marko Koprivc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Very briefly, a replica of Comrade Sitar and Mr. Breznik. As for TES 6, just to clarify the fact that we will not be fooling around here. The TES 6 project started at the time of the Janša government, and then an environmental permit was issued and all the key contracts were signed. These are facts, so please don't laugh. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič, to prepare Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. That's a nice hello to all of us! The modern centre was a stable and constructive member of this coalition. This also proves immediate, although only through media-mediated calls from Mr Šarc, who invited us to the joint elections. This media invitation later proved, unfortunately, to be very unrealistic and humiliating for SMC. But our President, Mr Zdravko Restoršek, has repeatedly made it clear and loudly that we will not break the coalition. But if anyone else is going to tear it down, we're going to talk to everyone. That's what we did. In many e - mails and articles, some have mentioned the issue of our electorate. I believe that the electorate did not send us here to Parliament so that we would not cooperate and not talk to each other. And if anyone mentions treason, then it's the other way around, because if we can believe the polls that showed us 0.5% a few months ago despite the hard and honest work, then the issue is reversed. But in these days, at least in my area there are several of them that reach into my hands, because we have exceeded the divisions and agreed on a number of necessary measures, laws and projects, without ideological themes, Mr Koprivc. In Slovenia, we are too few to share constantly, at every point. We need to move on and work together. I must point out that SMC remains a left-handed party. We're not going to the right, not the left, not the back, but go ahead. These are the words of our President, who we take very seriously. Even though we went to the second coalition, we remain in the same socio-liberal positions, we have already stressed this several times today. We will defend and approve nothing that would throw Slovenia into the past and behind. Our views remain true to what we have been advocating for all the years of our operation: effective public health, quality public education, modernisation of infrastructure, increased investment in the economy, building homes for older people, urgent long-term care, helping young people to solve housing problems and could even list them. We don't take responsibility as opposed to the Left, our current out-of-compartment partner. For it is most easy to promise, to blackmail, and then not to take any responsibility. Before I entered politics, I imagined it just as much – that for the well-being of the state and citizens we can come together all the representatives of the people. Unfortunately, this has happened extremely rarely in this current term of office. But in the game of all these overheated emotions, he won dialogue and reason. Before my final decision, of course, I also weighed local and regional projects. What can happen to us at any new elections for a longer time or even fall into the water? In particular, we have in mind the quick road Ormož-Hajdin, the emergency centre of Ptuj, the necessary investors in the local environment and so on. For projects that are crucial for the development of our region, I am ready to compromise. For those of you who can't possibly agree with the upcoming coalition and the government, let me say, a new early election wouldn't solve anything. Voter participation would be even lower than usual. Of course, the extreme right hand would have obtained a percentage more because of all the promises, and the same would have happened on the far right. The left doesn't want to go to the government. You obviously don't want many to go to the right. But then how do we put together a new coalition and government? How do we rule out left-wings like that? There's not enough of us in the middle. I've never ruled anyone out or despised myself. And I won't do that in the future. Only together can we succeed, they were, they are, and they will be my common words. And I wasn't elected by the electorate to tell anyone I wasn't going to the coalition or the government. Plus, the new coalition will be a coalition of four parties and not just one. And three of these four have a majority in the government, we have nine ministers. And three of these four are central or left-centred, so we can't possibly say that it's just the right-wing government. Finally, I have another wish and hope that the future Prime Minister of the Government will withdraw from the action against his own country, which he will also lead. The 13th government was unlucky. I hope she has the next one who wrote her coalition contract on 13 pages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Boris Doblekar has the word to prepare Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. What a fantastic day today! Respectable candidate for Prime Minister of the Government, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! I'll hurry with the debate. As my colleague said before me, the 13th government, of course, collapsed because of its unserious work, lack of cooperation, lack of dialogue and different divisions and so on. But the government was not able to drive Slovenia along a paved path, nor was the President of the Government, who was more than joking and performing a role, unworthy to the Prime Minister of the Government. We've also seen a lot of stories with these new faces. We have seen that this does not drink water, and let us hope that this will end. Now we're listening to a lot of insults, strange words, strike connections, from fascisms, I don't know anything. This is such a disaster. On the part of the Slovenian Democratic Party, you have never heard this and you will never hear it. And if you talk like that and poison young people, and that's what the media are saying, I'm not afraid that nothing will be better in Slovenia. I am very much on the ground among people, among young people, pensioners, sick people, taxpayers, users of infrastructure and services of the country, and I can only say that everyone wants a new government to be formed as soon as possible, not to go on to some new and new elections, but to form a government as soon as possible, on the left, right, middle, upper, lower, from all sides. So as soon as possible a government, an operational government, a government that will work for the welfare of people in Slovenia. And we will get such a government along with certain parties after the conversation. So far, it has been forgotten that the economy gives bread to people, that full budget, that workers pay contributions, and not low contributions, and then we see what health care they run into, what pensions and so on. The security of the country is still important. Work will become valuable. The ideology for the Slovenian Democratic Party is the constitution. And that, of course, with the new Prime Minister here, is not gonna be a joke, it won't be if it doesn't, it won't be. That's not gonna happen. There will be order and discipline and, of course, serious work for the well-being of all Slovenes and Slovenes. Of course, I ask and call on you, given that you will be a constructive opposition, to cooperate, you also have a hand of cooperation offered, that is to say, to cooperate and that you are a constructive substantive opposition, not an ideological one. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The word has Eva Irgl to prepare for Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I am now about 16 years old, if I may put it this way, political companion Janez Janša. And, of course, with certainty, based on the experience I have, both when we were in the coalition and when we were in the opposition, I can assess that this is an extremely capable policy, a prudent policy, a person who is wise and trying to work for the good and for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It seems important to me to say that it is also an integration policy and also an inclusive policy, which it has recently proved in the first term when we formed the so-called partnership for development. And then, of course, the deadline was offered to the opposition, and then we wrote a number of laws with the Social Democrats, and then we confirmed them in the National Assembly. And what's different than involvement and integration. I am really glad today that if Mr Janez Janša is confirmed in the vote, he will once again become Prime Minister of the Government. Why? Because, under his leadership, we have already adopted important changes in people's well-being in the past, particularly in the 2004-2008 mandate. And I believe that's how it's going to be under this government. Finally, the new coalition that will come together and also the coalition agreement prove that we are capable of connecting. This is precisely the main and key evidence. Today, as we can see, in the government there will be both the left-hand parties and the right-hand parties, and that is integration. And that's what we've been expecting for years to happen so that we can all work together for the common good, for the Slovenes and the Slovenians. To do and implement those key projects that are needed and are now somehow asleep. It is important that we today are able to overcome this division and that we are united in the challenges and measures that this country urgently needs. I know that, John Janša, if I say so, does not need to, but I do want to say this at this point that I have the utmost respect for his attitude and his will to respect my perseverance, because despite more than 20 years of demonization, humiliation, regret, evaluation, instigation remains an upright man, remains a rebellious man and insists on insisting on this because Slovenia wants good. And such an attitude cannot possibly stem from hatred, but it can only come from love for Slovenia and its citizens. I wish the President of the Government, if he is elected today, to do his job well and to have his government team of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in front of him all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The following is Mr Boštjan Koražija, and Mr Marijan Pojbič is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u80	Your Honor, thank you for saying so. Today we could really call the day of the game numbers. As Mr Logar mentioned earlier, today is 3. 3, the establishment of the third Janša government, Mr Janša, has been active in Slovenian politics for over 30 years, is nearing a big night. Then this number 3 and 33 is particularly symbolic and weighty, since Jesus was crossed at the age of thirty - thirty. The numbers may be quite coincidental, but the problem I want to raise here today is that Mr Janša wants to keep himself, and this is very clever, to display as a suffering savior who has the only truth in possession. We Christians already have a savior, and we do not need a new one. At the same time, I'd say maybe someone else needs him. But we need a human, inclusive, capable and, above all, fair prime minister of the government. After my recent political experiences, I have also learned that this long-standing political mandate has completely separated a number of individuals from the reality of everyday life. Mr Janša, your past statements, direct or through social networks, and your operation and the operation of your client is overcome with so much hatred for this or that minority or majority group, your exclusion, humiliation, intimidation, homophobia, which I have also experienced; all of this gives me great concern, especially for those who are weak, ignored and suppressed at the edge of our society. Mr. Janša, as a traveler to your premiere journey, I would like to remind you of this well-known account of Matthew’s Gospel when it was said to those who enter: “For I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty, you gave me drink, I was a stranger, and you accepted me, I was naked, and you clothed me, I was sick, and you visited me. Whatever you've done to one of my smallest brothers, you've done to me." [[…]] This account speaks of the impartiality of those who work well, their mildness toward those who are in need of help. Unfortunately, there are too many people in trouble in our country. There are many others standing at our door and knocking. With all these fears based on your past statements and actions personally, your Members and your party, I will assess you, your Government and your client, on the basis of a passage from this Gospel that I have read. I'm afraid I won't support your candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the following word. But get ready, Mrs. Andre Zabrett. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, I must say my sincere congratulations to SMC, Desus and New Slovenia that we have finally come to a situation that I do not know how many – 4, 5 years have I talked about in this Parliament; let us take a step forward and work for the welfare of the Slovenes and Slovenes. And that's what we're gonna do with this coalition. Now for a little while, why I support Janez Janša as Prime Minister of the Government. Because I have very little time, I'm just going to take a few sentences where I'm going to try to say the most essential. Mr Janez Janša is the man with the most mandate-making experience, the only Slovenian leader who has already led the Council of the European Union and was the President of the Government who saved Slovenia from economic and financial failure. This is particularly important in the light of these difficult challenges facing us – the coronavirus, illegal migration, the walking of the global economy and the new Presidency of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union. Janez Janša is a man of word, a man of action. What has been agreed with the Coalition Treaty and what the current situation will require will be done without delay and without any fine-tuning. He is a patriot who knows that Slovenia is first. He is a person who is concerned; he is a politician who realizes that too long a waiting line in health is unacceptable, that excessive bureaucratic obstacles are unacceptable, that the safety of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia is paramount. I also support the President of the Government because I know that he will and he is committed to respect for human rights, that we will not share in the first and second classes, not in our own and yours, and that our society will be based on justice, rule of law, honesty and responsibility. I am also giving my support to him because, unlike the predecessors of Europe and the world, he has an established name and reputation, so we can expect the end of the decline in Slovenia's international reputation and the repetition of the exemplary Presidency of the Council of the European Union, which will be remembered and followed by other countries. I particularly support it because listening to people, because I believe that it will create an environment of justice with its team, an environment in which it will be paid to work, create, explore; an environment in which older people will no longer be pushed to the brink of society and young people will not run abroad. These are the arguments for which I support Mr Janez Janša as Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs. Andreja Zabret has the next word. But get ready, Mr. Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Today's debate is very interesting, and in particular from this point of view, how the positions of the current and future coalitions are changing very quickly. In today's presentation, which was presented by the candidate for Prime Minister of the Government, I saw a few sentences or starting points, in particular a large-scale redistribution of financial resources within the budget. This concerns me mainly by thinking, by whom, and in what way. The fundamental objective of the coalition treaties is the balance between the social state and the market economy. That's the main problem. I hope that this balance will not be paid by the social state and that citizens' social rights will not be reversed and economic capital will thus be strengthened and social disparities deepened. Another thing that fell into my eyes — higher levels of contribution. All of a sudden, we are not talking about tax cuts anymore, but we are talking about even higher taxes or additional burdens on the economy. Third, repeatedly mentioned debirocratisation. It's nothing new, even in our coalition contract we've had debarcation written down. Above all, I find it interesting that, after several months of the coalition, the governments of the List of Marjan Šarca have been asked a question by the SDS, how many new laws and novelties we have already tabled. Based on the number of comparisons, you've shown us the inefficiency of our business. However, as we know, the efficiency of business or work is not in quantity but in quality. I also liked the idea that all changes should be organised and tactful. I hope so. I have a few more questions, but since I have little time, I'm going to leave them to the candidates for ministers at the hearings. However, I would also like to make it public that I, too, will not give my support to the candidate for Prime Minister. To today's candidate in case of election, I wish a successful work, full of mutual synergies, and especially for the benefit of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia, or for the well-being of Slovenia!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u85	Thank you. The next one has the word, Mr. Robert Polnar. And get ready, Mrs. Lidija Ivanusha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! If a Member of the National Assembly attaches importance to a public opinion, whatever it may be, it becomes a normal machine. Then there is no need for the National Assembly, no capacity for sound judgment, no patriotism, no ability to think, no courage; nothing. It is very easy to play a policy of cautious blindness between these walls and within the boundaries of this city. Somewhere between pointless discussions and focusing on marginal — instead of essential — open issues become problems that need to be addressed, not the crisis that needs to be resolved. And so at a certain point, we stop reaching out to what is possible and settle for what is most likely. But in pluralistic democracy, we have no choice. Politics depends on our ability to convince each individual of a common goal based on a common reality. It involves compromise, the art of the possible. From here comes the starting point for strategic reflection on the social development of Slovenia. The current ideological division has wasted time. Left and right are over. If we are to reorganise as a society, we need to explore the causes and dynamics of the current and future social struggles, not to be windmilled from the past century. Left and right are gone. Today's political scene in Slovenia is divided into strong middles and disgruntled and electrified robberies. Left and right have long since existed in their classical forms. The notions appeared during the French Revolution more than two centuries ago when the revolution and the restaurant directly clashed. In the first post-voluntary French Assembly, supporters of the revolution — political changes were sitting on the left side of the hall. Their opponents, supporters of restaurants – maintaining the old regime on the right side of the hall. The division of left and right marked the political history of the 19th century, which took place in the struggle of revolutionary and conservative forces and lasted until the first half of the 20th century. The struggle between the left and the right reached the height of the Spanish civil war, which was a real war on the left and on the right. After its end, the left and right are divided as political concepts because the revolution and the restaurant cease to exist as round and contradictory world views. Thus, during World War II in the coalition conservative Churchill, Communist Stalin and social liberal Roosevelt were against the fascist Mussolini and Nazi Hitler, who in their own way confused the revolution and the restaurant. Mussolini began as a socialist revolutionary and Hitler as a representative of what was then called a conservative revolution or a revolution from the right. The establishment of a social state, a state of prosperity in Western Europe after World War II, marks the beginning of the burial of division to the left and right. For illustration only, the famous German Social Democratic Chancellor Helmut Schmidt was much closer to Christian Democrats, the successors of Chancellor Adenauer than to the Orthodox communists and representatives of the revolution, according to the basic considerations of his policy. Since the revolution and the restaurant, the right hand and the right hand have left nothing but dust and ashes today. On one side are the left and the right center, and on the other side is written a society, ranging from communists to anarchists, from nationalists to conservatives of old metal. In today’s political reality, it has become the dominant division into the center and the abrasions, where they are dissatisfied with all colors and all omens. The fall of the Berlin Wall finally buried the division on the left and on the right in their classical forms. Neither in the European West nor in the European East are left and right any more decisive and decisive political concepts. Some other geostrategic parameters now prevail, for today, as in old times, we live in times of empires. Therefore, it would be naive to think that in today's policy left and right can translate effective passwords that politicians could use as a guide to practical political action. The predominant division of our time is the division into the center and the robberies, where the left and right centers are on one side, and on the other the populist movements and the parties of citizens who are dissatisfied with such card distribution. These movements sometimes have a more social foretaste, elsewhere a more national connotation, but can also be openly and consciously ambivalent. On the one hand, therefore, the institutionalised children generally accept the main course of thought and action, and on the other hand are the populists of all the colors and foreshadows that are currently at the edge of the political field. And above all there is no one here, no left or right, because for one vote are those who want status quo, and for others who want to change the rules of the game. Realised, the rules of the game are difficult to change because the economy has long become an objective mechanism of all and all-round political influence. The present and future will thus belong to those who will be able to provide or find a middle way between a strong centre and a dissatisfied edge, whether it be pragmatic social democrats or conservatives of a soft heart. Ladies and gentlemen, all those who are to be elected today by the new Slovenian government's mandate-holder will be faced with each and every one with their own degree of cynics, doubters and liars. It's not a big deal. Because it is as it is, we will not be able to avoid that the caregivers of any misery in our Slovenian work would not announce themselves; but they must look under their skin. On the outside are just one carnival, a comical poverty, a procession of ridiculous puffs; under the skin you can see hopeless despair and shortsightedness, if not the blindness of their insemination. And it's good to know something else. No one hates just as the neglected, addictive, and cowardly, who are always on the side of the believers. Their own opportunism and cowardice and envy turn into cellophane virtues and humanity. Everyone has the right to ignorance, and the question of decency is if this is publicly demonstrated by his ignorance. Ignorance, of course, must not be the basis for decision-making or public determination, and it is therefore worth recalling the ancient Aristotle thesis: Politics is the highest privilege of free people. Politics is man's destiny. Running away from politics is also a kind of policy, but those who flee from politics run from their weaknesses, flee from their ignorance and from their uncertainty. Politics embraces all the elements of our everyday lives, and politics poses such a major challenge. But we certainly agree that no party or political group has a monopoly on what is right and what is good; but we can achieve a lot if we focus on it. Ladies and gentlemen, our decision today can also have a beneficial effect on the openness of the spirit to reflection on how to act in Slovenian politics. Let each one take his own, and do not accuse others of his own; but we have the hope that we will ever truly enter into the clear and clear atmosphere of the future, which everyone among us would probably want. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what I was going to tell you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lidija Ivanusha has the floor. But get ready, Mr. Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! I am pleased to monitor the clarity of the Slovenian political space, which began with the fall of the last government and the talks on the composition of the new government. I wish that the exchange of power would be the first step towards normalising Slovenia's political space and bringing about our young democracy. I am pleased to see that the artificial creation of fear of John Janša does not work among working and honest people. Most Slovenians have matured in the belief that it is high time to make order in Slovenia and that the right person sees the SDS president as the right person for this difficult task. I personally believe in you and your dedicated work. I think it's about time you took this place, that our country will develop first for the good of all who live and work here. I will not list what needs to be done in our country, because you presented this perfectly in your introductory debate. In light of the above, I know that you will face challenges professionally and without tragic setbacks, as has often been the case in the face of new faces. I know and others know that in your work you will be a great stumbling block of profitable uncles from the background, filling their pockets at the expense of taxpayer money. That is why they are attacking you; but citizens and citizens expect you to have a fair attitude in which they can trust. Surely everything that has been sitting and going backwards in recent years will not be rectified in such a short time. But I do believe that you will do as well as you can. Regardless of the demonization of the tidal media, people are increasingly finding that you are a man with great empathy and understanding for fellow humans, an excellent and determined leader, and a great fighter for the country. As a Member, I sincerely congratulate you on your courageous and difficult decision and hope for the help of all those who respect our country. We're stronger together, and we can do more. As always, we will choose a policy of integration and not exclusion. We are here because of our people and our country, so must we. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. But get ready, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Today we have heard a candidate for the Prime Minister who has not actually said anything about what he will do. All he said was that he gave an assessment of how he felt about today’s condition and some past days. He has given two concrete guidelines to which he will work on health and education. The message is clear on the left. It's best to keep sharing and rule. That's the only way I'm gonna get what I'm after. That's why I'm not going to talk about the programs myself, because that's what happens when the ministers or his team come along, and then we're going to talk about the content. But I will only talk about the candidate, because today we only decide about him and nothing else. And history is not about lying on dusted shelves, but about learning something from it, and that in some ways there is a reminder, something not anymore. And if I go in line, surely some expect me to talk today about the commission I run; far from that. I still believe in the presumption of innocence, and I think it is right for this commission to finish its work and say what is right and what is wrong. But I'll talk about the things that have already been. The fact is, Mr Janez Janša is one of those politicians who has been shaping fate for 30 years. If we remember correctly, his journey and career began in the ZSMS, where he continued his journey to the Communist Union itself. And by that time, there was a great dilemma, which was why they threw him out of this party. This is a dilemma that has been triggered with regard to the armed army or the way it should be organized. Moreover, he made it very clear what is contrary to those who rule this country. I think that's when his guilt happened when they threw him out, and here we can agree. However, it was not as simple as we are talking about when the informal leader of the Slovenian Army was in the defense of our country, of course, he was fighting to take as many action as possible and to come to a serious conflict as quickly as possible. What happened? They happened to Briony, and in the end, what he did not want, and he never made it clear later. Of course, it would be fatal if all that happened along his way. One of the biggest affairs, one of the biggest affairs – weapons that are still unexplained today, 100 million mark after such a very simple or conservative assessment. And we can say the following, if he didn't know anything, he was one of the worst defence ministers if he didn't know anything about doing it in Slovenia. On the other hand, if he was involved, he was one of the real heads of the mob that did it. We'll never know what's true and what's not. But the fact is, he led two governments. We forget, however, that he was still in the third government, where Drnovšek even had to throw him out of this government. He had to throw him out for Depala Village. What happened in the Depala village? During the time of peace, his intelligence service pursued a police agent. He used to say that it wasn't a civilian, but in a peaceful country, it was a kind of experience to attack a man the way he did. In his first government, in a boom where he boasted that he had even left profit in the budget itself, he created all the conditions that cheap money could be indebted and allowed entrepreneurs who today boast about failed companies, but who themselves are still rich enough to live a decent life. In another government, however, he went to a direct disintegration of the social state. I'm going to conclude with a very simple sentence that they're used to when it comes to children. I don't want this to be an example and an example for young people who are looking at what you need to know and what you need to do if you want to become Prime Minister. I'm sorry, this can't be my Prime Minister and I don't even want him. We are talking about Mr. John Janša, who, of course, has only one goal; and this is a dowry, a dowry, a dowry, and a reign. Only in this way will he preserve the situation that will enable him to gain salvation in the end. Thank God, history always preserves memory, and I don't believe we'll remember it by these things, as he thinks.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. And get ready, Mrs. Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. At the same time, it is very irresponsible that we are listening to the most negative today from those who have caused the political crisis. And you're running everything live over those who are trying to solve this political crisis. That's irresponsible politics. Not only are you going to an exclusive policy, but you're going to an irresponsible policy. And although the future mandate holder has moved the programme in 60 minutes, the key measures that would have been necessary in these two years ahead of us, in fact, no one has talked about the content itself. That seems completely irrelevant to you. Important to you today is the one and only thing that guides you – the personal discredits of political parties who somehow found the common language and the discreditation of Janez Janša as a person. And now you're telling me about responsible politics. But I'm always the one who never loses hope. And I hope that, over time, during the time of this government, you will see your error and somehow join in. Because citizens and citizens have enough lacquering of society, that's enough. They want cooperation, they want good work for this country, and they want to live better lives than they do today. Today, they can only compare with their neighbors and see what the wages are there, what the pensions are there, and we are still living somewhere. But it's definitely not their fault, it's politics. And a policy that does not participate, but literally squanders everything that is good, and all that it wants to do for Slovenia is a bad journey forward. But these four coalition parties have signed a coalition agreement. They've committed themselves to doing this. I believe that you will give them this opportunity and that somewhere you will only see that cooperation is needed. And since I don't have a lot of time, I'm going to finish with the sentence that the citizen told me yesterday when he came to my office. He put it this way: This coalition has all the ingredients to prepare good bread, Slovenian bread, which will be enjoyed by all citizens. And let this bread be on the platter as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomic has the floor. But get ready, mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Today is a black day for democracy. A black day because this government, the third government of Janez Janša, consists of a fraud, deceived voters who elected parties who claimed that they would never go with Janez Janša. And the kidnapped parties who entered this far right coalition, kidnapped as if still led by Ludmila Novak, would never have entered such a disgraceful coalition. Desus, if he were still led by Karel Erjavec, he would never have entered such a coalition; and he would never have entered the SMC if he were still led by Mira Cerar. How it happened that the client leaderships were replaced, and all of a sudden, they favor this coalition of hatred, is the enigma that history will tell us about. What this coalition will look like and perhaps our parliamentary work, but most of all Mr Breznik has shown in his final cry – God lives Slovenia, the God of the living mandate holder Janez Janša. Your Honor, thank God. Do you know who lives here? The working class lives you, you, us, and everything that's in this country; the workers. And for this there is only a neo-liberal policy that we do not agree with; and a socially fair policy and an environmentally fair policy. Of course, Levican cannot cooperate with any coalition that violates fundamental principles of equality and social justice. Jansha will do anything for the authorities. It is funny that these parties who are now going to this coalition of hatred to support respect, cooperation, and common good; on the other hand, they give a third mandate to a man — an extreme right-wing man who has been convicted of corruption in his last term — and we all know that. To create a constant emergency situation, a rift, to the debtor of some totalitarian leaders of neighbouring countries, because Orban is already drawing a large Hungary with territories from Prekmurje, the RCU – a sower of hatred, a quantifier of all sorts with spankers, trainers, media prostitutes and so on, as well as your media trumpets that discredit all of us. You'll see within five minutes of the threat coming to me, a threat. Is this the democracy and cooperation you're talking about? No, not at all. In short, all for power, first a hardened communist, if it's worth it, then a socialist, if it's worth it, walked to Eggs in 1977, when we fought for more democratisation. But then he became a capitalist godfather, a businessman, sitting on a state manger for the rest of his life, and at the same time he talks about first- and second-class citizens. The man who attacks the judicial system, whose first government between 2004 and 2008, has made sure that the debt of households, banks, businesses has increased by more than EUR 30 billion, which we have all paid together. In 2012 he introduced the infamous ZUJF, with which he framed pensions, health care, universities, education, police and again called the troika. And now that he doesn't like the trials, he's putting pressure on the police, the judiciary, everyone in this country is threatened, he can't explain the origin of the property, he's lending money to Bosnia, Orban is sending him financial injections – and you call it legitimate. Responsible to accept, you know, digging through state property for your own benefit without any responsibility and staffing is no responsibility. [[…]] For Levi, elections are not an opportunity to share functions and to take state property as a prey, but rather to work. We will continue this work in the only right direction to show an alternative. We will take over the ballots, we will have no doubt, we will vote and give 9 votes against the policy of fear, against the policy of exclusion, against chauvinism, homophobia, nationalism, promoting racial and religious intolerance. In short, we're going to get a far right government and don't pretend it's a right-centre government. There was no S left in the middle, because this environment agreed with this exclusion policy. Lefty, as I said, is not a dilemma. We'll say no, because this is my Prime Minister, and he never will be. I regret that so many voters have been deceived, because two thirds have voted against Janša. Never forget that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Branko Grimes. Let's get the mags ready. Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! The Constitution and constitutional order bind everyone. The very constitutional basis of the Republic of Slovenia clearly states that the Slovenian people are an inseparable, constitutional part of the country of Slovenia. According to local words, there is no Slovenia without Slovenian people. Because of the changed international environment, because of the new challenges that lie ahead of us, the task that awaits the new government in this respect is exceptional. And expectations are extraordinary. The Constitution gives everyone the right to security, to personal integrity, to respect his rights. And that's why it's the first task of this government to make people feel safe. For years I have been reminding of the invasion that we have witnessed in Europe and the great perversion that has been made of it. Unfortunately, I've also listened to the discredits for many years, something that was here today, I take it well-intentionedly, but all the challenges I've been talking about are coming true these very days. For those who do not know, armed attacks on the Greek police have already taken place on the Greek border, on those who care for order and thus defend the entire European Union. For Greece is a member of the European Union and is also a member of our territory. In addition, of course, it is the task of the government to provide for the well-being of the people. If she's anywhere, I'm sure she'll be successful here. It is necessary to release development potential, to remove bureaucratic barriers, to reduce the burden on all people, tax burdens and, of course, the burden on entrepreneurs in order to open new, quality jobs with high added value, as this is the only permanent basis for the well-being of any country that exists. However, in order to achieve the task ahead of us, it is said that we should keep alive the basis of the Slovenian Constitution, which says that the Slovenian nation is an integral, constitutional part of the country of Slovenia, more needs to be done. Everything must be done to preserve the identity, to preserve the true, genuine Slovenian culture, to preserve the Slovenian language, to preserve everything that forms what we think is self-evident – our homeland of Slovenia. That is why this task is important not only when it comes to today but also when it comes to tomorrow. We do not need any mass migration, nor legal or illegal. There's been a lot of abuse in both of us, and you're gonna have to be put away. Whoever broke the law should be responsible for that. It is necessary to establish circumstances in order to remove the foundation that is a problem all over Europe, in order to make it clear that every child, every Slovenian child born, is not valuable to its parents, that it is not valuable to the community, but that the only investment that allows them to remain in the Slovenian Constitution and the definition that I am talking about is also alive for the next generation. We need a proper family policy to do this, we need circumstances that will favour families that will be favoured by children who will ensure that every citizen, every citizen, feels safe to have an adequate social policy, health policy, security and also an adequate pension policy here. That it will no longer happen that someone who has contributed for 40 years with his work, with his hard work, with his health to the construction of the state of Slovenia, end up living with a few hundred euros of pension. But someone comes across the border and says, "Here I want asylum; but it is clear to everyone that he is abusing this right; and here it is, a thousand EUR 963 costs for you is no problem. If there is a point at which I am convinced that we should be united, this is the point where we are talking about consistent respect for law, which I have been defending all these years. If we had consistently respected the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and the international commitment of the Republic of Slovenia, none of what I am talking about today could have happened. And I expect this from the new government that it will be consistent in respect of the constitutional order, constitutionality and law of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, international obligations. And that in addition to respecting the rule of law, there is another point where, in my opinion, we should all be united long ago. I hope, however, that what some of the debates were, in some ways, was the laudable singing of that policy that gave priority to anyone before Slovenia and Slovenia. So that this value of patriotism will once and for all become central to what I have been repeating for so many years, which many people find strange, and I say that it should be the most self-evident for anyone who participates in Slovenian politics – first Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Next up, it's mag. Carmen Furman. But get ready for Mr. Franz Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u98	Your Honor! Time obviously always puts things in the right place, and that's the way it is in politics. Because today we are deciding what we should have decided on almost a year and a half after the victory of the Slovenian Democratic Party in the national elections. After years of non-productive policy of new faces, I am glad that in our Slovenia the time has come when we have the opportunity to get a government that not only knows what Slovenia needs, but also has the intended solutions, set goals and will work for the common good of all citizens. And such a government needs, in the first place, capable and experienced policies. When Marjan Sarca was appointed Prime Minister, we listened to many beautiful but empty words, but absolutely nothing about the content, the reforms that his government would carry out. Today, on the other hand, we have heard from the candidate for Prime Minister of the Government the clear and, in particular, the real objectives of the emerging coalition, with an emphasis on solutions in those areas which Slovenia must urgently address. Under the rule of the left-wing parties, our country, unfortunately, has only deteriorated in the last ten years, including in areas such as health care, pensioners, the resolution of the housing problem of young people. For ten years there has been no housing or home for pensioners in our country; at the record budget, the record number of recipients of social assistance, record waiting periods in health care has only been extended and more pensioners are living below the poverty line. Therefore, I congratulate those colleagues and fellow Members who have decided on a new policy, this is a policy of integration and not exclusion, because in a spirit of mutual respect, and without exclusion, a new coalition is emerging. A coalition that can overcome party interests for the benefit of our citizens. And this coalition is formed perfectly legally, without forced protests, the will of the Members and, above all, the will of the electorate. So allow me to conclude as far as Charche's government has been concerned. The gap is over and the masks are down. Also, your political kitchen is closing. In Slovenia the time has come for a new policy, this is a policy of solutions and not of sharing. A policy that will work for people, not a policy that will only deal with itself. For such a policy, we need a strong, stable government with clear objectives for the benefit of all citizens. And we need an experienced and capable Prime Minister of the Government, who is today proposed as a candidate and for whom I will be happy to vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. But get ready, Mr. Jean-Mahnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Since I only have three minutes, I decided that in the end I would actually say what I was going to say first. But I'm going to say something about this program that you're more or less silent about. We have concluded a coalition treaty primarily because we have written points of crucial importance to us in the coalition treaty. These are: that pensions, due to the lack of regular coordination between 2010 and 2015, are coordinated by 1.5 % to 5,6 % in each year; reduction of waiting periods; comprehensive renewal of the Health and Health Insurance Act; abolition of additional health insurance; and the adoption of a long-term care law that we have been waiting for a number of years. This is also why we want stable sources of funding for this area. We want a shorter transitional period, and we have also agreed that in men instead of in six years, the increase in the rate of retirement will be 63.5% in four years. The arrangement of widow's pensions, as well as farm pensions, the completion of home in Vrtojba and Osilnica, two new homes per year, the demographic fund, the preservation of effective, quality and all available public health, the establishment of a ministry or the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for demography, which will be in Maribor. As of January 2022, pensions were also above the poverty threshold. These are the objectives enshrined in the coalition agreement that we wanted to put in, and we have succeeded. This is crucial that Desus sign this coalition treaty and that we go to this government. Finally, I would like to ask our current coalition partners: Which of us has denied the achievements of the former coalition or government? None of us said that because I was the only one who had the position of our group before. Now the question is, Hasn't Levica actually done what she's done, that she's not the government that she's done so far? The left is the main culprit. Let's move on. The next culprit is the former Prime Minister of the Government, who jumped on his head into an empty pool. He has simply and simply done what no Prime Minister in a democratic Europe has done so far. That's what President Sarec did. For us in Desus, ideology doesn't matter. No one can tell us that we are the right-wing political option. We're the middle policy option. In our client there are people with a heart on their left, but we also have people who have a little bit more heart attack on their right side. And we are well aware of that in the client, so we do not allow ourselves to be classified where we are not.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean-Mahnič has the floor. And get ready, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! It is important to know that the result of the elections is legal and legitimate until the next elections, which means that the government forming it is legal, since the result of the elections held on 3 June 2018 is still valid. The parties are still here in Parliament on the basis of this result. And we are pleased to find that Slovenia is receiving the government it should have received after that week, on 3 June 2018. Marjan Šarec said many times in this Chamber when he answered our questions: Look, it's not my fault if you didn't form a government. Apparently, given what the former coalition partners on my opposite side have said about him, he will now begin to say, "Look, it is my fault that you have now formed a government." But, ladies and gentlemen, from someone who had had nothing to do with state policy, who led the congregation, as he led it, we could not have expected another disunity. Not according to who he chose as his closest associate, for his right hand. His name has been exposed several times. It's Damir Crnčec. See what Damir Črnčec said in an interview with Siol on 30 March 2019. The journalist asked him: “Are you Charec and Janša in any way similar, at least in any small way?” Damir Črnčec's answer: "Maybe I could say that the present is their share, because Marjan Šarec is the future and Janez Janša is the past." Indeed, the top political analyst, who apparently also gave such excellent advice to Marjan Šarc, as colleague Jurš said, not only to jump into an empty pool, but to jump on his head into an empty pool. And I hope that he will keep this counselor for a long time, for John Janša is the one who is present and the future for this Slovenia. And it's Marjan Sarec who's in the past. I am pleased that you have also come to realize this, because by setting up the mirror today, the ruling party, you have also somehow acknowledged what cooperation was and that this cooperation was impossible. Demographic fund, residential guarantee scheme for young people, long-term care, reduction of waiting types. This after a year and a half will not only be a word, but will also be an act, because this government has committed itself not to be in the next two years, but I say that it has worked for the benefit of citizens and citizens and has done what needs to be done. I can very much say that I am extremely pleased that according to the coalition contract the Municipality of Gorenje Vas - Poljane will already receive 260 thousand euros more this year, Jury 170 thousand euros more, Railways 230 thousand euros more. These are projects that will then be financed from this money, because in the Slovenian Democratic Party we advocate decentralisation, and this decentralisation will also start with this government. I wish the future Prime Minister well. We'll get the President of the Government who can be proud of us. I will no longer be ashamed, I will no longer be embarrassed to talk to other fellow Members of Parliament from European countries, because we will get the President of the Government, who will be proud to represent the name of Slovenia abroad. Mr. Janez Janša, happy and successful!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Since the Group of Members has exhausted time, we are ending this part of the debate. I therefore ask the candidate for Prime Minister Janša if he wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u104	Thank you very much for the third time. Otherwise, I can say that in this debate, following the presentation of the views of the members of the groups, there were no substantive new or substantive new issues. Things kept happening, and I wouldn't want to. I'd like to comment on three things. Firstly, these comparisons were made when legislation or the regulatory environment in Slovenia increased. Comparisons only after years, and I have not done them, are not very credible, because in that first period after the independence of Slovenia, Slovenia established its own legislative framework after the new constitution was adopted. It is understandable that there were some new rules at the time. Similarly, the period from 2002 to 2007, when we first joined the European Union, then we entered the European Monetary Union and the Schengen area. At that time, we had to adapt a lot of legislation and this statistics, of course, raises. And even the number of marriages is not a key issue. This number of laws doubled from 1992 to the end of last year. However, when it comes to sub-legislative acts, regulations, government regulations and everything else at state level, this number has dropped. Here's the problem. There are also enormous costs, unnecessary bureaucracy, long waiting types of those who are stakeholders in all these administrative processes. You admit it or not, that's a very big problem. Before the elections, we promised that for every new regulation, if we put together a government, the two existing ones would be abolished, in short, that we would reduce the number of regulations. Some people then told me that we promised the same thing as the American president. A few weeks ago, American media released their statistics. They have elections there, and they're checking what's being fulfilled, which is what the American President's candidate promised. Unfavorable media in America have been acknowledged by the President that there has been great success here, because in the current term, the US administration has abolished every new regulation of 12 existing ones. And nothing went wrong, economic growth is record-breaking, the number of jobs is record-breaking, until this Coronavirus crisis, the indices on the stock exchanges were record-breaking. We'll take those readings. If there are good cases anywhere, wherever there is good practice to endure, let it be in America, Asia or Europe, we will gladly endure it. We don't care what color it is that has this good practice. The debate mentioned that we opposed the budget rebalancing last year or the budget. We have merely reiterated the comments made by the government or the state fiscal council. Since one deficit is a surplus, the other is a structural deficit or surplus. And we probably all know in this room what the difference is between you giving millions of euros. It has also been mentioned that in these procedures, when early elections have not taken place, when the government is formed and so on, an empty run is extended, for a time when there is simply no executive authority with full powers. This is a problem, but when we talk about this particular case, it was not caused by the opposition. Once again, we are not discussing this today because we would like to place a constructive mistrust on my part, but because the previous President of the Government has given way to a drought. It's dry, for no apparent reason. As far as the reasons could be seen, they were all in his yard. Nowhere else, not with coalition partners and even less with the opposition. That's why we're doing this. But I agree that this time is too long because of the procedure we have. If we had counted everything since we had a new constitution, all the time that the government was forming in Slovenia, we would have found that together in these less than three decades of this empty run for more than one year. If we count gross for two years, because we have a system where we vote twice on government. We're a very big exception as far as this is concerned. In most other countries of parliamentary democracy, it is only the President who gives the mandate after consultation when he finds out who has the minority. The one who receives the mandate from the President will present the government team and then Parliament will once vote on the confidant. The procedure can be reduced by half. The opportunity for us to approach some normal democratic standards here too is in the process of being amended and the Constitutional Commission has begun to consider this. This is a completely neutral thing, which does not have such a different political color, not an omen or an ideology; however, for the future we would significantly reduce this empty run that is now taking place. If we had a normal system, Slovenia could have an operational government from tomorrow, and so it is now the deadline of 15 days, 15 days for a proposal, then hearings and voting and so on and so on and time goes on forever. I hear, however, that in some ministries they are speeding up the publication of calls for employment with three-day application deadlines. If all of this were happening in our mandate, I will not say what would have happened in the streets, but certainly such addresses would have been in the mainstream media. I appeal to those who do it to hold back a little bit because they don't do anyone any favors with it. On the questions related to the very specific things of the coalition treaty on which the government programme will be based, I do not yet think to answer more broadly here, because we will talk about this if I get your trust today, the majority confidence when the government proposal comes before you and then the government programme based on what the coalition partners have agreed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u105	Thank you for your discussion. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, you have discussed all those who wanted to have a word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Okay, I'm opening the list. Please sign up whoever you want. We've got six reports. First of all, Mr. Gregor Perič has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Aljaž Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u106	Thank you. A nice greeting to everyone! I followed very closely, followed today's debate and expected cities to be very hot and hot. I expected, in particular, a very sharp response from the party Levica. This is, in its purely logical, expected and also reasonable, because the situation in which we are in, that is, the political crisis in which Slovenia entered, is due to some non-cooperation or some unwillingness to take responsibility on the left hand side. I sincerely regret this, not because I would define myself ideologically to the content that Leviathan advocates, but because it is difficult to have one parliament where some political parties systematically refuse to take any responsibility for membership or for being in the government. In this way, when we get 90 votes, we have to count down so much and so much and then weigh down and form some coalitions, one or another, more or less functional, more or less like, more or less ideologically homogeneous or non-homogeneous. I think that such an attitude is very irresponsible to all those voices that are then entrusted to such parties, because in this way it is very difficult or impossible to implement your programme. In some ways, to apply your program if you become a super-coalist partner, but quickly it turns out that even if you have very popular suggestions, we come to the moment of truth when it is necessary to get them into life. And then we push this elastic to the point where it just breaks. But in Levi, they were skilled enough to allow this elasticity to go down at the right moment so that they wouldn't break and that they wouldn't be blamed for the collapse of this government, and they'd rather leave that honor to someone else. Honor in quotes, of course. Now, from some relatively safe position, they can continue to share science, what's right, what's right. On the other hand, you find yourself in a situation where you also have to shoulder that responsibility. I cannot help but mention that I regret that, in all the things that come from the centre of the left in this national assembly, and at some point there were as many as 52 votes – that is not enough if we know that half of the vote is 45 and if we subtract two votes from the minority representatives – that we were not able to talk in this context and not agree at all. Yesterday, I heard there was already an initiative to form an opposition. It seems to me that it will be difficult to find a leader on this opposition side, because these tensions will be very much. If it was difficult to participate in the coalition, I think it would also be very difficult for the opposition. And in this sense, it seems to me that we are not going in the right direction as far as political culture and dialogue are concerned. You've been reading a lot of things lately, we've read everything alive in the media, I'd rather not mention everything we've been writing. In short, now we are responsible for all of this situation, we are guilty of it, and we are guilty because we have found another solution that allows Slovenia to move forward because we know what is waiting for us or what is happening in Italy. We know what's going on in the south, we're going to have to find some very concrete solutions very quickly. I don't understand at all those who don't like SDS and, on the other hand, call for early elections, because if you look at the projections, then that means that the SDS will get stronger. I really don't understand this position.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u107	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Let's move on. You have the floor, Mr. Aljaž Kovacič. Get ready, Mr. Joseph Lenart. Procedural question? At the same time, allow for a warning. Replicas are not allowed, they are procedural, but please do not abuse the Institute of Procedural Affairs in advance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u108	I will not abuse him, we are today discussing how the government of Janez Janša is forming its third term. What you're saying about Levica and Marjana Sharca as the culprit for this is very depressed. Let's go to the polls, let's face it! SMC's not coming in, SAB's probably not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u109	Where's the procedure here, Your Honor? You've been abused. Just a little attention. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want this to happen to you to use the rules of procedure. You have the floor, Mr. Aljaž Kovacic. Get ready, Mr. Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. Mr President, a respected candidate for a term of office, a colleague and a colleague! I'm not going to be reading magnetograms for long and wide now, what someone said, what someone didn't say, what someone did, because I'm not a soldier of my own party to go to war here now. There is a lot of talk today about the current Prime Minister of the Government, although today he is the election of the new Prime Minister of the Government. First, let me say that abroad, as my colleague Jurš said, there is nothing unusual in some democratic society for the Prime Minister to step down and check his support for the elections. But Prime Minister Marjan Sarec made it clear why he resigned because he was no longer able to work under such conditions. Yes, he decided on something unusual, which was unusual for you in the 1930s in Slovenia. Although he was in power, according to his own words, he returned power to the people. And maybe for a lot of you, it's unimaginable that you're in power and ready to give up. Even if there were some self-criticism within the parties of the former coalition, it might be different. When a minister was not good, we invited him to the LMŠ to resign or somehow gave him up. Today, let me say that the election of the new Prime Minister of the Government is actually legal, we have been elected Members and it is logical that Parliament elects a new Prime Minister of the Government. It's nothing unusual. The problem is that when such politicians give legitimacy, it is said that they give it the legitimacy of a party that spoke slightly differently before the elections. But if we actually believed what they were saying, we'd actually be talking about a coalition treaty today. But all of these parties actually spent their time defending themselves, defending why we came into this situation, and actually not having any way out of what they could do. Then I would expect those parties who have decided on this coalition to say what is good in the coalition contract and why they have made a substantive decision about it. The coalition contract is beautifully written, it is also beautifully readable, and time itself will show how much of it will be realized. Therefore, it will be time for us to discuss it in more detail at the hearings themselves, where the candidates for ministers will also present this matter. I would also like to focus on the words that the candidate for the term of office has said. He talked a lot about history as it was in 1987; I find it difficult to comment because I was born a little later. There has been a lot of saying about what's wrong and a little solution, and I hope you're aware that you've made this policy for 30 years, and you've had a chance to make a difference for six years. You were talking about administration. There is a lot of talk that everyone in the public sector is lazy, too many people in it. I hope that the public sector will improve so that you know how to reward these people properly. You've also talked about the laws, how many there are. More than 600 laws have already been introduced between 2004 and 2008. I hope that this new government of yours, if elected, will not increase these laws. I'm saddened by the sentence that you said a 23-year-old advisor to the European Commission. I hope it's not just years that matter. If someone can be a pilot at the age of 27 and answer for 300 lives in the air, I think he can be a consultant at this age. It doesn't have to be for all areas, but if someone's professional, they're professional. I will conclude with a quote: “We will never be the greatest. We'll never be the strongest. But we can be the best." Although this was a plagiarism a while ago, I hope that some parties do not give you votes as plagiarism and that you will actually be successful. I wish you and your government good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your discussion. You have the floor, Mr. Joseph Lenart. Get ready, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. All present! All Members, as well as the President of the National Assembly, have a responsibility to the state and citizens, as well as to the President of the Government and ministers. Mr Marjan Sarec, President on his way out, unfortunately placed the responsibility of others. Mr Janez Janša, the new proposed mandate holder, will take responsibility. So it is not all in your courage to hope for something, it is also necessary to assume the responsibility to bring this to an end, to a goal; it is up to the success of Slovenia here, in the European Union and in the world. Any successful democratic and social state should seek to somehow give the business world good conditions of employment, as this implies that the country will also have enough taxes and sufficient resources. At a time when there is a good budget, it is not difficult to share resources; of course, if this is transparent, and we must look here as well as at the mandate holders and ministers. But unfortunately, especially in Levica, as well as some other Members from other parliamentary groups, you are not well aware of this and in fact there is something to say, controversy, if, now, they will cut social. No, we are for social, but we are also for good business conditions for the economy; this will be followed by social. If I continue to go here today, no one has said much about this 30 billion debt of the country of Slovenia. Perhaps some who have been in the previous governments have been very quiet, because the 30 billion debt amounts to 1 billion annual interest obligations, to repay this loan. And this 1 billion has one enzyme and nine zeros. And this EUR 1 billion means that if we didn't spend it to pay interest, we could spend it, of course, if we wanted to spend it so that every Slovenian worker could get a 13th salary around a thousand. There is a huge responsibility, transparency and, of course, economy on the part of the Prime Minister, which our candidate has already said something about today. There is no excuse for waste. I have confidence in the ability and integrity of the mandate holder and I have already held him by his hand in the matter of decentralisation. We offered and also wrote down something that, if established, the new state offices should be distributed slightly across the rest of the country, not just everything in Ljubljana. From this title, once again, I hold to the word of all coalition partners and I believe in good cooperation. All well, our presidential candidate, today in the vote and, of course, in the formation of the ministerial team!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u113	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Get ready, mags. Marko Koprivc. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! Today we were told that it was time for us to deal with the content. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we do this all the time, all of our proposals for laws, measures were content that you often did not want to talk about and without debate or by pressing the “against” button. In this way, however, the best solutions cannot be found. The best solutions come from confronting the view that everyone presents his or her vision and version and finally find the best solution for our citizens and citizens. Someone from the LMŠ party said that you respect the Modern Centre Party and Desus and their Members, but you do not understand them in this situation. How much you actually respect your coalition partners, Marjan Sarec showed by not even telling them that he intended to give up. It is a serious respect that you do not even tell your partners what you intend to do and actually put them before the fact that you have been executed. They were as respectful as we say we who were not respected, and we didn't know it from your side. We could say a lot of things about respect. Mr Han, the leader of the Group of Social Democrats, said that every hostility is on the right and every argument on the left. So we hate on the right, but on the left you argue. These are very serious accusations. I don't hate anyone, I'm sure my colleagues don't either. When there's a sharp word, it's probably not a problem. We haven't insulted anyone, and we've been insulted for 15 years. 15 years old, open some Youth, open a newspaper, a diary, a Sunday diary. Last time we had this debate on the Committee on Culture, you were all wondering what kind of hate speech was going on. We've been setting this standard for 15 years, and you've allowed it, and now you don't want it to happen like that. Of course, as long as it was just us, no one had a problem with it, but now that it is happening to someone else, it is necessary to act and do something. My colleague said that we claim everyone in the public administration is lazy. That's a lie. None of us ever said that. But we said that some work very much and some work a little less. And that's also what your Minister Schabeder said, which said that at the clinical center, one third of doctors work under the average. And there have been more statements like that. And we didn't say that people are lazy, but that things aren't well organized, and that's why some people don't do as much as they can and as much as they should, and for how much they're paid. A colleague named Jani said that Janez Janša has been making fortunes for 30 years. In all these years and all these mandates, he has always been elected to Parliament. Unlike him who wasn't, it's obvious to him. And he was elected always and often even with the highest number of voters among all Members. And some of you are hoping to challenge that. I became a Member in October 2004 and accompanied the work of the first Janša government, the second Janša government, including all other governments; and it is very unfair for you to report public debt to us from the party of Social Democrats when we know that it has increased enormously since your takeover of power in 2008. It would be fair for us to have a very clear record of what happened in which government concerning pensions related to everything else. But it is not that it is constantly intertwined with some who do not hold; and you know for yourselves that they do not hold. Incredibly sedition and accusation before the new government takes over its cities, however, is a coalition of hatred, and none of you have come forward. Once again, we don't hate anyone, I don't hate anyone. What you're probably worried about is that this is really a coalition of futures that will do things that you've just been talking about, and this coalition will do them. I know that the third Janša government will succeed, and I wish her that too!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u115	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your discussion. As the last one, he's got the word "mag." Marko Koprivc and last Mrs Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Today is really a sad day for democracy in Slovenia. It's a very sad day for democracy, and it's because we're obviously going to get a mandate holder to form a new government, not on the basis of the will of the electorate and the electorate, but on the basis of fraud. In particular, at least two parties who today will support the new government's term of office have made a clear and strong commitment before the elections that they will under no circumstances support Janez Janša as President of the new Slovenian government. Obviously, it's very easy to swallow a word. There was a lot of talk today about the fact that, of course, the indirect culprit was also Marjan Sarec because he had given up. I agree that there should be no government crisis. I'm afraid that's what happened. However, for whatever reason, to remain Members, you were willing to go into coalition with the devil. Please, don't overdo it. We had an opportunity to go to the polls. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u117	Mr. Ambassador, I ask for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u118	It was an illustration, so please don't take it literally. We had the opportunity to go to early elections, to appease the wishes of voters and voters, and some did not choose to do so because they were afraid for their seats. And a replica of Mr. Peric. If elections were to take place, such a government would never have been constituted, under no circumstances or in any way. Of course, the Social Democrats will vote against the government and we will be a tough opposition. But we will support everything that will be good for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u119	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Nevertheless, allow me to ask for the last time that Members and Members keep an eye on the culture of the said word. And last of all, you have the word Mrs. Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u120	Thank you, Madam President. In the first part, I ran out of time for my debate and now I have come to particular attention because I would like to comment on something that I have noticed in today's full-day debate. And the lot has given me this last place, and I'm also going to try to end up a little more optimistic. But what did I notice today during this debate? So many words about integration, compromises, integration, handing out. As many words as I've heard about it today — not many who know it and who don't, who can do more and who can do less — I haven't heard so many words in a long time. And that gives me the hope that something can be changed in our policy. Because I myself am absolutely tired of these divisions, which we witness in Slovenia and which burden us all and limit us all. And when I listened to the future Prime Minister of the Government today, he also seemed to me in content and even in a way completely acceptable. And as optimistic as I am – those who know me, you know that I am always inclined to compromise – optimistically I hope that changes are possible and that some things that we believed could not change can change. Me, politicians, and many think similarly, I have nothing against people who think differently, because this is a policy – facing different opinions and views. And without a hitch, I listen to the views of some, others, thirds, I understand them, I debate with them, it's my joy and passion, and that's politics for me. But here I have to say that as much discredit as I have personally received in my political life, our client and the people I know, on this side, have not been from anyone and no other party. With all the other parties, there was some way to talk, find the word, there was no offense at the personal level. There was also something to be said with other parties, to agree on what substantive matter, to find a compromise; but here there were things that we cannot just forget. No other party takes pictures of Members during the debate and then makes fun, publishes pictures, reptiles, uses social networks, makes fun of customer leaders, changes word lapsuses into people's work, uses their social networks and media to humiliate, and so on. And I hope you're aware of that. This is something that people notice, and in addition to everything else that has been said today, it also makes it difficult to participate in the National Assembly. Not politics, not different policies; these modes of action, these discredits. I've only been able to get something like this lately from the Left. Even in Levica, such manners, if I say so myself, are common. But I, as I say, conclude optimistically, in the hope that in this national assembly we are able and at least willing to try to overcome this resentment. Today, most of the National Assembly has discussed the need to cooperate, to help one another to the benefit of the citizens. Well, except for the Left, who says she'll do everything herself and that we're all corrupt neoliberals and only ecological socialism will save us. But everyone else may be able to show some new culture, and in that sense I, and I hope that my client, hands off. But first you'll have to show this new culture. And if you do, on our side, at least I'm talking to myself, the door will be open. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u121	Madam Ambassador, you're done with the door open. Your debate closed the door for discussion. With this, honourable Members, we are moving to a vote on the proposal of the President of the Republic to elect the President of the Government. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution, the election of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall be a secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on the proposal of the President. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for members of the voting committee, namely: Mr Franz Breznik, Mrs Andreja Zabret, Mrs Janja Slug and Mr Miha Kordiš. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a composition of the commission? No, no, no. Thank you. I take it we can move on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 74 votes in favour, 2 votes in favour. [[The vote was 74.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, a vote shall be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and shall state his name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word “for” or “against”. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution, the candidate for the President of the Government will be elected if voted for by the majority of all Members and Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a secret vote. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 4:45 p.m. and will continue until 5 p.m. Members and Members who will assist me in the vote, please meet in room 217 after the vote. With this, honourable Members and Members, I interrupt this item on the agenda and the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue at 17.15. Thank you. (The sitting was suspended at 4.37 p.m. and resumed at 17.15 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u122	Dear Members! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We continue with the interrupted 11.A point, this is with the Proposal for the election of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm publishing the outcome of the vote. The minutes on the outcome of the vote on the proposal for the election of Mr Janez Janša as President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are as follows. The vote was held at the National Assembly on 3 March 2020. 84 ballots were distributed, 84 ballots were delivered, 1 ballot was invalid, 83 votes were valid. 52 members voted against. 31 members voted against. / applause/ On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mr Janez Janša was elected President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by a majority of the votes of all Members. Congratulations to Mr Janez Janša, and I wish him a successful job in carrying out his duties as Prime Minister of the Government! I also ask Mr Janez Janša to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u123	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u124	Mr. President, would you like to talk to the National Assembly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u125	A respected choir! Thank you so much for trusting me. Thank you for your confidence also to all those who voted for the Slovenian Democratic Party in the last national elections, as well as to all three other parties with which we managed to form a majority coalition. We are aware that there are important challenges ahead of us, while we are convinced that we are able to overcome these challenges through responsible governance with the country and through integration policy. The first step was taken today. I expect to be able to bring a candidate list for the new government before this high assembly in a relatively short time. I hope it's quality. As far as the party I run is concerned, we will certainly propose people who have experience not only in leading the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but also in the experience of the last Presidency of the European Union, because this is also a challenge that awaits us in the remainder of this mandate. As regards the programme, as we said before, you will be facing a programme that will be drawn up on the basis of a coalition agreement that has been signed, which is well known and will contain concrete measures that we intend to address these challenges ahead of us in the remainder of this mandate. Thank you all for a very constructive debate today, too, for the many proposals that we will try to take into account to the best of our ability. It's been a long day. After us are long hours of talking, and before us are days of effort and work for the common good. Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u126	I thank the President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, there is also a message to the National Assembly. Since Mr Janez Janša has been elected Prime Minister of the Government, he cannot act as a Member in the course of his duties. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission and ask it to inform the assembly which candidate will act as a Member instead of him in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. In doing so, the National Assembly shall be informed of the following decision, pursuant to Article 10, paragraph 2, of the Law on Parliamentary Control of Intelligence and Security Services relating to the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It is noted that Mr Janša, a member of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, who is temporarily unable to act as President of the Government, has ceased to serve as a member of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services today. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Before the adjournment of the meeting, I also inform you that I have just filed a written statement of resignation from the office of President of the National Assembly. Allow me to explain my resignation in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, the distinguished others are present! In view of the development of political events and the efforts to form a new government, in which the Social Democrats will not be involved, I have made a statement of resignation from the position of President of the National Assembly. After a year and a half of running the National Assembly, I would like first to thank everyone for their cooperation. Thus you, the distinguished leaders of the Group, you, fellow Members and fellow Members, as well as the governments and coalition partners so far, as well as other institutions and political partners. But most of all, I would like to thank the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, Mrs Ursula Zore Tavcar, all the employees of the National Assembly and the narrowest team. Neither through TV screens nor here, because in this room it is not possible to detect all the work that needs to be done in order to carry out our basic function, this is a legislative function. The same applies to a number of other necessary tasks and events taking place in this house. Thank you all very much! In a year and a half, it was not possible to do everything you wanted, but let me point out a few points. First, the adoption of the Law on the National Assembly. With him now, after almost three decades of existence, certain areas are finally regulated, such as the autonomy of the National Assembly. Certain specificities related to the work itself in this body are regulated and so on. Secondly, it was necessary to rebuild the small Parliamentary Chamber. The conservatory-restaurant parts tried best to preserve its characteristics, original materials and patino, but at the same time it now offers quality conditions part. Thirdly, I should put forward my efforts in the light of the promotion of active citizenship and the implementation and planned strategic focus. With a focus on the foundations of the rule of law, last fall we made our way. The next consultation of the Climate Agreement, however, exceeded expectations and served with a clear message. Such important matters need to be discussed, heard, found solutions and maintained. The appropriate address of the challenges of the climate and environmental crisis means a great deal to me personally, but it has also proved to be very important in the consultations carried out that they are open to active participation by professions, policies, decision makers, and many other stakeholders. The National Assembly is certainly more than a suitable place for such discussions, so I would like them to continue with them in the future. As follows, I would like to stress the importance of the international activities of the National Assembly. During my presidency, we have further strengthened our contacts with a certain country, with our friends in the region and around the world, and strengthened the visibility of Slovenia; at the same time, if I may mention only Northern Macedonia, we have actively supported them in their efforts. I am aware that these contacts - even in discussions with you, my fellow Members and colleagues - I have stressed this in particular - are particularly important now that we are preparing for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Finally, although the list is much longer, let me also highlight the events that marked us three decades ago and through which we paved our way to a independent and independent state of Slovenia. Let's be proud of her! Let us be proud of our country! Respected and respected! I'm sorry we haven't been able to finish some things yet. Among them, for example, the adoption of an ethical code. But I do believe that I leave my successor or heir a good legacy. I'm resigning myself because I don't want to be in the way of a new coalition. However, I wish her wisdom in making decisions for the benefit of Slovenia and all its people. Thank you and good luck! / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2020-03-03-SDZ8-Redna-16.ana.u127	To the president of the Magi. Thank you, Diane, for the explanation given. On the basis of Articles 112 and 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the national assembly shall be informed of the following decision: On 3 March 2020, Dejan Židan submitted a written statement of resignation from the presidency of the National Assembly. That is why he ends his office as President of the National Assembly today. In this place, I will take a moment to thank you for your thorough and conscientious work as President of the National Assembly. With your mediation approach, you have successfully smoothed the differences between the debaters and made sure that the Rules of Procedure are implemented consistently. As a fellow Member and a gentleman with many virtues, I sincerely thank you and wish you the best in the work of the Member. Because he's a magician. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 20 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I shall terminate the function of President of the National Assembly until the election of the new President of the National Assembly. I hereby adjourn the 16th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended 3. MARCH 2020 AT 17.28.)
