ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 19th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Andrej Černigoj from 9 a.m. to 10.30 p.m., Matjaž Han from 15 a.m., Dušan Šiško, Primož Siter from 12 a.m., Dr. Matej T. Vatovec and Violeta Tomić. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the Council to the 13th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Wednesday, 1 July 2020, by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 19th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving to four. Agenda item — Second defence of the draft law on intervention measures for preparation at 2nd wave of COVID-19, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Janez Cigler King, the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, good afternoon! On the table before you is the fourth package of measures, the draft law on intervention measures to prepare for the second wave covid-19. The aim of the proposal is to provide assistance to citizens and citizens, to protect the health and lives of people and to prevent the spread of the infection. The bill follows the principle of protecting the health and life of people and ensuring liquidity for economic operators. The main measures therefore relate to the extension of the waiting period, the fixing and payment of the remuneration for a certain quarantine, the financing of additional staff in the social security institutions in the public network and the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia and the mobile application for the notification of contacts with the infected, if mentioned at the outset of the bearing measures. Let me give you a little more details on these measures. First measure, extension of the waiting-at-home measure. Two key intervention measures have been taken for the labour market in order to maintain jobs with legislative anti-koron packages, a compensation measure to compensate for the waiting period and a measure to subsidise short-term full-time employment. In order to maintain the employment of workers, the Government proposes to extend the remuneration of workers on temporary stay at home, which proved to be effective on the one hand and necessary on the other, as some 60,000 employees were still registered on this measure in June. This measure enables a part of the economy that has not yet started its activities to the extent that it can benefit or assist itself with a short-term measure which, as you know, is in force by the end of this year to survive this period until they can start their activities. For this reason, we propose to extend the duration of this temporary waiting period at home until 31 July 2020, but we also propose that the decision of the Government will allow this measure to be extended for a maximum period of two months, but for a maximum period of time until 30 September 2020, we hope that the Slovenian economy will be able to fully start its activities by then. To the justified employer, the Employment Office will pay a partial remuneration for a worker on hold of 80 % of the remuneration, which is limited to the maximum amount of the unemployment allowance of 892,50 euros. However, we also introduce a guardian employer will be unable to forgive for business reasons during the period of use of the measure or to cancel employment contracts for a large number of workers for business reasons. The second measure, the proposed measure, is the fixing and payment of compensation for a certain quarantine. The purpose of the bill is also to mitigate the effects of certain quarantine workers on the burden of the employer, a worker who is quarantined and cannot be assigned work at home, labour law imposes payment of salary compensation for absence. Under system law, the Labour Relations Act has replaced this with 50% of his salary and is the burden of his employer. The draft law imposes the burden of payment on the State budget. In this way, employers will have the possibility to enforce the remuneration even for these cases. The amendments adopted by the competent parliamentary committee related to the fixing of the amount of the remuneration for this measure to a certain degree of quarantine. Let me say that we agreed on these changes and on this scale of compensation on Monday morning at the working group of the Economic and Social Council, when we met with the social partners in preparation for the meeting of the parent committee and went through the whole law, which was the result of an agreement between the social partners in this working group. Allow me to summarise these amounts of compensation or the rate of reimbursement to employers. A worker who goes to a country on a green or yellow list and who, at the time of the border crossing back to Slovenia, will be quarantined or quarantined for contact with an infected person and the employer will not be able to organise work at home for him, will be entitled to a refund of 80 % of his average monthly full-time salary. An employee who will be quarantined for contact with an infected person in the framework of his or her work as an employer and who will not be able to organise work at home for him shall have the right to compensation for the salary he or she would have received if he worked. This means that the compensation will cover 100% of its average monthly full-time salary. And level three. A worker who has been quarantined for leaving the country, i.e. knowingly leaving the country on the red list, will not be entitled to compensation for his salary during a specified period of quarantine except in those exceptions, on the grounds of the death of a spouse or an extramarital partner or the death of a child, the adopter or the child of the spouse or the extramarital partner. Another time. The death of parents — father, mother, spouse, or extramarital partner, parent, adoptive parent, or third due to the birth of a child. In these cases, the worker will be entitled to compensation in these three exceptional cases for the remuneration of half the payment to which he would otherwise be entitled if he worked, but not less than 70 % of the minimum wage. The eligibility for reimbursement of refunds, due to a certain quarantine, will last for a maximum period of time after this marriage package until 30 September 2020. We have therefore agreed on this in the Working Group of the Economic and Social Council, and we believe that this proposed solution is fair and at the same time assumes the burden of employers who are not, of course, responsible for their employees being quarantined. On the other hand, it also gives employees greater social security, and this is also one of the main purposes of this law. The third of the portability measures is the financing of additional personnel. It refers to additional human resources support for social protection institutions in the public network and the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment. The protection of the elderly is a key theme of the ministry under my leadership and leadership, our team. As you know, homes for the elderly, especially nursing homes, are fed, staff and financial, which has been gathering for decades and has now been flowing especially daily during the crown of the crisis. As a result, this mainly reflects the overcrowding and burn-out of employees in these institutions. And once again, in this crisis, this has proved to be the case in particular. I am therefore very pleased that we have managed to provide €31 million in intervention to address the human resources crisis over the next two years. It is very important in this regard, and this is a practical consequence, which concerns a large part of our fellow citizens, that these human resources reinforcements and improving standards in our homes will not be placed on the shoulders of the caregivers or their owners, so there will be no need to raise supply prices. We devote financial resources to the financing of additional staff in the social security institutions of the public network for the provision of social and health services in these institutions. We also provide additional staff support to the Employment Service during the COVID-19 epidemic, which is that employees of the Employment Service have taken an extremely important role as the main operators of the intervention measures. If I only mention 300,000 applications for job protection on the various measures offered in the previous PKP packages within three months, I think that I will be well justified in this. In the future, the Employment Office will play a very important role in ensuring a responsive labour market, one of three key priorities for me as a minister. For the next two years, they will be crucial to ensuring a stable economy and, consequently, to ensure quality jobs, we provide this additional staff support to the Employment Service to support them in the process of reintegrating the unemployed into the labour market and reducing the number of unemployed. The next action, which raised a lot of dust, is a mobile application for communication with the infected. The fourth measure, which falls within the competence of the Ministry of Public Administration, relates to the prevention of the spread of communicable disease COVID-19 and provides for the establishment and operation of a mobile application to inform persons who are in contact with the SARS-COV-2 virus based on the provisions of the law on communicable diseases. The installation and use of mobile applications will be voluntary and free of charge, except in cases where an individual is confirmed to be positive for the virus or will therefore be quarantined. In these cases, the installation of a mobile application will be mandatory by entering a random ID code. We believe that with preventive measures such as mobile applications, we can protect people's health and life well, and ultimately it is our duty to protect ourselves and others and the right of all of us to be protected from possible infection. Here the Government is counting on the responsibility we have shown citizens and citizens since the start of the pandemic and we are also grateful for all that we have been able to achieve together so far. In addition to the measures mentioned above, we are regulating this law, and in this proposal there are several others. Perhaps I will mention that we will allow the refund of vouchers for the installation of breakfast in tourism in Slovenia, also for those who are only seasonally registered to carry out this activity, so we withdraw the cut-off date of registration on March 13th and also allow those who are seasonally engaged in this, so that the tourist voucher, which you know is currently a real success, can be of wider benefit. This will also allow for a wider range of those or tourist destinations where these vouchers can be summered. We also extend the possibility of using food vouchers. We know that students have not been able to fulfil all their obligations within the expected deadlines, in the system-planned deadlines, so we have listened to a number of calls from their representatives and have opposed them so that they can also benefit from student vouchers during these summer months when they may be able to carry out their practice and thus have a healthy diet. It is not too much to mention that we are extending or withdrawing the current limitation that we have on human resources scholarships or commitments, we are transferring the commitment that human resources scholarship holders have to theirs, the grantors of their scholarships. In fact, it was not possible to provide them with employment within the time limit laid down in the system law, so we extend these deadlines to ease these hardships and, for objective reasons, punish the taxpayers to ensure that they work for their fellow students. Dear Members and Members! With your support, we have taken a number of measures to prevent or mitigate the negative effects of COVID-19 on citizens and citizens in a number of areas. Our common goal was to alleviate the social pressures of the population and, on the other hand, to help the economy and the labour market. In this way, 1.3 million people received direct financial assistance during the epidemic. If I only mention the value card for tourism, it has been received by every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. With the first packages of measures or the first three, we have managed to maintain 260,000 jobs so far. We can only imagine the consequences on the labour market if these measures are not taken. Today, with a proposal for a fourth package of measures, I ask you to take the proposed solutions to existing and future challenges. Risks of infection are now rising in Slovenia. Summer joys are ongoing, but at the same time we must all experience them with full awareness that another wave of infections can be repeated. Government measures are therefore also geared towards achieving the objective of preventing the potential threat of another wave. The bill before you is a response to the real need to maintain jobs, after providing additional resources for extra staff in nursing homes, and the third and last time after providing security for citizens through an online application at a time when the threat of the epidemic is not over. Once again, honourable Members and Members, I ask you to support these solutions prepared in close cooperation with all relevant departments, the Economic and Social Council and taking into account the views of the stakeholders concerned, with which we have also coordinated our views within the Working Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. I give the floor to my colleague, Eva Irgle, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent, considered the draft law on intervention measures to prepare for the second wave of COVID-19 submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. In the course of the business period, a number of amendments were tabled by the parliamentary groups in different combinations. The Committee also received proposals and comments from interested and professional public who presented their views and comments in writing on the text of the law submitted. The representative of the proposer briefly presented the draft law. In the debate of the Commission, a large part of the debate was devoted to the question of the adequacy, clarity and consistency of the provisions of the draft law relating to Chapters 3 and 4. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service was presented by their representative, stressing that the areas to which the proposal for a law relates are more and are diversified as well. In their written opinion, they highlighted the constitutional and legal aspect related to the right to a legislative referendum. The draft law is also accompanied by a proposal for a decision establishing the inadmissibility of an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum, and therefore all the content of the law should be justified as a necessary measure to remedy the consequences of a natural accident, since the inclusion of other content which does not constitute such an emergency measure could result in the constitutional non-conformity and excessive application of the constitutional prohibition of a referendum and interference with the right to a referendum which could prove constitutionally inadmissible in the constitutional procedure. From this point of view, in particular, the provisions of Part Three and Chapter Five of the Act are disputed because they do not follow intervention measures, i.e. temporary measures, and because these measures are not limited in time. Such an intervention into the legal system violates its integrity and coherence. In the debate, some members and members of the committee felt that the fourth anti-korona law was coming too late and was supposed to solve the problems caused by the Government itself by not listening to the many amendments tabled by the opposition's representatives to past anti-korona laws. The explanations for individual articles of the law are very general and flat-rate, as also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. According to some discussers, the bill is moving away from the rule of law. It was pointed out that the law reinstated a group of reprimands and self-employed. Representatives of the opposition felt that the Government had also put measures for the control of citizens in the draft law between social measures. It is a mobile application to inform persons who have been quarantined with SARS-COV2 infection. Proponents of the proposed measures stressed that the mobile application will help epidemiologists to identify the contacts of the infected. It is not intended to establish a police state and control citizens, but to protect citizens and their health. The application will be most useful to people to get the right information if, of course, they want it. The representatives of the Ministry of Health and Public Administration said that the mobile app is not yet ready, but the profession welcomes it. The fact has been highlighted that the bill also provides an additional EUR 31 million in institutional protection under the Social Protection Act, which will aim at increasing spatial capacity and financing additional staff in social protection institutions. The Committee has adopted a number of amendments to the various parliamentary groups and has voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, a colleague of Brana Golubovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is right that this law corrects government errors and prolongs the validity of certain measures. But there have been too many mistakes and missed opportunities in the last three months, and we believe that the Government is not responsible enough and professionally and that it is the right way to approach the search for and prepare solutions for all anti-korona laws. If the government knew what he was doing, today we would have solutions to prevent the virus from entering the homes for the elderly. How to make sure our health care is ready for the second wave that is already here. Companies, workers and self-employed should already have predictable and effective support from the State. At today's meeting, the serious government would present concrete medium-term measures to encourage household and state spending through public investment and green subsidies. But it becomes clear that you have used the epidemic to promote yourself, create confusion and uncertainty, and decommission and subjugate different state systems. You represent yourself as great saviors, life-savers, social pressures, the fate of both people and businesses. Are you sure everything's listed? You're not. You have advertised extraordinary state aid to people and businesses amounting to EUR 6 billion, as we welcomed in the Marjan Sarca List, but recently the mirror was set up by the Fiscal Council, which assessed that the actual impact of your actions by the beginning of July was slightly less than EUR 1.1 billion, which is a logical consequence of poorly prepared legislation. Let me just remind you of your 2-billion-dollar guarantee scheme with which you promised the economy immediate assistance, but after a good two-month scheme still doesn't work. And we've warned you, but you've always seen all our suggestions as some kind of competition, an attempt to overthrow the government, and you've told us that we don't want to cooperate. That's what you did on the board. That's not what mature politics does. The responsible policy also operates in a calm, cohesive, coordinated way of communicating in crisis situations, trying to create stability so that society can act as normal as possible despite the crisis. But what are you doing? You deliberately create tension and chaos and deceive. Create a problem and then solve it. For example, without question, you released all measures, opened borders, and declared victory over the virus on June 1st. Then you realized that a mistake had been made, that the virus was spreading again, and by means of its speakers at the press conferences, you informed who was responsible — people are to blame because they do not respect the rules. You're saying that he's surrounded people with a false feeling that the virus has been defeated. But who gave them this false feeling that the virus was defeated? The government gave it to them, a government speaker, all government speakers with their actions and actions, and that is why it is your fault that the second wave is in Slovenia. In addition, you have introduced mistrust among people by means of legal provisions that have nothing to look for in intervention laws. First, additional powers for the police, then lowering the standards for environmental and nature protection, and changes in the building permit, now the tracking application. Why don't you hope to introduce these things separately? Or is it because you want to force some coalition MPs in this way, or simply diverting attention from other robots? Technology can help, but your surveillance app is controversial. Your profession has listed a range of technical and legal reasons. Even if you succeed with the application, it will have no effect - why? - because it works on trust, but it is not and the bulk of the population of this application will not be charged. So, reverend government, the virus's application will not stop, just as it hasn't been stopped by the flying of American hunters over Slovenia. The epidemic can only be faced by the state in a way that people believe what the Government tells, its actions and its messages. That people have a sense of uncertainty instead of feeling that everything will still be good, that everything will be okay, that the government and the professionals will trust. Unfortunately, you have had the confidence you had in the first wave of the epidemic, and it was a great deal because of your actions and actions you lost. Trust can only be regained by a statesman, but there are none in this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u7	Thank you. The text is by the Social Democrats' Group of Members, colleague Sonibo Knezak.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u8	Thank you, President. Dear Minister, representatives of the government. Colleagues, colleagues! The fourth anti-corinary package is a package of intervention measures to prepare for a possible second wave of COVID-19. In recent weeks, the number of confirmed infections with the virus has increased again, and unfortunately again a critical situation has emerged with more infections in one of the homes for older citizens. The short duration of the government's measures to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic remains among our main critics. When we present our position on the adoption of the third anti-Korona law, we have stressed that, despite the slow release of restrictive measures, there will still be uncertainty about the possible resurgence of the epidemic. And these very days it appears that restrictions are still necessary, and this, we believe, must be followed by comprehensive measures to mitigate the social and economic consequences of the epidemic. While the growth in the number of unemployed is calming, we still need a longer-term strategy to maintain jobs. One not only for a month or two, on the other hand, the longevity of unemployment prevention measures will have a greater positive impact on the economy. Social Democrats have thus proposed to the Committee to extend the remuneration for the waiting period until 31 December 2020 and to reintroduce the provisional basic income for self-employed persons. With regard to tourist vouchers, we are convinced that the time of their use should be extended until the end of February 2021. On the one hand, this would benefit providers of tourism capacity during the winter season and consumers when overcrowding of capacity would be more time-consuming. Unfortunately, all our measures have already been rejected again. [[Incomprehensible]] Unfortunately, under the pretext of mitigating the consequences of the epidemic, provisions that disproportionately interfere with the basic right to the protection of personal data are being adopted again. The government has proposed an article which, although deleted from the Committee, could lead to the abuse of personal data in the event of admission. Furthermore, the Government has also proposed the introduction of a mobile application, which we believe can make an important contribution to the control of the epidemic, but only under fulfilled conditions. It's volunteerism, anonymization, time constraints. Unfortunately, this chapter, with clear warnings from the Legislative and Legal Service, the Information Commissioners and other competent institutions, has been released or simply ignored by our Government. There is no way to avoid the issue of the effectiveness of such a measure, considering that we do not all have a smart mobile phone on which to load an application. Especially the elderly who are in a situation between vulnerable groups, which could affect not only the reliability of the data. Even more than the information officer wrote, the application can give people a false sense of security, which is why we will no longer implement those measures that have proved effective in limiting the virus. Since the provisions of the law defining a mobile application in the opinion of the Social Democrats are legally unclear, as neither clear responsibilities for the protection of personal data under the Constitution nor the laws nor the rights of users of the application nor liability in the event of a violation of this law will we support. As has already been said, we can also be concerned about the short duration of government measures, government proposals in the economic and social part of the law. These measures do not affect the increasingly worrying economy, increase uncertainty and fear, which are one of the main drivers of growth and development.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, a colleague of Mojca Žnidarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. That's a nice hello to all of us! Today we have the fourth so-called anti-krone package, which contains a number of measures to prepare our country for the second wave of the epidemic. In doing so, we would like to point out that today we are talking about the fourth package, not the fourth amendment of the first antikron package. In doing so, we simply need to be precise, because the coalition and the government are constantly being re-flyed, that the first anti-korona package is in vain, that it is not good, that the measures are insufficient or even meaningless, and that this law is being amended for the fifth time. It just doesn't hold. The law that we have on the parliamentary benches today is a separate law and provides for measures to prepare for the second wave. Turning to the question of the sense of adopting a new anti-korona package of measures each month, the following points need to be stressed: that Members are taking additional new measures simply means that this government coalition responds to social change and to the new reality that the Crown has brought to us. Sadly, some have a different view of the matter. Although the bill provides for a number of measures that are good and will help us to overcome the second wave, most of the attention has been diverted only to the mobile application to track infections. The fact is that living with the virus has become our new reality, and we will have to learn to live in the future. The interest of all should be to find a solution in the long run, which, despite the presence of the virus, will enable us to live as normal a life as possible. And in this context, it makes sense that we also use modern technology to help preserve our health and responsibility towards others. That is why we support the idea of application in the SMC. On the other hand, we are aware that the application will achieve its purpose only if it is used by a sufficient number of self-disciplined people and, in particular, if understood as a useful tool for detecting the risk of infection. Because the virus cannot be affected by such strict measures unless people take them as part of the daily routine. Nevertheless, the content of Article 24 of the Law was unacceptable for us, so we insisted on the end of this article. The questions and dilemmas raised in the Committee's debate on the application have overshadowed all the other measures envisaged by this anti-korona law, but are nevertheless to be highlighted. Reimbursement of salaries for workers on hold shall be paid for workers who have been quarantined and paid to employers. 31 million for additional staff in older citizens' homes, ensuring respect for the transit of persons through Slovenia, the redemption of the voucher is possible for all service providers that meet the conditions at any time in 2020 and not only on the day 13. 3. 2020. students will benefit from student food homes by the end of July this year. The first wave of the epidemic has been successfully defeated. At the same time, we hoped that the second wave of the epidemic would not catch up with us. But with all due care and responsibility, we were aware that we needed to be prepared for it. In this light, it is therefore important that we take the measures proposed as soon as possible and, with all responsibility to our citizens, we contribute to overcoming the second wave as successfully as we did the first. We will support the bill in the SMC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Left Parliamentary Group, for her colleague Natasha Sukić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye! With this fourth anti-Korona law, the Government of Janez Janša has once again demonstrated its incompetence and carelessness, without any public debate, without the involvement of the professional public, introduces the mandatory use of a mobile application for the control of citizens. On the other hand, the rejection of the amendments of the Left and the other opposition clearly showed that it would not help those worst affected by the outbreak. Students who have lost their jobs are left without any compensation. Self-employed people who have lost their jobs and income are also without any help. The extension of subsidies for employers who sent workers on hold does not again contain a key protector. Employers will be able to forgive workers without consequences despite receiving high state subsidies. In doing so, they will be able to pay off their profits and their high rewards. The coalition cylindrical once again overstepped our amendments without explanation. These included assistance to self-employed people in the form of basic income, assistance to students in the form of income-loss compensation and social assistance to all others who would be plunged into poverty as a result of the epidemic. Amendments were also introduced that provided for sanctions for employers who, despite receiving public funds to maintain employment, would have largely forgiven them. Without marriage vows, that's exactly what's going to happen, no matter what the Minister of Labour is talking about. Instead of the government solving people's actual hardships and preventing the negative social consequences of the epidemic, it's frightening. At the time of adoption of this law, it is feared that the only alternative to a mandatory tracking application for persons who are quarantined is that the only alternative to additional powers for repressive authorities is a drastic halt to public life. It's a delusion and a false dilemma. On 15 May, the government lifted the epidemic early in order to save money. Since then, she has done virtually nothing to improve health infrastructure in order to strengthen epidemiological services and homes for older citizens. In the meantime, the government of Janez Janša has not provided suitable sites for the isolation of infected residents in the homes of older citizens, has not organised extensive testing and has not strengthened the financing of the health treasury, on the contrary, it has announced at this time that it would devote EUR 780 million to raising unnecessary purchases of weapons. Instead of mobile applications and weapons, we urgently need investment in health infrastructure and in the homes of older citizens and in new personnel that will be paid with dignity. We need extensive testing, we need a stable health treasury and we need a power that will communicate clearly and distinctly, which the current government is not doing. For all of this, the government has had time, but rather was involved in investment in the military, in hawbice and armory, now that the time is coming again, and when the number of infected is increasing, they will solve their incompetence and inaction by applying and harsh intervention into the constitutional rights of the inhabitants. The application cannot replace testing, the application cannot replace testing, the application does not treat people and the application is not the solution to the health crisis. The application only strengthens the supervisory function of the country. Before choosing to invest in health care or to strengthen repressive appliances, the government chose a cheaper, more favourable option for capital, which will not be effective after the summit, as demonstrated by practices from abroad, for example from France, where the application worked 14 times in three weeks, worked 14 times in three weeks. Instead of investing in the welfare of people and satisfying health needs, the government is strengthening the repressive apparatus. We will always say no to such policies in Levica, and here we are predicting that we will align constitutional judgment with the rest of the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The text is by the Parliamentary Group New Slovenia-Christian Democrats. I'm a colleague of Tadej Shuštar's.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u14	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister and all the others who accompany the meeting! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared new intervention measures to prepare for the second wave of coronary infections. The law is not as extensive as it has been before, but it includes key measures aimed at preventing or mitigating serious economic and health damage. The main ones are the four solutions. The first prolongs the measure set out in the previous package, namely that the temporary waiting period should also apply in July. The Government may then extend it twice for another month, up to 30 September 2020. The employer receives 80 % of the remuneration from the country, which greatly reduces the wage burden for the employer. The second measure concerns remuneration for a certain quarantine. If a worker is quarantined for contact with an infected person in the context of his work and the worker is unable to perform work at home, the worker shall receive the remuneration he would have received if he had worked. If a worker is quarantined for going to a country on a yellow or green list, he will receive 80% of the remuneration if the employer is unable to organise work at home for him. However, if the worker goes to the country on the red list and is therefore given a quarantine and the employer will not be able to organise work at home for him, the worker will not be entitled to compensation during the quarantine period. The employer will have the right to pay the salaries paid if his employees are unable to perform work or cannot be organised at home due to a certain quarantine. If the amendment of the coalition parties to Article 25 is adopted, the notification of the quarantine decision can also be made to an electronic address, not only in person. A lot of concerns were raised in public by the mobile application. This would be important for informing those infected with the virus and those subject to quarantine. It would be a great help to epidemiologists who spend a lot of time finding as many contacts as possible for the infected. The application would anonymously record the contact information between users of the application. I'd be willing and free. It would only be mandatory for persons who were quarantined or positive for the coronary virus. They shall enter in the application a random code, without personal data, which they shall receive together with the results of the test or the Quarantine Decision. The Minister of Health shall determine the distance and duration of contacts recorded by the application and the period for which the application informs the contact with the infected person or person designated by the quarantine. Contact details shall be automatically deleted after 15 days. It would work with Bluetooth, not based on location data. The application would also not record contacts with accidental mobile application users and users who would, for example, be 100 metres away, but only contacts for which, according to the professional origins, take into account their distance and duration, are considered to pose a risk to the infection. The following measure applies to persons who should not have entered the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, for example, due to a poor epidemiological picture of the country from which they came. They shall be allowed to travel in transit for a maximum period of 12 hours. In order to avoid abuse, the border crossing must indicate a form indicating, inter alia, the vehicle registration number at the time of entry into the Republic of Slovenia and the entry and exit border crossing. This form must have transit through Slovenia with it all the time and show it at the exit border. These measures are key in controlling the spread of the virus and have proved successful or cover areas that have proven to be malnourished and need to be further regulated at the first wave. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we believe that, like the first three antikorona packages, this package is also good, functional and especially designed for people. We want to make these difficult times as easy as possible for citizens, to ensure that they are as safe and healthy as possible and to maintain as many jobs as possible. In the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, we will be happy to support the law unanimously, while congratulating Minister Janez Cigler King and his team and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the excellent work done.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The text is by the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek, a colleague of Vojko Starović. [[advertising in the hall]] Let's move on. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, colleague Yuri Lep.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! A few months ago, at the first so-called anti-Korona meeting of the National Assembly, when we took the first urgent measures aimed at combating the new virus epidemic, we assessed in the Desus Group that the new health threat situation was serious. That it is a great challenge that we must not underestimate. We knew that we would spend some time as a society on a serious test of how to deal effectively with all aspects and consequences of such a diversified problem, which did not end at the point of society's survival from a health point of view, but meant dealing with broader economic and social aspects. We have declared an end to the epidemic, which does not mean carelessness, but the beginning of a slightly different way of life. Despite the end of the epidemic, the SARS-COV-2 virus still has a strong impact on our lives, work and, of course, habits. Epidemiological images are still not stable, the fact is that in the release of public life, the number of infections is increasing everywhere. Therefore, precautionary and restrictive measures are still necessary in order to maintain at least approximately normal daily progress, the stability of the economic sector, social security of the population and, of course, the availability of health facilities. It is clear that, despite so far very generous aid measures, the country alone will not be able to carry out the task of protecting the population. It is up to all of us, too, to help the country successfully cope with the viral crisis without the disastrous consequences for the health system and our economy. Experiences over the past months have shown that we can be compatible, since we have not spread the virus headlessly. The State's financial assistance had previously eased economic downturns and thus successfully prevented the alarming state of the unemployment picture, and vulnerable groups were given special aid and we had completed school year more or less successfully. However, the economy is still fragile and the subsidisation measures introduced in March and June for the labour market are still needed. This help also refers to the fourth package that is ahead of us today. The legal proposal with additional tourist facilities builds on the assistance of tourism. Tourism has been able to make some improvements in this summer with the help of the country's tourist vouchers. The burden of the costs of certain quarantines will be borne by the State, the complementary proposal of the law includes the solutions created by the social partners, the amount of compensation is adjusted to the reason for issuing the quarantine decision and we agree with the new solutions at this point in the Desus Group. Also welcome will be €31 million, which will be allocated to the resolution of the staff shortage in nursing homes. The PKP4 package also adapts to an epidemiological picture abroad in view of new infections characterised mainly by external entry, the introduction of a mobile application to monitor infections and certain quarantines is necessary. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to trust people who are quarantined and who are infected to treat themselves and the environment and the entire population of Slovenia responsibly and adhere to the restrictions of movement that are necessary to prevent the re-emergency of the epidemic. A well-known media example of the behaviour of an infected person who went to work carefree and his partner with a certain quarantine that could potentially cause the collapse of the Ljubljana UKC. By monitoring the respect for certain quarantines and communicating with the infected, and as a result of caution and self-isolation, we will be able to achieve that any measures in the future will not require the re-engagement of our public life. The considerations of interference with our privacy through this application and the necessary processing of personal data are, of course, on the spot, so such an intervention in privacy must be built and justified on a well-founded, clear and strictly defined legal basis. As you know, we have also supported the deletion of Article 24 in the Desus Group, which we continue to insist on. The Desus Group will support the fourth set of anti-Korona measures in the form and content adopted by the Home Working Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The SNS Group, a colleague of Jani Ivanuš, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u18	Your Honor! Good day to all present, especially to the presiding and, of course, to the Minister of the King. The government is ahead of parliamentary holidays, which are speeding up at the door and preparing for the second wave of covid-19, which it wants to take under the roof, while some are already happy to benefit from vouchers across Slovenia. What and how it'll go forward no one knows. Maybe there's another third wave, a fourth wave before we have the vaccine. The amendment of the law lays down temporary measures in the field of labour and labour relations, scholarships, health care and welfare institutions. Among other things, the principle of cost-effectiveness is followed where financial resources must be managed quickly with as little cost as possible and without delay. 370 million euros will go from the state budget. Additional administrative obligations are foreseen for beneficiaries, which means more work. The scope of the main solutions is somehow expected to be extended by the end of this month. In doing so, it is relevant that the remuneration must not be lower than the minimum wage in the Republic of Slovenia. The employer shall, inter alia, not assign overtime or temporarily reassign work if the employer is able to do so with the workers on temporary leave for work. Why would some work more than eight hours, while others wait at home on the couch and enjoy themselves? At the time of receiving the remuneration, employers should not have to forgive workers, but it seems to us that this practice is becoming more and more, as we see the long-term types of unemployed people in front of employment institutions. Inspection has to be to do what needs to be done. The payment of the remuneration for a certain quarantine shall also be determined. During this time, the majority of people at sea in Croatia, in the former Yugoslavia, in the premises of the former Yugoslavia, are in place to stay safe at home. Paradises cross the border and tremble if they have to return early from vacation, for no one wants to be quarantined or even risk losing their jobs. The beneficiaries of older people's protection will also be on their way, as additional staff will be financed at the amount of €31 million for the provision of social and health services, which will facilitate daily work. The far most resilient burning issue is the mobile app for communication with the infected, where a lot of ink has already been spilled on this topic. It will be made on the basis of Italian or German, based on Bluetootf technology. We always have two genders, one advocates it, the other are strictly against it. All of them argue or but for healthy users of accommodation and use on a voluntary basis, and they cost nothing. They're gonna have problems with older people who don't have all the smart phones. The data shall be recorded anonymously as a random single use code has been assigned. The matter is well placed on which abuses should not occur, but it is true that some feel threatened because they want to monitor the location. The information officer is also concerned. If a person is honest and has a clean conscience, he has nothing to fear from criminals but a completely different story. Criminal provisions with high fines are also prescribed. The Slovenian Chamber of Commerce and Industry wanted the Government to include measures to address the liquidity problems of companies in the fourth anti-Korona law, including by reducing ddvs for individual sectors and by encouraging certain activities. For information, Germany has reduced the ddv rate from 19 per cent to 16 per cent until the new position. I don't think there's any need for an explanation. Finally, I'd like to ask you if you know that dogs are sheep, Spanish, and gold-bearers trained in German schools to identify the coronary infection in human saliva, 80 percent. Will we follow that example, too, I wonder. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group we will support the amendment of the law, where it is good for both citizens and the citizens' Republic of Slovenia as well as for the entire Slovenian economy. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, colleague Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that again. Dear Members, honourable Members! We are therefore looking at the draft law on intervention measures to prepare for the second wave covid-19, which is part of the so-called fourth anti-korona package. Together, we are all in an extremely great test because of the new wave or new infections and in some way in an interesting situation, because in the political space, which was seen in particular at the consideration of this law on Monday by the Labour Committee, there is an unreasonable reinforcement of the opposition to the Government's actions, which are necessary and necessary to combat new infections. Especially when we are talking about mobile applications, as well as other measures, such as social ones. The opposition Members voted against the law on the Committee of Work, including the provision of an additional €31 million for institutional protection. If ever, in just as difficult and difficult situations, when we as a society are fully under trial and we are witnessing to them today, we need to be able to confirm the measures that ultimately protect the health of all of us and mitigate the consequences caused by COVID-19. The first anti-Korona package was aimed at saving the economy, saving jobs and helping people. It is precisely the measures taken to compensate for the salary to wait for work and the measure to subsidise the shortening of full-time work that have proved to be extremely effective, all with a view to maintaining the employment of workers and jobs. One quarter of the jobs have been retained as a result of the Government's actions. The second package was intended in particular to ensure the liquidity of the economy and to assist all those vulnerable groups that were not covered in the first package. The third package was intended in particular for the resolution of Slovenian tourism, the introduction of vouchers that some are already benefiting from in various accommodations through our beautiful Slovenia and the adoption of other necessary measures prepared by a group of experts from different fields and coordinated with the social partners. The fourth anti-Korona package, which we are considering today, is proposing in particular the following sets of solutions. Firstly, the extension of the waiting period for a maximum of three months. Secondly, the fixing and payment of remuneration for a certain quarantine covered by the budget when the employer cannot organise work at home, the amount of compensation depends on the reason for the quarantine. A worker who has been quarantined at the border crossing has the right to a salary refund of 50 %. A worker who has been quarantined for contact with an infected person who is unable to perform work at home is entitled to a salary refund of 80%. Thirdly, institutional protection measures. The government has provided an additional €31 million for social welfare institutions in this law. In particular, the resources will be intended to improve the staffing situation that is home to the elderly and other forms of social protection, especially given the current worrying situation, they urgently need. This also means that improving standards in homes will not have any financial impact on suppliers or will therefore not require an increase in prices. This is also important because the most vulnerable groups in the conflict with COVID-19 are quite the elderly. At present, we have about 20,000 providers in nursing homes, as well as new infections with the virus in these institutions. Unfortunately, there are quite a few infected in the home of the elderly in the port of Vipava, where I come from, but we are doing everything we can to ensure that communication between the key ministries, local policy and professionals takes place quickly and efficiently, and I hope that they will find a suitable solution and that everything will work out for the best in Vipava. Fourthly, a mobile information application in contact with infected or potentially infected persons. In the major countries that introduced the so-called voluntary application, it has been shown not to be effective unless it is mandatory for persons in quarantine and infected persons. The main and only purpose of mobile applications is to protect human health and enable epidemiologists to do their work faster and more effectively. By faster identification of the number of infected or potentially infected, it can be demonstrated that the spread of the infection can be more rapid, which is clearly not in the interest of some who oppose it. It should be made clear that in this case it is not an intervention in privacy but a necessary and proportionate measure to effectively protect public health. At this stage of the fight against the COVID-19 epidemic, it is irresponsible to oppose the mobile application, which other countries already have, because it can also save many lives. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the law or the fourth anti-Korona package, as it is necessary to alleviate social pressures and to detect and prevent the spread of covid-19 in a timely manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levice and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes, that's why I'm opening the application. The first word is "colleague Tina Hefferle."
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. As is permitted in parliamentary practice, I will be discussing today, in the first amendment, a little wider, or the content that I consider to be something that needs to be said and pointed out. On the one hand, it saddens me that I have to be critical of this marriage again. The fourth anti-korona package indeed contains some measures that are currently welcome for our economy and for our people, but, as with previous anti-korona packages, the Government is also today in law, which is of a social and intervention nature, underpins repressive measures with which it gravely and in an unacceptable way interferes with the constitutional rights of our citizens. Once again, I really regret that today, in my opinion, the main issue of our debate and media reporting on this anti-korona package will be this controversial mobile application, rather than all of us working together primarily on the economic and social content that we need at this time; that is what intervention legislation is intended for, not repressive measures. I have said this several times before, and I will say it again, the epidemic is not and there must be no reason for any way of excessive interference with human rights and freedoms. The ordered mandatory use of the tracking app – please, where it leads! In the European Union, we will be the only country to legally order its people to install this mobile application. Slovenia will be once again in a unique way, in a negative sense. In my opinion, it is important to make it clear to the public that the application will not be anonymous, that the application is not actually intended to inform people about each other, but rather to do something else first. What will be the dangers and opportunities for abuse and invasion of privacy and what this application really permits, my colleague will later say, and before that, she will add the following. Dear citizens who accompany us, the country can obtain your personal data and information on your location only and exclusively on the basis of a court order if and when the conditions laid down are necessary for this purpose. These are the penal guards that you have today, respected citizens, and who are still protecting you today from the arbitrary and repressive action of the country in front of you. From now on, I think these guards will be pimped, because the country will be able to abuse the application and obtain all this information through this mobile tracking application, so past court rulings, past the courts. I repeat that all these criminal guards are today contained in criminal law, such as criminal proceedings, where such same information as this mobile application is also intended to provide is obtained, as it were, from the most serious criminal suspects on the basis of a judicial decision. I hope that those citizens who accompany us today, or who will accompany at least the daily media reports, are aware of all that I have just talked about, the matter is not as innocent as it wishes or as it represents the Government and, together with it, the coalition Members, because if it were, then not one and not the other, they would not always be talking only about this voluntary use of the mobile application, but they would also mention this controversial second paragraph of Article 29 of this Law, which speaks of the mandatory use of the mobile application, with a calm conscience and with a raised head. Why don't they want to talk about it? I don't think that requires a specific explanation, but an answer is offered on its own. Ignoranca warned the information agents, ignoring the views adopted by the European Commission, which emphasises that the legitimate legal regulation of such applications necessarily requires voluntary application of this application, and that such ignorance comes only to this Government, which we have today under the leadership of the SDS party and such ignorance indicates some action first of this party, which I have mentioned slowly but also consistently summarise coalition SMC, NSI and Desus. Now that I will not be a proposal, as a lawyer and as a citizen, because of these inadmissible interventions into the constitutionally guaranteed rights which this law allows and which our legislative and legal service also points out, we have been able to hear on the committee very clearly, very supported and professionally why, in most parts of the law, it is against such regulation because of all this law, of course, I will not be able to support and strongly oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word is from colleague Lydia Dijak Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary, Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! Today we're going to be discussing what we've been talking about for the last time, I think we've been talking for over 8 hours on the committee. And instead of looking to the future, we are working and correcting your mistakes again, Your Honorable Government. Why? Because you simply do not want to see, and even less to hear what we are proposing in good faith in the opposition since the first so-called anti-Korona law. Even in this PKP4 you have overlooked a number of social groups, you have heard requests for help, for example, once again cultural people, self-employed people, event organizers, fair organizers, congress organizers, so-called meeting industry, you have completely overrun them. And even though they haven't had any income since February, they're obviously not going to have it by the end of the year, and that's unacceptable to me that you don't hear it. When we table an amendment, you just hit it. That, Mr. Secretary, is irresponsible, over, amen, pika. About employees under copyright contracts, about young job seekers I won't even open. You didn't even mention the warnings of the profession. The coalition is just a voting machine that overpowers everything that comes from the other side. Although we have been in times of crisis and although we have never been in such critical times, but of course the government of Janez Janš is not interested, he is interested in control. This, Mr Minister, is not what mature politics does, and not at all, you young, mature politicians, as I perceive you. In crisis situations, responsible policies strive to create stability so that society can develop so that people are not afraid to spend their hope of creating a family. That is exactly what I would expect of you as a Christian Democrat. You introduce additional uncertainty and mistrust with your constant desire for control. I suppose you have a little less than the Prime Minister, and he definitely has one. This one obviously moves you to enforce repressive measures into the laws you're preparing. You have not missed any opportunities from the PKP-1 to this day, nor in any law have you, in order to say domestically undermine something that will remain permanent for people in Slovenia. And that's sad. Now with this other attempt you're trying to force this tracking app on us. None of the professions, nor the information officer, nor the Ombudsman, nor the parliamentary legislative and legal service on 24 pages with warnings, are of any interest to you. You're interested in following people. You'll be under the guise of the so-called. Are you worried about health again trampling on the constitution? Yes, of course you will, and with ease, which is actually terrifying. I don't really understand why you're getting these repressive decisions into a law that saves those in quarantine and waiting for work. People don't understand that either, and you know why not? Because by now, I've got a hundred e-mails again when people warn me not to support it. I'm guessing it's not just me, it's someone else. So slowly and patiently, a respected government, you introduce selective prohibitions, restrictive measures, you gradually tighten them and extend control. And that's what you do. At home, you're slowly introducing our dictatorship. You're beating the Constitution, at least three articles of the Constitution you're beating with this bill, three in the 21st century. This is totally unacceptable to me. Unfortunately, three coalition partners – DeSUS and SMC and, of course, NSI – are following this one person's one ideology, which is even more sad, because one would expect you to have at least one backbone and those, but really basic things, to say to one man's ideology "a boy, stop, and now it's over." No, don't do that either. I mean, I really don't get it. Is that what you want for your children? I don't, I don't want it for myself. So the police can look at people's medical records? You're kidding. You're serious and you're serious. So today you can make the only smart move you can make — that is to reject this law and immediately tomorrow the government will submit the same without a disputed application, and we will all support it, because we are all for people to get compensation for waiting for work and everything else that is good in this law. But no, because one man with one ideology brings into marriage something he wants, and everyone else follows him, of course you will follow it. By the way, this law also provides that the government will determine for itself whether or not the reasons for this measure have ceased, which means that this measure can remain permanent. You can now explain to us here, another five hundred times, how this app will be voluntary and all those pumpkins you've been selling for a week, but my dears, you're also writing that the government will decide for itself without a national council. I'm slowly wondering why we have any branches of authority here in this country, but obviously the government can do everything on its own. We were in the time of the biggest crisis, and those quarantines were here every day, at least I was, I guess you stayed. This national council is functioning normally. We have even accepted the fact that we can vote remotely. So why should the government decide something that is not actually within its jurisdiction? I don't understand. And now you can start explaining to me again some of these pumpkins that you're explaining. My dears, the only smart and good thing you can do here today is to reject the dictatorship. You can do this today. And when you do, you will regain my credibility or that I may even ever respect you. Because what you're doing right now is simply introducing a dictatorship and I don't agree with it, not for myself or my children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u25	Thank you very much. My colleague Primož Siter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the President, representatives of the government, welcome. We're in a very interesting time. The company is facing one of the biggest crises. I'm 40 years old, I don't remember when so many alarms, health crises, so many social crises, in the economic field -- we're going to go. But about the app later. At this point in Slovenia, regardless of what the government says about the success of its actions, we face the highest mortality among the elderly in the homes for the elderly. We face, according to the criteria of the European Commission or their surveys, the fact that, I quote, the results of the survey, "sustainably lost the job or were cancelled by the employment contract in Slovenia 36.8% of the respondents". There are more in Greece alone, and we know the situation in Greece. And these are the people who had jobs. Then there are those who couldn't actually lose their jobs – self-employed and students, pensioners, self-employed tenants, elderly people, in short, a bunch of groups of people who are most affected by this crisis. The problems had to be solved yesterday, and we now have a fourth episode of one very badly written series that “repairs” the health and social and economic picture, but in a way that avoids health, social and economic images at all in the start. It introduces on one side an application that will monitor instead of testing medicines. On this application, I remember a colleague who is studying in Russia and reporting how Putin introduced his app first voluntarily, and then how to get these directories, if you cross those 100 meters as far as you're allowed to do this first store and you visit the police very quickly with a health inspector. This is Putin's Russia, which is obviously wanted by the government of Janez Janša in Slovenia. And then again the government forgets, as it is said, the weakest – the students of the tenants and so on, the pensioners, the elderly, the families – and saves the economy, of course, in the notes it saves the economy in a way that essentially forgets the key element of the economy - and these are the workers. This law, the fourth in the series of anti-Korona laws, is weak, is worth considering and is not as the Minister said in his opening presentation, is not responding to the real needs of the population at this time in Slovenia. This is not a personal matrix of political opposition that is witnessed by the multitudes of comments, the emails that we receive in our ambassadors and Members, the amendments that we table under all four laws, calls from the civil public, such or other organizations, housing associations and so on, and which, in the final phase, is also pointed out in its fourth episode of the Legislative and Legal Service, which has now found that only one article breaks spears at three constitutional points. The legal and legal service says that this law breaks down the legal order, that it is not synchronized with other legal acts and that it is, as it is said, constitutionally controversial. Bottom line, ergo marriage is bad. He's worth, as it were, one thought. Conclusion number two, writers apparently — and here, clear criticism of the architects of this law — do not have contact with real life. The way the crisis translates into the lives of ordinary people, workers who are still placed in factories, shopkeepers who are still trapped in stores, self-employed who have lost everything, the elderly who are put in homes and so on. The government does not answer these questions; the second wave goes so unprepared, without key solutions, and again people will be turned on by people who will be left to mercy or to the present will or problem of the political structure of John Janša. That's the general critique. But not to be a mere and flat-rate critic, I will illustrate the futility of one of the government measures in a very specific case, as far as possible, in the case of all of us, self-employed or employees in the public sector, in the private sector, or political officials, self-employed in culture, single parents, renters, as far as I can go. Everyone or at least most of us have children. What to do if our child is given a quarantine, how to solve this problem if this child is preschooled or schooled. As a recent case, if you recall, one teacher was positive and ordered quarantine for the entire class. What do you do? In this case, parents are not entitled to any actual compensation, and nothing is left to some irregular limbo when they may or may not be entitled to compensation due to a higher force under the U.S.R., and in this case they lose 50%. Now you imagine a single mother who works in, say, some German food trade, which we know is in violation of the labour legislation at all levels and is "catching curves" as far as possible. What's she gonna do? He can't work from home, obviously how he arranges for a vacation, is one way or another in such large collectives the question whether he can or not, depends on 100 people whether she works there or not. She may still have 50% of the compensation, which she cannot afford, because she is already working on the minimum. What does she have left? Or that cancellation, which she won't do if her child is quarantined. She'll go on vacation if she gets it, the hospital doesn't belong to her in this case because the baby's not sick. Maybe the only option she has left is to call her parents to babysit a child in quarantine, old parents who are already at risk. What's a worker like that gonna do? Nothing, she'll probably go back to work because she can't afford it, but the older ones will take care of the child at risk, maybe she's infected herself. In short, some kind of complex limbo of inadequacy, an example that indicates that simply these anti-chronic laws are not in contact with reality. That is why, not only will I be critical, but also proactive, in the Group of the Left, we have proposed an amendment that you have on the list of amendments under article 15, which states that the parent of a child who is quarantined, if that is a pre-school or school-bound child, belongs to compensation. If you want to save the economy if you want to preserve a healthy social picture, you will actually have to do something for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u27	Thank you very much. My colleague Robert Polnar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u28	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The intervention measures to prepare for the second wave of the epidemic raise questions or questions about the expected impact of the epidemic on the social and economic situation in society. For the time being, it is difficult to make reasoned statements because we do not know how long the epidemic will last, how many countries will be affected, how many people will die and what will happen to the social fabric of our society. We don't know anything about that. Most of what we are convinced of today can turn out to be wrong tomorrow. To what extent are we right or will we be right, it depends much more on happiness than on experience and knowledge. It's not just about health, it's not just about an epidemic. Everyone admits that the epidemic is not just a matter of health and statistics of the infected, the dead, the cured, it is not just graphs that vividly show that the epidemic will leave deep traces and that it appears to last for a long time. Good state policy in times of emergency is a policy of action, relying on its power and independence from the goodness of foreigners. When we talk about the country's action to combat the epidemic, we need to look at what has already been done and directly or indirectly relates to the legislative proposal that we are considering today. Five areas of importance that are worth mentioning are shown or shown to me. In particular, the salaries of workers on temporary leave at work amounted to €185 million in the last four months. The exemption for all social security contributions to employees on temporary waiting for work amounts to EUR 126 million. The exemption from pension and disability benefits for workers working during the epidemic has so far cost EUR 434 million. The basic income of self-employed and other beneficiaries was realised at EUR 85 million. Social contributions from self-employed and other beneficiaries of €48 million. If only these five, I think, are the most important items, we get the value of €878 million in the expenditure structure. And I'm stressing the biggest one I've just mentioned. It is €434 million in exemption from pension and disability contributions for those workers who are working today. Let us try to compare this value with, for example, the value of state expenditure for the police in 2019. We're talking about 434 million in four months, and we're talking about 378 million in a year. This is said to have invested 56 million more than last year's total police funding year in the recovery of the labour market situation within four months. Since this is very true, it is important to emphasise, in particular, those beeheads who, after a long time, explain that the Government in this country wants to introduce a police state. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also looked at the summary of all important expenditure items relating to the country's investments in the recovery of the anti-Korona crisis. By drawing together all payments from the state budget during this time period, they amount to €463 million. And taking into account all the measures that are at the expense of budget revenues, this totals EUR 781 million. The sum of these two total items, which represents a direct negative impact on the budget of the country of Slovenia, is less than EUR 1,244 million in less than four months. A simple billion and EUR 244 million. The one who says it's just an innocent joke, he's just a fantasy, and he doesn't really know what he's talking about. Colleagues and colleagues, this epidemic is not just a medical problem. It's a social illness. Symptoms also reveal the disease of society. It ultimately requires a change in the way it works, a change in mechanisms that ensure social cohesion and integration. It requires serious organisational changes and decisions on social priorities. Is it not a sick world and Slovenia in this world where frightening data on the rise in the number of patients and deaths, despite a loud cry, appear individuals who hypocritically invoke human rights. People who, in government measures such as restrictions on movement, see the prohibition of various activities as nothing but an introduction to dictatorship. In parliamentary systems, of course, it is necessary to insist on the temporaryity of these measures and we have also experienced them, and therefore there are parliaments, but to question them or even call them to disobedience with regard to the recommendations on the control of the epidemic. It's nothing but sick. As far as fundamental human rights are concerned, human right to life is fundamental. If the right to life is threatened, then all other rights are virtually negligible. Why? The dead man's human rights are of no interest. Colleagues and colleagues or a sick world in which rich and developed countries, including Slovenia, are among them, in most cases unable or still unable to carry out the right treatments because of lack of medical equipment and hospital facilities. All of this is due to the mindless conversion of health care from nonprofit activity to an activity designed to create profits. Only then could it have happened that the necessary equipment was not procured and stored in time because it was not needed to such a large extent and the purchase of the necessary quantities would constitute unnecessary costs. Today, countries are trying to prevent the spread of the virus locally. In doing so, it cannot be overlooked that action remains essential locally, although the epidemic is transversal. And here we face one of the key contradictions of the modern world. The economy, including the processes of mass production of industrial objects, belongs to the world market. On the other hand, the political authority remains exclusively national. The epidemic is a situation in which economic and policy contradictions have become evident, even the European Union countries have not been able to harmonise their anti-virus strategies in a timely manner. There is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that after the crisis we will be a different society. Probably none of us want a fearsome and untrustworthy society. There are reasons for pessimism and skepticism, but modern Slovenian society still has a great potential for innovation, science is intertwined with interest in new discoveries, has production and has an involvement in the global supply and demand network. Although the expected barriers to trade and capital flows and work need not be overestimated. If our short-term interests and profits are threatened we will quickly forget about past lessons, it will be enough years without further major shocks, and the world will return with it to those forms of globalisation with which we lived before the crown and that is now in play. We need to start establishing and creating a society of trust and social consideration. Is that too much hope? This, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, is something the virus has no power over. That's what's up with us and no one else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Thank you all for the support expressed or not for the support of the law in the positions of the parliamentary groups, thank you to all the debaters so far. Regardless of whether you support or do not support the law, it is difficult to understand, irrespective of what the social partners are doing, I am grateful that your comments also help to make our proposals more refined, more elaborate and more targeted. And I mean it honestly. Somehow I'd comment on some of the readings. I am sorry that there have also been some untruths in some of the discussions that have been said. It's easy to break and oppose, but it's harder to offer solutions. It is more difficult to sit down with all stakeholders and sit for hours and hours, listen to them, negotiate and form compromise solutions for the benefit of the whole society, as my predecessor has just said, the situation is new, the situation is unknown. Of course, we already have some experience from the first wave, but experience of what this will mean for our society, for our economy, for our labour market, we do not yet have and does not have Europe and it does not have the world. We do what we have to do and try to respond as quickly as possible. Some debaters, who were the most critical and opposed to the solutions proposed, did not offer either. We wouldn't have protective measures, we wouldn't have preventive measures, we wouldn't have an app, we wouldn't have a lockdown, but they didn't say what. On the other hand, there is irresponsibility, and I say that we are still aware of our responsibilities, which is why we propose these measures, the responsibility to protect people's health and lives. Every citizen has the right not to be infected with this virus if possible. That he's not infected with this virus if possible. The stakeholders with whom we have coordinated and prepared and/or coordinated solutions, solutions, proposals for solutions, know that my leadership and my team at the Ministry of Labour and Head of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are mine, cooperation, support for the population and the economy, the labour market, protection of dignity, assistance. I can tell you that in discussions with many stakeholders, employers, trade unions, vulnerable groups, representatives of social protection institutions, with people across the country, I hear strong support for all the government measures that have been taken so far. Strong support. Let us all go to Vipavo together now, and ask them there, the citizens of Vipave, relatives of the residents of the elderly, whether they will give themselves this app. I assure you that most, a large majority will say immediately, and I believe that in an environment where homes are for the elderly and where older people live, all their relatives, friends, acquaintances, those they love will first load this app and use it voluntarily and after their decision. I'm gonna load it right now, too, and I'm gonna use it. And the Government of the Republic of Slovenia invites us to show again and know this, citizens, Slovenians, to show that we are going together, to show responsibility to ourselves and to others and to protect those among us most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Ministry of Health. Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u32	Thank you very much. In fact, there are two areas in the fourth anti-Korona package of measures that are closely affected by health care. One is quarantined and the other is mobile app. If we have learned anything from the disease COVID-19 we have learned solidarity, the importance of community, agility, response. At the same time, COVID-19 reminded us of the nature of infectious diseases that we have already forgotten in Europe. In such infectious diseases as COVID-19 are indeed crucial for the rapid detection of cases, isolation, contact search and quarantine. Of course, along with other measures, with physical distance, hygiene, in particular washing hands and disinfection and wearing masks in closed spaces. This is all the basis for controlling the spread of the virus in the population and also for preventing longer epidemiological transmission chains. It's in an infectious disease like COVID-19, it's crucial. In recent weeks since 1 June, we have actually identified the following epidemiological picture. I'll tell you in case numbers after weeks. If we look at the case, this is 4, 4, 13, 25, 25. If I look at cases related to these cases, 4, 5, 10, 18, 12. Local sources, this is called community infection spread: 1, 0, 0, 18, 73. If we look at unknown sources of infection, that's where the tested person didn't tell us where he got the infection, either that he did it on purpose, or that he didn't really remember: 3, 2, 3, 22. The number of these unknown sources is increasing. Epidemiologists, and probably all of us here today, would probably like to identify the sources of infection, the so-called clusters. And this is not to determine whether they are guilty of transferring the infection to others, but to actually identify the infection as soon as possible, to offer treatment if necessary and to infect it. And that's the purpose of quarantine. And, of course, this would also allow us a mobile application. However, I agree with the debaters that caution is very necessary, that clear kneeling is always in detail, so we must be careful and precise as someone has already mentioned today. At the Ministry of Health, we advocate both a quarantine and a mobile application, and we must take into account and weigh the welfare and rights of the community, including to the health and right of the individual, both to health and to privacy. The measures must be indeed justified or have an impact on the spread of the virus and consequently on human health; they must be justified, proportionate but must at the same time prevent the spread of the virus in the population. Therefore, contact with whom we are and are quarantined as a result of this risky contact must be served quickly and with an explanation. If I may go a little bit further into the quarantine area, how the quarantines are being served today after the so-called ZUP, the Administrative Procedure Act, i.e. the classic route. Currently, quarantine decisions are being served mainly for individuals identified as being epidemiologically problematic by suspicions of contact with an infected person. The second set of quarantine decisions, for example, is directly hot to individuals at border points and also at Jožet Pučnik Airport. In the future, we would also like to achieve rationalisation in the service of the decisions described in paragraph 1, namely this Article 25, which also provides for electronic service. This would allow for a much faster and more agile service of decisions. Then, if you look at the mobile application, here I would remind you that the results of all the research on COVID indicate that most of the transmissions of SARS CORONA virus 2 infection occur during the initial period of the disease or a few days before symptoms and symptoms occur in these cases. What does that mean? This means that we actually spread the virus unconsciously around us regularly. And a mobile application would allow me to warn these people, who we accidentally handed over the virus to, be careful, please contact your doctor, contact an epidemiologist, and in this way they would be better warned. In short, it's one such help. However, I agree with everything that has been said that the application must be voluntary, open-source. Open-source, those who are more subdued in IT know that this is why it is a fully transparent mobile application that can be checked by anyone who has the knowledge of IT and uses it in most European countries. You need to know that we are in Europe so far only three countries that do not have these applications. One is Belgium, where they use French and German, one is Sweden, where they opted for a lower population and because of a different approach and smaller migration flows so as not to invest in its development n Slovenia as last. It is good to be last in times, but we are now again in this period when the number of infections is increasing and, as I have already pointed out, the number of unknown infections is increasing. And here, a mobile app would help solve this. They would choose an application based on a model of foreign applications. It is therefore a matter of adapting the application which is in accordance with European legislation. There's a lot of guards why it can't actually be mandatory. Such a mobile application then also allows us to quickly detect contacts that we forget in times when an epidemiologist asks us and is, of course, just a tool and a tool for the work of epidemiologists. And indeed, the mobile app itself will not prevent the presence of the virus, at least it will alert us to its presence so that its spread can be better confused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u33	Thank you very much. A replica? Comrade Wildyak Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to replicate to the distinguished Minister, in the part where he said that at the nursing home they were looking forward to setting up this app. Mr. Minister, I know or I believe that you, deep down and now deeply know that this is a dictatorship, but you're defending this government because you're defending it because you're a minister, which I understand. But that the pensioners in the nursing home will immediately load this app, and these are the pumpkins you're selling to us here today. I put my hand in the fire now that half of them don't even have smart phones, and even less can load this app, and let's just leave it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u35	Comrade Wildyak Mirnik, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u36	Yeah, he's got a replica. I'm replicating. I would like you to answer a question that the Ombudsman has already asked you, who and why is he collecting data? How will this information be processed, and by what time will it be collected? Even because the law says that the government can extend these measures as it pleases, because obviously we do not have a National Assembly that works? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u37	Comrade Wildling Mirni, that wasn't a replica. I will read to you the article: “Every debater has the right to reply to the debate of another debater as far as this debate relates to his debate if he considers that his debate was misunderstood or interpreted.” So please, let's stick to this rule. However, I can tell you or I can tell you that after the expiry of this list, we will be able to relive the list because I have already received initiatives to have Members and Members apply for a debate on this amendment. There's a colleague of mine who's got the word. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, good-bye! I have to say that when you actually start, you look at this law, I'm going to say the content, I'm going to follow the preparations for a possible second wave of covido-19 infections. But it seems to me that we are increasingly correcting the three previous anti-Korona laws, which are following the amendments of the opposition that we have tabled and, unfortunately, have not been adopted. If we listened to the opposition at that time, we would really have a bill on the table today that would follow a possible second wave of infections just outside the door. It is true that there are good solutions to this PKP-4, but I must nevertheless touch on the fact that job conservation measures are too short. That extension in a month, up to 30. 9. 2020 will have a very negative impact on employers, as well as on workers, because they will not know what will happen next month, what will happen. We see that the economy is not on its feet, and I seriously doubt that it will be up to 30. 9. 2020, as the minister said in the introduction, is an economy within the same framework as it was before the epidemic. Before the epidemic, the number of unemployed was 74,000. At the time of the epidemic, there was an increase of 16,000. Indeed, with all these measures, PKP-1, PKP-2, PKP-3, we have seized, they have been good measures, there is no challenge, certain jobs have been retained, but a measure of waiting for work up to 30. 9. 2020 will be problematic; remember that we will sit and talk about it. Personally, I think that the country should finance part-time – why? – because abroad has this reduced working time, and perhaps this would be a measure to preserve jobs. I must also point out that while tourism is on its feet, hospitality, I must say, it has been quite well placed, but once again we are in those constraints, there will be no cultural events, and there is a question about economic sectors such as transport, such as the car industry, which is very in decline, there are simply no orders for vehicles. I really wish that the job waiting measure would be extended by our proposed amendment by the end of the year, and then we will see what will happen to this so-called second wave. Because the re-infections we have show that this epidemic will not only last this year, but probably for some time. I don't want to scare anyone, but it's gonna take us a long time to get back to normal or at least to get back to normal. Only long-term solutions will help the economy and job conservation. As I said, I think the PKP-4 is really going in the right direction, but – we are speaking but – I don't know why we have the intruder again in this law, these are the articles on mobile application. How can we build trust – colleague Polnar said today that we must restore trust – how? People warn us, citizens and citizens warn us, reject these articles. We have received more than 80 e-mails today in this short time to prevent mobile apps from being set up. It is true, as the Secretary of State has mentioned, that we may indeed be just three countries that do not yet have this application in place. But Germany has it, 14.4 million inhabitants of Germany have loaded this app, only 300 people have entered the infection. What does that mean? Is it effective? Yes, what I also wanted to continue with, the colleague pointed out, yes, Norway, which she did have, but found that she was not effective and had already stopped her. So I'm really wondering why we're making out with, I'm going to say in a pretty good law-abiding mobile app. It is possible that the opposition would not support this law or that there were other interests. There's something else I need to touch. In the beginning, the minister said that all ministries were involved in the law. Is that right? It does not bawl because the Ministry of Public Administration did not participate in the preparation of applications or articles on mobile application, but said so on the Committee on Social Affairs. So this is really the question, because the Ministry of Public Administration will then take the matter forward. Really, I'm really afraid of what's gonna happen. First of all, everyone doesn't have cell phones, some people don't even know how to use them anyway, especially those older ones. If I just remember my own, I'll say a key, he couldn't even use a regular phone, call anyway, God forbid any use of an app, he couldn't even charge his phone. So it's a story never ending story, at least for those older 70 plus. So that someone doesn't get me wrong, and some people know that, and they know that. They know that there are so many, and these things also control because they have learned so much and have an interest, but most of them are older people who can't use it. And what will we accomplish? We will have a small number of users, and there will also be unreliable technical activity. This tracking system will bring confusion, panic, fear and more between citizens and citizens. We will indeed agree to the unconscious and unwanted supervision of us citizens and citizens by the government. The Bar in all these materials also stated that it is a grave breach of human rights, but it is also a matter of democracy and the rule of law. I wonder where all this is going. And yes, we should create trust. In what way should we create trust if in fact there are so many, so many comments, problems, mistrust in this system. And yes, in the end, I just want to touch this spread of the current virus. People came from abroad - I'll say, I don't know how they didn't get quarantine decisions - and they're happily spreading the virus forward. Because 14 days who's been home without a quarantine decision, believe me, it's not cool. [[Incomprehensible]] Trust me, it's not cool. And yes, these people are walking cheerfully around, I'm going to say parties, in guesthouses, and spread this virus. And that's the problem, and that's the problem. Who's controlling them? How do they control them? However, not those who arrive or arrive in any way in the Republic of Slovenia from third countries are not immediately granted a quarantine decision, but a quarantine at home, I will say this is very, very questionable. If you lock me up in something like we had before at the time of the epidemic, when they were locked up in, I'll say, under the noose, in Paco, Velenje, where they could only be there, then it's something else. But when someone tells you to be home, believe me, I don't believe anyone really strictly, strictly insists on doing it. And based on that, viruses spread. I know it's spreading because I'm coming from the end where it just happened. And that pisses me off. But this app won't solve it. If I'm gonna be in touch with someone, and I'm gonna load up my app, and she's gonna start beeping at me, and I don't know how this is gonna go down, I'm gonna be confused. I'll be confused. I'm gonna be real, and I'm gonna ask you what this is. Thank you, Mrs. Eva, not for the first time. It's someone. I don't think that's good. That's really not good. God does not allow the fact that someone is infected in a multi-housing building to happen. What's going to happen to these guys? In a multi-housing building, then anyone who has this app will have something going on. It doesn't mean anything to me either. Keep track of your medical condition. I can follow him, but I'll be happy to hang out and walk around, but I didn't do anything about it. I just need to get so much information that I've been in touch with anyone else if I don't want to and if I want to be responsible for everyone. Why am I talking like that? I acted responsibly when we were in this situation, but I wasn't in touch and we didn't know what was going on. Well, believe me, it was extremely difficult being home behind closed doors for fourteen days. And you have to get out of here, and you have to go get some bread. It's hard. It's really hard. So it would be a lot easier if when someone comes, because now I'm talking about abroad, because now the foreign is under attack, somewhere this quarantine will be established where these people will go, so they won't spread this virus. I may be a little down now, but still. Also transit, we have transit, which is supposed to take place in 12 hours. I think the transit is meant for someone to leave Slovenia as soon as possible. Seems like a very long time to me personally for 12 hours. Someone who comes and goes across Slovenia and has to get to Austria as soon as possible, if he comes from Bosnia, he has to leave as soon as possible. He's got nowhere to stop. He has to go to the border and leave Slovenia as soon as possible. Not yet, however, that basic urgent need will have to be made, and then it will stop at the gas station and meet the urgent need. But 12 hours, men of God. You know what time it is. What can people do in 12 hours? I have been thinking for myself when this article read what could have happened, because there may also be traffic accidents, but since then the police can connect and know where the accident was, why someone couldn't leave in 12 hours, but in 12 hours if someone comes in and he thinks it would be nice for Ljubljana to take a look or maybe go into the Postojna Cave and stay a little longer in Postojna Cave. Look, there's plenty of time. Except it's gonna say, I don't know, it's really here to ask how it's gonna work. Personally for me, this article would have been enough in six hours. And just in the end, in connection with these vouchers. This seems to me extremely good that the vouchers can also be used in those who offer seasonal services. But we're back at the butt. During vacations, people turn to us, all the capacities are already filled. They get their appointments there in October, November maybe December. Therefore, I think it would be good if the exploitation of these vouchers, these vouchers, could be extended even during winter vacations, provided that the facilities allow it then or release matters, because then they would also encourage winter tourism, not just summer tourism. During this time of Covida, in the first phase, winter tourism also had problems in the first wave of Covida. And it's a big problem. It's all stopped since March. And some of them wanted it back then. So it is here that the Social Democrats have proposed an amendment in order to extend it to 28. 2. 2021, the use of these sheepdogs would be more widely dispersed, and I think that many citizens would also support this. Otherwise, I must say that I would support this PKP4, but once again: Why an intruder in the law itself? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, the situation is worse than anticipated and expected. We're all aware of that. And that's why the government has really prepared a fourth package, an anti-korona package that's supposed to help and protect people and lives, to protect jobs, the social security of every individual. I think that this is a responsible government, responsible government, which does not care about citizens and tries, to the best of its ability to overcome them financially, in a health sense, to help people, in a social sense, to make this epidemic as much as possible, this crisis touches them. I welcome the fact that, after today's adoption of the law, the Government will be able to replace 80% for quarantine, I welcome. I welcome the fact that the Economic and Social Council has also joined and has therefore agreed on the agreed amount of compensation. Finally, I welcome what I am listening to now is also an application from two of my fellow Members, because I think I, as a risk group, have human rights in this country. I wish I had that right, too. You all talk here, it's a dictatorship if it wasn't for me. I am among the people at risk in this country as a patient, and I want to be able to know who around me does not adhere to the quarantine, the decision and the violation, and at the same time indirectly or indirectly, I have this right in this country, and I tell you something else, dear fellow Members, I also have this right in the National Assembly, so I hope that you will all have this application, because someone who will not respect who will come infected in the National Assembly will threaten me and threaten my human freedom and that I have been elected to this National Assembly. These aren't things that you would just sweep under the carpet and yell at someone, look, I think it's my human right to be protected from infection. A lot of people, I have to say, use Google, use different Facebooks, different Mercator dots and so on cards. Those who worked in the economy or in marketing know what that means, let me put it to the case. Three weeks ago we were canceled by the freezer box, we were on that day, it was Saturday, looking for Google in Slovenia where we can replace it immediately. Let me tell you, three weeks after this event, Google still offers me boxes when I sign in. What I'm saying is, after all, even if you have an online bank, if you have, I don't know, Facebook is our location all over the place, and everyone knows where we are. So that I can really only see positive in these apps, I see that I will be able to detect this mobile app if someone near me is in the shop, on the street, in the post office, in the health center, in the hospital, maybe someone near me with an infection. And in that case, I'll really feel safe. In this case, I'll feel safe. I must say that I welcome the measure taken by a wider range of beneficiaries for the collection of vouchers. It seems fair to me that all those who may have been able to establish a camp or any other accommodation after 13 March have the opportunity to offer it to all citizens and citizens. Because they probably did not start working at the time, but certain construction and consensus may have already been acquired in the previous year and may have also opened up their capacities in a timely manner due to the crown of time. I also very much welcome the use of food vouchers for students. That's until the end of July. Maybe I'd like it myself by mid-August, but let's let things turn around, though. It was said that so many words were spoken as students, but to read, on July 7 the good news for students, the student organisation ŠOS: Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted an amendment yesterday on the proposal of the SOS, which extended the use of subsidised student diet until the end of July. That's right. We have come to the attention of all those students who, due to the crown of time, are now in certain compulsory practices that they were unable to implement at the time of the Crown. I think the government understands and has done well with the Student Organization. If you cared so much about the students, I can't go through with this, then when we proposed in Novi Slovenije, we would adopt our proposal for a law to exempt students and students from the bill of family benefits and staff scholarships. If you cared so much about the students, then you'd be here for the students. If it were so important for the students, then I don't know how many times the proposed general tax relief would be for 7 thousand, not for 3 thousand 500, which was done a few months ago if it were so important for the students. I welcome that these vouchers can also be used in July, and I hope that this will, at least not least, ease these mandatory practices, which students still have to carry out, and I hope that they will successfully complete both compulsory practice and study year. Of course, I want further cooperation with the student organisation as well, which we must say in Novi Slovenija, with a student organisation, we have very similar views on student life, on student things, because we in Novi Slovenija have a strong young youth, and I think we are very cooperative with them. Which, of course, is what I think is very important and, of course, I also expect the support of my colleagues from the Left. The fourth measure concerns the financing of additional staff in social security institutions in the public network over the next two years. A budget of €31 million will be allocated for this purpose. The first guard of the Coronavirus showed that human resources reinforcements at the home of the elderly and other welfare institutions were necessary, as they were severely undernourished, alerted to by representatives of the social welfare institutions years before the development of the Coronavirus. However, the former governments did not have a hearing for this. This is why it is now high time for older people's homes to be provided with the necessary human resources support, making it easier for them to cope with the present difficult health situation. This also brings this package, helping all social security institutions in the public network for the next two years with an additional 31 million. You know what kind of money, you know how the necessary funds come into these public institutions of social security. That is why I am thinking and counting, of course, on the support of my opposition colleagues, especially from the Left because I think this is what we all stand for together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go. On the contrary, I apologize, Mr Member, and before that, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Public Administration has spoken. He's sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The MJU opinion is that a mobile app to record contacts and alerts can help reduce the number of infected people, of course with its use. You have repeatedly provided information that we also know that this application should be used by at least 60% of the population. Recent studies show that by using 10, more than 10% of the population already see positive effects, it is said that the number of infected is also decreasing as a result. Now, at M.I.U., you often wonder what we're doing on M.I.U. in this direction. In fact, we're reviewing two types of apps. Some are voluntary, open-source applications based on Google and Apple exposure notification framework and others are applications such as France or Poland. Now, with regard to open source applications, for example, German, you may have noticed in the media that the development of this application cost EUR 20 million. It was developed by SAP and Deutsche Telekom, and this application is now open-source and we can take it and implement it. In case this happens, we will also put this app back, return as an open source so that anyone here or any IT expert can take it back, look, comment. So there's no problem here at all. Now, with regard to French and Polish, I must say that these are more closed applications to which we do not have much information yet on how they work exactly. For example, French works, what we know solves the food problem. So if someone is quarantined, they can order food through this app for example. Poland solves the quarantine problem, for example there is no geolocation, but in a period of time the person who is quarantined must receive some SMS, some notification and then has to take pictures and send this picture to check it out. [[Incomprehensible]] Well, these are different types of applications. Now, with the NIJZ and the MZ we are in close contact, we have established a working group with the NIJZ, we also intend to establish a single contact centre that will solve, answer both the questions of technical design of the application, it is said, anything to be installed, on which phone, etc., as well as the NIJZ part that will be this professional part and. [[Incomprehensible]] So when it is, I'll make the law clear in this area, we'll approach the production. It should be noted, however, that we do not even need to have open-label voluntary applications in the essence of this law. We need to, yes, this second part of the law, which if we go into quarantine and mandatory application for the infected and those in quarantine. So much so that the Ministry of Public Administration is doing something right now and where we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Now he's got the word "magic." Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. All in attendance, Your Honor. On June 1st, military aircraft flew over Ljubljana and all over Slovenia and thus announced victory over the virus in the dictatorial regime. This also officially ended the epidemic. Unfortunately, these planes were flying through our country much, much too early, because today we are facing a worse situation with regard to the spread of the virus than we were facing in mid-March, when so-called whole state was shut down. Nevertheless, at the time, the newly enthroned Janša’s government accused the former government of acting irresponsibly and how it too late it closed public life in the country. Today, I hope to say fortunately, there is no such senseless prison, but I think it is necessary to be very careful and careful and to be careful in all possible ways that this virus will not spread, but at the same time it is necessary to protect those most vulnerable groups and the economy that has suffered much, much damage. In this sense, of course, the fourth anti-Korona package is absolutely necessary, even in this economic and social work. Although certain measures could already be taken in previous packages, the Social Democrats and the entire democratic opposition have been alerted by many amendments, but unfortunately everything has been rejected. Nevertheless, we are where we are, ahead of us is the fourth antikoronic package. We have also approached the creation of this package by the Social Democrats in some way with the desire and will to change and correct things. We have proposed a number of amendments, but unfortunately the majority or I say almost all the amendments were rejected on the committee. For example, we proposed extending the subsidisation of waiting for work by the end of the year. We have proposed to extend the use of the vouchers because you believe me, touristic, using the vouchers to winter holidays, it is said that winter tourism could also have some of these vouchers. Believe me, crowds in tourist centers are impossible and from this point of view it would be reasonable to extend the duration of the vouchers to the winter season. I'm afraid we were unheard of. We have proposed extending the basic income for independent entrepreneurs who have suffered more than 30% of the crisis's losses. Nor did the government want to adopt this measure, or the parliamentary majority, the government's parliamentary majority. Thus, the distinguished Minister, who is not currently in the Chamber, had earlier warned that the opposition had no concrete proposals. Of course, that's absolutely not true. Although all these additions to this socio-economic work have not been adopted, we believe that certain measures are good and would be worth taking. But as always in this fourth anti-korona package you have imposed something else, something that is not included in this law – a repressive action of a mobile application that you want to follow to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia on behalf of protection against the virus. That's absolutely unacceptable. You have been warned by the professional public, that is what civil society has warned you about, that is what you have been warned by the Information Commissioner, the Chamber of Counsel, the Institute of Criminology – the measure is unconstitutional, you are interfering with fundamental human rights. But you can't hear. You do not hear and follow the leader John Janša, where we see and hear where he learns what his example is. Perhaps he was once the model of Ceausescu, because the Slovenian Communist Party was too radical and today his role models are Serbian President Vukic, where we see what he is doing with his citizens and citizens, the president and the great role model Viktor Orban, and someone else. And it is clear what is their goal and the goal of our Government – to put in place total supervision of citizens and citizens. And, I'm sorry, in the name of health, we can't let that happen. Mrs Dimic, earlier you mentioned Google, some advertisements and so on, the problem is that in the case of this application this data would be collected by the country, and this is really unacceptable. So here I am once again calling on coalition partners who have fallen on lemons in this story, Awake! You tricked the electorate and the electorate. Look at this picture, the left block for free Slovenia. Desus - Desus committed before the elections that their vote was against Janez Janša, against the right government. It is true that the president is a friend today, but the electorate and the electorate remain the same. Not to mention SMC. I believe that Members and Members may be wise, their leadership, but there seems to be no solution. After all, I won't lose words about it. [[…]] I would really like you to reconsider the application. After all, it can also be created in another way that it is optional. As already suggested by the MJU representative, the German application could also be useful in Slovenia, and you can "load" it and use it today. However, I am afraid that there are additional interests in this regard, as is the case with purchases of protective equipment, masks and fans. The social democrats of this law absolutely, precisely because of this application, will not be supported. I believe that today we will gather together some courage to overcome reason and this application will be removed from the law. In any event, measures remain necessary and would make sense to adopt them, but this application certainly does not belong to an anti-constitutional measure on behalf of strengthening the regime, which is intended only to do so, we cannot support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The replica has Tina Hefferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u46	Thank you. I'll be very short. I'm replicating Mrs Ivy Dimic again, because I ran the session earlier, but it wasn't possible to have an immediate replica. I recognized myself in her debate, in the work she was talking about human rights, in connection with this application. Now I don't know which human rights Mrs Members have, I don't know, demanded from other colleagues in the National Assembly that they impose this application, she said she expected this because I don't know what human rights she has and that she's a risk group. Now, my human right is the right to privacy, the right to protection of personal data, and I am also a risk group, I am an asthmatic of the first category of childhood, and it is my responsibility to self-defense, to decide whether to go to work during the epidemic or during this virus or not, and I will be at home at the hospital or otherwise insured, my health. By now putting the responsibility of all other colleagues on the ground that you will be guilty because you will not have an app if I contact any infected person, which is nicely said, shamelessly and I will certainly not upload this app to my mobile phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Edward Pavlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u48	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. I will also continue to refer to Member Ivo Dimic, who talked about that we all use Facebook, Google and so on and that these applications know all about us. There is one important difference that you load Facebook applications, you agree with loading, you agree with the general conditions. However, in order to load the tracking application we are talking about today, the obligation will be at least for a certain part of the citizens, so to speak, a significant difference. And today, in this debate, I will focus mainly on this segment, which is most eye-to-eye and is also considered by the profession to be the most controversial, this is in this obligation to use a mobile tracking app. Both the European Commission and the European Parliament stress the need for voluntary use of such applications to be legally defined. This is also recalled in its opinion by the Information Commissioner, and this is somehow logical if we know that the right to information privacy and the right to protection of personal data are a constitutional category in which the State may intervene under strictly defined conditions. In our country, however, we are trying to legalise the mandatory use of the application for one part of the citizens. Now, the law is in the work that talks about mobile applications very sceptic and loose. This is a big problem and I'll explain why. In accordance with the Constitution, all laws must be substantively clear and meaningfully clear. Only in this way can we execute them and prevent the will of every single authority. If the law does not fully define the rules of the game in relation to the application, we give the Government the power to determine the rules of the game in its sub-legislative acts, such as rules or regulations. Of course, it is not possible to specify everything in the law, but at least the technical characteristics of the application and the condition of its application are some hygiene minimum that the law should contain. Why did Bianca authorize the government so dangerous? There are two ways the app works. Centralised and decentralised. Although both methods process personal data, the decentralised system is more anonymous if so expressed anywhere in the law does not say how the application will work. The Secretary of State, who had previously commented on the debates of Members and Members, had not identified this. Regardless of how the application works, abuse is always possible. The application may contain malicious or hidden software code which will collect more user information than specified in the regulations past the user’s behaviour. It is important to know that any application can access the owner's privacy and obtain data on the user's geo position, all contacts in the phonebook, on histograms, it is about the Internet browsing history, on the history of text messages sent, on the history of calls and also on the activities of other applications, that is, in the case of the iOS operating system used by Apple phones, it is more difficult to achieve, but in the case of the Android operating system, it is significantly easier. It should also be known that the application can work even if it is not active, it works in the background. And 100% of the trust between the app issuer and the user is required. And given the inadequacy and fragility of this marriage proposal, I do not have that confidence. It should be borne in mind that any intervention in the constitutionally guaranteed human rights requires a proportionality test, which means that the benefit of the measure is weighed on the one hand and the limitation of human rights on the other. Today we are talking about the human right to the protection of personal data and to information privacy, and if, as we say, the rules of the game are not defined in advance, this assessment, the real proportionality test cannot be done and this represents one of the worse violations when it comes to an infringement of constitutionally guaranteed rights. The government did not consult an information officer before the law was introduced, and given his sharp and negative response today, I can also understand why not. Article 30 of the Act refers to the anonymous recording of data on user-to-application contacts and the fact that user identification cannot be made possible. But if the application is anonymous, why does the system require identification? This Article does not even mention the so-called privacy policy, which in these cases must be publicly known and published on the application owner's website. It is not specified which data will be recorded where this data will be stored either in a state cloud or on the phone, who will process this data. Undetermined or two or three-dimensional contact tracking system will be used. Therefore, the provision is unclear and is not precise enough to be incontrovertible, and from this I can only conclude that the applicant does not yet know which direction the application will develop. This has also been confirmed in some way by the Secretary of State. If I touch further the meaning of the criminal provisions. Article 48 of the Law provides for fines for those who do not replace the apps, but should by law. Please explain to me how you will know that the person who should load the app has not loaded you if everything is anonymous. How are you going to give this person a fine if everything's anonymous? You'll obviously know which user is hiding behind a random identification code. The area of electronic communications is governed by the Law on Electronic Communications, so-called ZEKUM, which prescribes precise conditions when and to whom a telecommunications operator may disclose the identity of the contracting authority. And the condition for that is a court order. Since it is not easy to obtain a court order, by this law this provision of ZEKUM is elegantly bypassed, it introduced a so-called random identification code, which in my opinion is intended to identify the user without a court order. In order to be able to also aim to track citizens is to conclude from the following facts. Criminal provisions only provide for a fine in the event that someone does not impose an application, but is not fined when that person does not enter information on whether he is infected or quarantined. There is no prescribed fine in case this person does not include the functionality of the bluetooth, without which the functionality of the notification will not work. If it were really intended to inform citizens, a fine would also be provided for not entering the required data in the application. This could suggest that the purpose of the Government is primarily to load an application and that the application may always contain a hidden code that allows tracking the phone. And now, if I link this finding to the words of the Head of the Government's Advisory Group for the adoption of anti-Korona measures by Dr Matthew Lahovnik, who says that the introduction of the application is necessary because the number of health inspectors who check whether citizens are quarantined is insufficient for the whole country. Does this mean that the application will help inspectors to detect quarantine violations? In view of the fact that the government proposed the possibility of the last location in Article 24, this article was, however, a line on the committee, the thesis that tracking will be done through the application is not so incredible. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration also mentioned earlier that they are thinking about somehow identifying the location of a person holding a quarantine, including through these applications. Now, if I finish slowly. According to scientists, more than 60% of people should load it for the application to be successful. In view of the poorly and loosely prepared bill, given the Government's ignorance of the legal profession's warnings and of the information officer, this is a poor traveller, and I doubt that if the law is confirmed, we will reach this necessary threshold. But once again, the modus operandi of this government appears. For the fourth time in a row, it has added to some good measures disputed provisions which do not fall within the intervention law. Personally, at the expense of some good solutions, I cannot overlook the bad ones.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u49	Thank you very much. That's where we ended the first round. So now that there is still an interest in the debate, I am opening a second round. Please sign in. We have 16 panellists registered. First of all, Mrs Eva Irgl, Mr Marko Bandelli is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. We are now talking about the amendment to Article 7, but given that all the fellow Members of the Parliament – as is the case with little in the practice of this National Assembly – have discussed very widely and in practice all the articles relating to the law that we are considering today, of course, will also have a broader debate on this amendment. Now, first of all, in the position of the Group of Members, I have said that we will be proposing a law on intervention measures to prepare for the second wave of COVID-19, which is part of the so-called ‘e’. Fourth antikron package, supported. In particular, because we are aware that this is a law that is prepared with the aim of limiting as much as possible the consequences that the Coronavirus has on society as possible and that we are mitigating social distress and also detecting and preventing the spread of COVID-19 in a timely manner. Now, the law proposes some very good solutions. On Monday, on the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, we very precisely dissected the article by article and, of course, the debaters could say which articles or amendments they support, which they do not. But what is most important about this package is that the law proposes the following sets of solutions. First, the extension of the waiting-for-work measure. This seems extremely important to me because in the first and, in particular, in the third anti-korona package, we have maintained the employment of workers as a result of this measure and have also prevented redundancies. We know that in such crises that have taken place and have taken over Slovenia, but not only Slovenia, but the whole of Europe and the world, of course, there are things that you cannot predict. And the fact is that there has also been an increase in unemployment because of this, but I think that the government is also doing a good job with these measures. Let me say here that only from waiting for work from the third antikron package the institution has so far received 10,000 907 applications, which means 64 thousand 642 people. Many people have been helped, and especially because of the measures in these three packages, and now with the fourth, one quarter or about one quarter of the jobs have been saved, as they confirmed to me at the Ministry of Labour, even when I asked them this question on Monday. Therefore, the temporary waiting period will be extended so that the employer can send an individual worker to wait for work for a period of up to 31 hours. Seven. 2020, although the Government of the Republic of Slovenia may extend the measure by decision no more than twice for a period of one month. Then here we have the determination and payment of compensation for a certain quarantine. An extremely important measure, an extremely important solution. I regret that the opposition Members oppose such solutions. The fact is, on all of us, when we voted on the law in full on the Labour Committee, they voted against the law. But look, a worker who, say, was quarantined at the border crossing, would be entitled to a 50% salary refund. A worker who has been quarantined for contact with an infected person and whose employer cannot, for example, ensure that he does work at home is entitled to a salary refund of 80%. This means that these measures have taken care of the social protection of employees. The third measure seems to be extremely important, and this is an institutional protection measure for social welfare institutions that the Government has provided an additional EUR 31 million in this law. I have previously pointed out that the institutions or various forms of social protection are particularly homes for pensioners, of course, faced with exceptional human resources distress and also with exceptional spatial distress. And in a situation where we are still in the period when the virus is circulating across Slovenia, of course, it is all the more important to strengthen staff recruitment in the homes for the elderly, and that is what the funds provided by this law are, that is, €31 million. This also means that improving the standard, in this case in the homes for the elderly, will not have any financial impact on the caregivers, says nothing will be added to it, and that will not require an increase in prices in the homes for the elderly. This is very important. These measures are also important because the most vulnerable groups of people in the conflict with COVID-19 are just the elderly and it is right to listen to them in this case. Something has been said before, and I have said it several times myself, given that I am coming from Vipava, I am very thorough and closely following the situation that is taking place in a nursing home in port. I've visited this house a number of times. The situation is not easy, but everything is being done in the direction that Vipava will do its best. I am in daily contact with the mayors, with the local community, with both State Secretarys at the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health, and I must say that communication is going great and that things are being resolved extremely quickly. And that's why I'm proud of this government that really listens to people and does good. You can say what you want, you can say that you say something that is not acceptable within the lock, but the fact is that when you walk among people on the ground, you say well and they are grateful that the government has done its job so well and made sure that the consequences of Covid-19 are as small as possible. Of course, we do have a mobile app here to inform people who are infected and potentially infected. Now I would say here that there is a very gruesome debate on this, but it must be said that in those countries where the application was completely voluntary, there were no results. Why they were not — because most people were not infected or quarantined because of this voluntary application. And then, of course, the results cannot be as expected. And so, of course, if we want the app to be effective, it must be in the segment at least for those who are either quarantined or infected, of course. And this app is intended exclusively to protect human health and allow epidemiologists to carry out their work more quickly and efficiently. And look, there's a lot of talk about human rights. I have been President of the Commission for Human Rights for many years, and I have always warned that they have been violated, and I have always pointed out how important it is that human rights in terms of privacy are of great importance, but it is necessary to know here that this is also a human right to health. So, human rights are also the right to health protection, and because we are in the situation we are in, of course, it is necessary to consider rights. However, I must also say here that this is not an intervention in privacy in this case, but it is an effective protection of public health. I have already said that at this stage, when we are fighting the Covid-19 epidemic somehow, it is irresponsible to oppose mobile applications for such reasons, which are not, after all, justified. Irresponsible to all those who are fighting in the field today to infect Covid-19 as much as possible. I think that we should all have a common goal here, and that is to protect people's health, to do everything we can to prevent the infection from spreading in such a dimension that we might not be able to control it anymore. And the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and especially the competent ministries, both for work and for health, I think they are working really well in this situation. And the opposition should also, if it is constructive, give recognition to these two ministries. This is a hard job, a responsible job, but as far as I'm working with these people, I can say that they're very correct, very expedient, they're fast looking for solutions and they want to help, and that's the key. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The following is Mr Marko Bandelli, prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u52	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Now here we are at this stage to prepare a fourth version of a law or a previous one. We are, of course, correcting errors or correcting things that are useful in order to preserve, above all, the jobs of half the different aspects and these applications and other things that bother me a little bit. Mainly as regards that part of keeping jobs, I welcome here the extension of the work refund measure to those on temporary leave. That's very good, until 31 June. It is also possible to extend to 30. 9. Here I'm going to say something, this is still one solution, one flat-rate solution, mainly for large companies, for a small economy, this matter means absolutely nothing. It doesn't mean anything. Temporary waiting is no solution for small businesses, none of which should be clear once, because a person who has five or six employees can't afford two to wait because he can't, even if his traffic drops by 50% because he needs it there. It can only benefit bigger companies, and I've been saying that for three months now, but you don't listen to me, you don't understand me. The only good measure here for small businesses is to pay taxes and contributions to an entrepreneur, and by the end of the year, this is the only smart thing that could solve matters. But in this case, we're still not saving the economy. We save large companies that have greater opportunities, shorter working hours, shorter working days and everything else. The small economy is not resolved by these measures, not by the first crown, not by the second, not by the third, but by the liquidity law, which has been a total “flop”, because you know that it is not working and not working yet. What I said in the debate at the time for more than half an hour, about this law not to work, and it is also proven today that it is not working now because it is impossible because it is absurd, because those conditions that are written there are written ungulately, only for service activities, not commercial; but let us stand that I will not spend too much time on this. Come on, start thinking about a small economy that you're not yet thinking about. And if there's a second wave, a number of businesses, small businesses will die. Be aware that the small economy employs 70% of the workforce. 70%! And so far, I don't see any smart solutions here. As far as infection, quarantine and marriage are concerned. Of course, I welcome this matter, and it is only right that this is dealt with in this way. That's a good idea for you to imagine that those who go to red areas and have to go to quarantine have no payment; that's a good thing, at least something has to be, if you know what this is all about. Now we're going to this mobile app that's so much talk about. First of all, we need to understand that this mobile app is everything except anonymous because this app is not anonymous. What kind of data we're going to collect here, who guarantees which data we're going to collect, which data we're not going to collect, where we're going to store this data, where we're going to store it, how long. It says in the marriage, yes, then it'll be removed, but here I don't believe anything. What about the misuse of this data? We, the client of the SAB and the other parties, wanted to prevent this shameful intervention into privacy, because it is a shameful intervention, let's be honest. Mobile App informs healthy people about contact with the infected – where is privacy? Minister, are we aware of what we want to do in this House - to point our finger at the person who is infected! As if it's a tragedy, each of us can get infected because it's a virus, because it's nothing like that. And we've been seeing for months that there's no one in the ICU, so there's something going on, better, I don't know, it's a little better situation, not telling me it isn't. Now thank the Government for immediately bugging her in Vipava to thank the Government – what kind of government?Oh, my God! Thank you to the institutions, to the health institutions that went with these people right away, not to the government. What happens to the government, whether the minister was there or who he was, the minister went to look at and measure people's temperature? Come on, please! Of course, take every opportunity to boast in a certain area, but on the other hand, I don't understand you. The application will practically follow you every step of the way. And now you even wanted this to be a mandatory app. What, are we stupid or something?Oh, my God! What are we?Oh, my God! Where do we live?Oh, my God! North Korea? And then this information, who will, who will, who will be guaranteed, where will they go, where these data will be stored, what will be the purpose of storing this data? [[…]] Because you know for yourself that this data will be stored. Who's gonna use this? National security, Mahnič, to give the Fire data, Novi24 or what? I don't know. I'm asking. Whoever's infected knows who the first person is. It's unacceptable for me. Then you read Article 30 here: "but you must not allow the identification of the user, the collection of information about his location and his other personal data". Tell me, how not? How can this be prevented? How can he not collect information about his location if it is intended to indicate where the location is and where the person is. How? Won't the user's identification be known? Of course, they will know, but how will they know who was the one who was in contact with them? What do you write in marriages, articles? Nonsense. No data on his location? That's what this app's for. Then you read Article 33: "It shall automatically be deleted after 15 days of its recording." Who said that? Well, you tell me when it'll be gone. You get all the data back, who said that? Well, give me a guarantee that this will be erased. You'll keep this thing alive forever. Who's going to feed? That's what we're asking ourselves. Who's going to keep this thing alive, who's going to have it in their hands? The Ministry of Public Affairs is currently writing in. The Ministry of Public Administration, secretly. It's gone. It'll automatically disappear after 15 days. Please, look. Well, not us paint, ma, really, ma, look. Ma, ma, I mean, we write articles in marriage, we write articles like that in marriage. So as far as this app is concerned, I'm sure I won't vote for it here. I'm sorry about that. [[Incomprehensible]] Then we go to Article 35, a record of people travelling in transit. Good, because it's good to keep track of everything that is. And I agree. With a view to transiting, within 12 hours of entering the border, who will control it? Will he have the form with him? Who's gonna sign in? A cop? So, every cop's gonna have to write everybody a form. And then you know what you are writing, because this is the right thing to write, because we are Slovenians, the fourth paragraph says: "the persons referred to in the first paragraph of this Article must keep the form until they leave the Republic of Slovenia". What else? That's like saying, if you want to smoke a cigarette, you have to put it in your mouth and pull it. Oh, I mean, what are we writing? Oh, we're writing fairy tales in there. That's the basis of everything, the foundation. Ma, do we really have to draw correctly to understand what this is all about? The persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall keep the form until they leave the Republic of Slovenia. Ma, how else? It's the only way. Why is it 12 hours if it's transitive? In 12 hours, my boys, he'll infect 5,000 people. We're writing something, we need to justify all those cattle and experts we're paying for and I don't know what else. It's okay, so be it. Now, with article 42, I'm going to mention it and then I'm going to finish it because I think it's free. I welcome the idea that there is no longer a limit, that it must be on, I don't know, March 13th, that it was the one that was registered at the time, that it could be broadcast for these vouchers. That's the only smart thing you've done. Since the greatest absurdity is that one can't broadcast if it's finished, now it's been able to broadcast objects and rooms, it can't broadcast because it wasn't registered on 13 March. I mean, where did you come up with that? Of course, we know where – that you have protected certain categories that were intended. But thank God you saved it. And I think, I suggest at least, let me understand, a respected coalition, an advanced coalition to at least this amendment that we have put together, so that by 28 February 2021 this deadline would be to cash out in order to at least save the winter season of certain other objects that are important to these. [[Incomprehensible]] So much for me, Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, and Mr Željko Cigler is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Now, of course, I can respond to the discussions of colleagues and fellow Members perhaps a little later. At first, it is clear to all citizens and citizens. The opposition, at this moment, we can read this, primarily dealing with how to overthrow this government, while this coalition and government are working. They work for people and work for the economy. There's a big difference between this coalition and the previous coalition. In fact, it is before us that I too am bound by the entire law, like other colleagues and colleagues, already the fourth package of measures in the conflict with COVID-19. In fact, all citizens and citizens have already received assistance in one way or another in their existing packages. Tell me which Government has taken measures within three months of its rule that have been intended for all citizens and citizens. Your well-respected opposition, which has been quite long, never since you are incapable of doing so, but of course, or of incompetence, you justify constantly seeking affairs, constantly scaring people, misleading people, and of course forgetting to harm the entire population of the Republic of Slovenia. All of it. Now, this time too, the aim of this package is to help citizens and citizens, as well as our economy, and finally what is also a lot of speech, to protect the health and life of people. The four key points are the proposed law. Prolongation of measures to wait for work at home. Very important. Very important and, of course, useful. Then the fixing and payment of the remuneration for a certain quarantine. This is also very important, because if we want to avoid spreading the virus, quarantine is one of the key measures. And of course, help in this area is more than welcome, but also important. A very important measure, which you are, of course, avoiding to comment on today, because if you comment on it, you can be ashamed of it, especially those who have had years in the hands of work, family and social affairs, which have spent 74 million euros for various studies, and nothing of it, this measure is still an important measure in the field of institutional protection under the Social Protection Act. This is an additional €31 million. In fact, not half of what you've spent on studies, but this time it's money for the real purpose. It is about strengthening the human resources picture in the field of social protection institutions in the public network and the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia. We've been saying for years that malnutrition in nursing homes is that people burn out there, but that's what they've been saying. Today, there is a measure on the table that brings assistance and, of course, support to these employees to improve their staffing in this area. Finally, it is right not to overlook those who have worked hard for the last three months at the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia. If I'm not mistaken, the Secretary of State said that in three months they have somehow processed more than 300,000 different applications. Of course, no one talks about it, rarely when these people are praised, and they have also contributed significantly to our success in the fight against the epidemic. And that's important. And thanks also to these people, because of course money always replaces everything in the sea, but it is important that we not forget them. Well, then, to somehow stop itself on a digital app, whose purpose is to avoid infections. Now, if we remember the first wave, I actually remember the competition about who's going to give more commendation to the employees or I'm going to tell the doctors and everyone else who's working in the health system about how successfully we've fought with the covider-19 and how grateful we are to them. But you know, gratitude is also shown by measures that will allow these doctors not only to burn out, but that they will not eventually have to decide to help anyone so that the Italian script does not happen. Nobody knows what they're bringing in the next few years. He doesn't know anything about it. And you can't tell anyone that the virus is between us. But we can talk about how to protect people, citizens together, and not least to help protect public health. That's right, too. Then today, I hear about a dictatorship. Please, not dictatorship, it's paranoia. You're getting paranoid. I believe it always hurts when you lose power or when it turns out you're incompetent to be in power, but it takes such paranoia and such a way of terrorizing citizens and citizens before a voluntary application, look, it's not funny, but it's devastating. And after you, I am listening to my colleague Koprivac, a worshiper, a dictator who is a democratically elected government who is a dictator. Yeah, that's for crying. That's for crying out loud, but not for laughing. With laughter, because in times it is necessary to sweep before your threshold and Mr Koprivec, I know that you are constantly in the guest, but, you know, the time goes on and you have to go out and do something good for citizens and citizens. The dictatorship is behind us, and thank God it's gone. She has done too much in this country and in some others who are no longer part of us. And thank God that we have succeeded in destroying this, though not completely. You're talking about tracking, controlling, and so on, people. And that, you know who's talking? The ones you were in power when we got illegal access to our maps, police records. Today you are talking about an application that will help people's health and what kind of control this government wants, but under your authority it has been illegally viewed. A scandal over scandals. I hope that we come to this thing once and that they will be responsible not only for taking responsibility but also for paying it as it should be. Because it's a disaster. Today, ask people with an app they can install to see if someone in their environment who should be quarantined does not respect it or is infected. I welcome her very much, because if this app helps to avoid new infections, it is more than welcome and one of the important solutions. And I agree with the Prime Minister of the Government, who said, "Those who are against the app are as opposed to compulsory vaccination." Yes, my dears, I know you're always looking for weaknesses, looking for ways to discredit this government, but, look, with the moves you're making, you're not gonna make it. The fact is that I listed the four key solutions that this law brings, very important solutions for citizens and citizens, and really not to say that the application is intended to control, but is intended to protect public health and help reduce the spread of the virus. Once you get angry because there are measures, you get angry because there are no more, you don't even know what you want, you don't even know what you want and let this desire slow down a little bit for reinstated power, a little bit, slowly, slowly, but for a few months you're able to handle it without being in the bowl. And I hope that this law will be passed and that assistance to citizens and citizens will be given to those who want the application, and those who have become sick and quarantined will have it. It is right that they do, because this will make it impossible or reduce the risk of proliferation, and that is all that is and is not the only one, many European countries know such an application. And will you say that all these countries violate the right to privacy? Are we in this? Let's stop, come on. Rather, look who is responsible for looking into our folders, which is a violation of privacy and this is a serious violation, a serious violation, respectable.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u55	The next one has the word, Mr Koprivc first has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, you're leaving, even though I wanted to replicate to you the part where you say I'm a worshiper, I don't know what kind of terrorists and I don't know what. I'm telling you, it's not true. But I am a great admirer of national liberation and antifascism, and I am very proud of it. But if these are terrorists and criminals for you, that's your problem. And yes, it is a very, very big problem that certain fascist practices are unfortunately here in Slovenia and in many other European countries through which this government is modeling, unfortunately, are being revived. When you said that we do not have confidence in this government, yes, of course we do not have what to trust in such a government, in a government that attacks and insults everyone who thinks slightly differently, who tries to subordinate independent media that offends journalists, who may be critical of what they say at the expense of the Government, who is associating with the biggest non-democratic leaders in Europe, who is also trying to influence citizens and citizens to introduce some mobile applications that are unconstitutional. Finally, how to trust the Government, in which the Minister of the Interior resigned, irrevocably resigns, the President of the Government accepts the resignation and then forgets. There was obviously no derogation and no derogation. Is that normal? It's not normal. You are instituting a Jancist dictatorship, and we will fight against it with determination. There'll be more people on the roads every week.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u57	Thank you so much for that replica. I would only point out at this point on the basis of a discussion of the previous debate which discussed the files, Mr Koprivc, and you were talking about taking over the media and giving up the Minister's resignation. This is not the topic of today's debate, so let's limit ourselves to the anti-Korona package. Before we proceed, I hope that Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has heard my warning, but you still have a procedural message.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u58	I've got a procedure, anyway. Thank you, Madam President, for warning me, but it's only right for me to warn you, too. I don't think I've been misunderstood, and if you have anything to say to me, sign up for the debate in the future, and I think it's the only right thing to do. The Chair of the meeting, the rounding of the list, at least he can apply and Mr Koprivc is no problem. We can say one more thing. Let's just check in as per the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u59	This was not a procedural proposal now either, so you have somehow replicated or discussed with Mr Koprivec. It is probably clear to everyone that the debate will continue today, so that we do not need a procedural proposal to open the sheets. Mr Koprivc, let it be procedural with regard to the use of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u60	Look, we're obviously abusing here now, even Mrs. Bah Žibert procedurally. My replica was completely justified, because I was accused by Anja Bah Žibert of being a fan of dictatorial regimes and dictators, and I responded. But maybe I went a little wider then, but the point was, and I replicated that part. I just wanted to say it again, so if there was too much debate, I apologize deeply. I think it was in three minutes, in time for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u61	Yes, Commissioner, I agree with you. The replica was indeed in place, given that you were misunderstood by the MP. Once again, let the debate be limited to today's topic, and perhaps if you have anything else to say in addition to your debate, wait for the next round of applications. Now we can proceed with the debate. Mr. Brickler has the floor. Mr. Matjaž Han is ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u62	Madam President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! This is a very important law that we are considering today and I would say this to Mrs Bah Žibert first; I agree with her compliments to the medical staff and also to the staff in the nursing homes, but I would say this when you are with the representatives of the ministries. Yesterday a number of doctors called me who are at the Slovenian Medical Chamber and told me when they would pay us if they were really grateful. Supplements to salary that belong to us under the applicable legislation. Ms Tina Bregant, Mr King Cigler, Minister, who is also here, pay this legal obligation and here I agree that let us concretely express our thanks with a legal attitude towards those who are the greatest part of the weight of the conflict with Covid-19 in the first wave. Secondly, when a colleague Mirnik Divacov spoke about the fact that many people have simple phones, they have not seen them from around them, or they can't even use them, I would say that there is a group of people who simply won't load applications because of objective circumstances. And that is either older or poorer, and whether we will charge between €100 and €600 under the current law of the 48th. Fellow Members and Members, these are their monthly revenues. These are the monthly revenues of users at home in Vipava, for whom Mrs Eva Irgl is concerned, and thank God for doing so, or by Minister Cigler King and Government would now punish it. And you are introducing such criminal provisions, in these cases, according to the Left, it is inappropriate, harmful and hurtful, and therefore in Levica we propose that this article be deleted and here we appeal to the sense of the fellow Members and the social sense of the Members. And I believe that when Mrs Irgle wants to help the elderly in a nursing home in Vipava, she will vote in favour of this amendment. I would also like to say this, and this is also the subject of Mrs Ive Dimic's debate, and the Minister has also called us to do so. On the left, we will support it to be used in the next two years to strengthen staff in homes for the elderly of €31 million. But at the same time, we agree with the proposal to amend this law from the Health Insurance Institute of Slovenia, which is Article 37, that this money should be provided further, not only for two years, because the use of home for the elderly will increase with the ageing of Slovenia. And people need to be provided with the additional personnel needed, which has clearly been highlighted in this COVID crisis, and this is what Minister Cigler King himself is exposing. But it's not just that he needs extra money. The staff employed who carry out hard work in nursing homes is poorly paid, under-appreciated. And these salaries need to be raised and rewarded properly with their work. Also, with the salaries of employees in nursing homes, we practically express and show how we feel about users who use these homes. In particular, I would like to refer here to Mrs Muršičeva, who said how many workers from Bosnia, Kosovo, go to Slovenia from Croatia to work. Yes, if these people were not in Slovenia, a large part of our economy could stop. A lot of people in nursing homes would lose. But these people whom my colleague Muršič spoke about are working in the worst-paid jobs, even in nursing homes, and these salaries need to be raised. I would like to say this further when my colleague Eva Irgl spoke about the app, the COVID-19 tracking application in the second wave, and I would like to point out that in Europe, following the recommendations of the European Commission, these applications are used on a voluntary basis. This fact and this guidance from the European Commission, the European Parliament are practiced by all the countries using the application, except Poland. I would also like to say further that the intervention of this application in privacy, Irgl would say that it is possible to look at a few things also, in privacy and their unconstitutionality and disproportionateity, by such information agents in Slovenia, who were not involved in this legislative process. This is recalled by the Ombudsman, Mr Svetina. They point to this in the very clear opinion of the Institute of Criminology. This is pointed out by the public in Slovenia, the professional and lay public. Unfortunately, all of this is being overturned. And to this public, when it intervenes here in its constitutional right, as long as the obligation of this monitoring application for COVID-19 is enforced, we are practically taking the floor in this way also to ban the invitation to a legislative referendum on this law. Hello? It's a democracy. Mrs Bah Žibert, with such measures around the world they are referred to as dictatorial, authoritarian, those regimes that simply bypass the people. And here virtually there are objections and amendments to change this law of the opposition. I have to say that the Government scares us that the only alternative is that yesterday, on television, Orban and the President of Serbia, also Slovenian Prime Minister Ivan Janez Janša, scares us that the only alternative to introducing a mandatory application is to completely stop public life in our country. No, that's not true. It's a delusion and a false dilemma. And the first COVID wave was not created by the authoritarian Slovenian government, which is now in power, which has contributed a lot of activities that have contributed to this, but it was the self-protection of citizens and citizens who respected all the measures and instructions of this government and what was important was the functioning of people and the public sector in health and home for the elderly. And I must say that without, once again, without any public debate and cooperation from the professional public of the state bodies I have previously mentioned, information agents, the Ombudsman, etc., a mandatory use of the mobile application for the supervision of citizens is being introduced. In doing so, I would say, when Minister Miha King Cigler said not only to criticize, let's make suggestions, let's give opinions. Look, hugely on the working bodies, the work committee, the health committee, there were a lot of amendments, discussions, but all the proposals, especially the Left, I'm going to talk about us, with which we can directly help workers, self-employed, students, socially disadvantaged and poor workers, the coalition has refused. How, then, can we work together? Excuse me. Can you tell us how to work together? Or by voluntarily putting apps on our phones, follow-up? And instead of mobile applications in Slovenia, we need investment in health care and long-term care and care for the older part of our citizens and citizens. And we urgently need investments in health infrastructure, home for the elderly and staff to be adequately paid in these institutions. Appropriately paid. And we need broad testing, we need stable health care, one health care, the Health Insurance Office is this, and we need a power that will communicate clearly, clearly, and clearly, what it does not do at this point, and these are the measures that are at home for the elderly, which, in so far as it helps to establish a colleague Eva Irgle, are welcome and necessary, not applications. And I would also say this, but now their incompetence and, of course, the inaction of this government will also be solved by one application and a grave intervention in the privacy of individuals. The government, of course, was ahead of the choice, but investing in health care or strengthening repressive apparatus, but decided apparently for repressive, control apparatus and investment as we were informed, 780 million in strengthening and arming the Slovenian Armed Forces in order to help occupations and imperialism throughout the entire part of the earth, does not protect the Republic of Slovenia. And instead of investing in people's well-being and satisfying health needs, the government is strengthening the repressive apparatus and repressive measures. In the end, I'd like to say this right now. Look, today there were quite a few arguments that were said, very clear, I think that are understandable to every half-lettered person who has spoken against being introduced as a compulsory application, where it practically works as a requirement through this law, which, although saying that it is voluntary, is not introduced. This is what citizens and citizens are alerting us to, and that is what my and some predecessors have been talking about today. And it is exposed in particular, and I will point to what all of us are reminded of by our electorates and voters, and they are now following what will happen when we discuss and vote on this law. 9 reasons why this application is unacceptable are given. First of all, it's not effective at infecting the epidemic. Although known in many countries around the world, none of these countries report on the successful fight against the pandemic. And given that the first wave, as I said before, has been relatively successful in the pandemic, mainly due to the capacity in healthcare homes for older and disciplined behaviour of citizens and citizens, it is now being built to stop the future wave and to repair the future second wave of the epidemic by introducing repressive measures such as this application. Another reason I shouldn't have introduced myself. Yeah, applications are private-invasive. At the same time, for medical inefficiency, apps are at high private risk. The use in many world regimes is linked to repression, social surveillance and the collection of sensitive data on citizens and citizens, about us. Where the regimes will first establish irregular legislation to introduce control time at the time of the epidemic. They will first expose themselves, and then this practice will continue even after the crown of the virus is no more. Today, almost every member of the opposition who talks about this matter is reminded of this. Third reason why not. Applications create a false sense of security. The app will further endanger the lives of users to create a false sense of security – “but now it will be all right if I warn” – although at the moment we do not even know what the application will look like and it is clear that in the social debate it has created the feeling that the application will save lives, prevent the pandemic and protect the individual from infection. The fourth reason he's talking about not confirming it is the digital divide will be deadly. In fact, examples from around the world show that the app usually works only on the latest phones. Due to technological constraints in older models, this will not work. Who's using older models? As I said before, pensioners, including in homes, including in a home in Vipava, which Mrs Irglov helps him - I hope that he will do the best he can to help him - and vulnerable groups of social workers who do not even have phones are socially at risk. And who's the most risky group? Like I said before, pensioners, the poor. The fifth reason we can't confirm this today. Optional application is not a solution. Relying on a responsible individual who has not yet been able to use simple protective masks or maintain physical distances fades in expectation that the same individual will know and be able to use complex technological solutions that do not even work, as I said before. The sixth reason, the responsibility for mistakes. Would you really like to trust your life with technology, which will be developed by people without experience in this area - the Coronavirus only appeared in February 2020 - which is already so unreliable, this authority, including this technology, in full implementation and held by rulers who do not hide their sympathy with the autocratic regimes, those mentioned earlier by Comrade Koprivc? It's the seventh reason. Who's gonna make a living with development? In view of the fact, and it is essential that before the confirmation of this law, which is before us today, the public lobbying for the execution of the service of preparing this application for the prevention of COVIDA-19 can also be expected to mix, abuse of tax money, private exploitation – as we have seen in the acquisition of personal protective equipment. The last reason is that it is impossible to control abuse. Even if we actually develop and implement the application and achieve a critical mass, it is almost impossible to control the misuse of the data that will be collected in this application. And even though it is a decentralised development model, where data will remain somewhere on the phone, there is a great possibility that some applications such as Facebook, Instagram or Google will then access these data related to the coronavirus, export it to unknown locations and use it for unspecified purposes. Finally: the Slovenian government is not worthy of the confidence it wants to establish through this application. Cases of personal and interesting pandemic abuse are known, this is an affair of the mask that I have already mentioned, which has already been carried out by the current coalition. The manipulation of anti-Korona measures is known, and there have been cases where government work has been affected by the work of independent authorities in Slovenia. Thank God some have resisted, especially the police, the NPU, the prosecution, the judiciary. How can such people then be trusted to develop and manage an application that we do not even know what it would look like but has the potential for totalitarian social control? This matter, which I have said because it came to all our phones today, has been transmitted to us by citizens and citizens united through the Ethical.it project, I suggest that before you decide to confirm this law, which contains this legal provision, you reconsider. In fact, in a law that contains a lot of things, as I said earlier, regarding the financing of additional staff in homes for the elderly and the raising of salaries in them and some others that benefit citizens and citizens, there are articles that we simply cannot accept through the confirmation of this law in Levica and for this law itself, such as it is now, with such authoritarian and supervisory mechanisms, I will not vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I think I owe you an explanation, at least for the statements I've heard. While I swear by my own critical mind and I am actually very pleased when the debate is actually solid, there is no need for us to agree on everything. And I think that modern technologies or new knowledge or new challenges, as covid-19 also presents, are just the opportunity for all of us to master in critical thinking and thinking. Maybe real quick. Besides, add-ons aren't the topic today, but I'm only going to give one quick answer because we were invited. As far as additives are concerned, applications for payment of the additive. Whoever filed this application in time will also receive it. At the Ministry of Health, we process these requests, we check them, some have already gone to the Ministry of Finance, and only then does the employer pay. So we know that there are delays on that side as well, but you can see that this chain is actually such that anywhere on this chain there can be backlogs. But we confirm these claims and we review them. That's one thing. The second thing, the numbers we've heard today, is these famous 60% of the population. Where does that number come from? This number actually comes from the media. In fact, at the beginning of the crown of the crisis, Professor Christophe Fraser of Oxford said that 60% of the population – it is said that if 60% of the population used this mobile application, then more effects would probably be achieved. How it came to this number - it is 80% of all using smartphones, which means 56% of all in the population, with this phrase continuing to achieve, without any other measures, the control of the spread of the virus in the population. This figure is derived from an Oxford study and was corrected in May and June and published in the MIT Review. Here I must say that both Professor Fraser and Andrea Stewart of Oxford and the latest models show that this number is ideal but difficult to reach, which means that if you load more than 10% of the population of this application, it already means added value. In short, the target number, ideal, would be 60%, but anything above 10% is already an added value, and that is important to know. I will also be very happy if you actually find some legal solutions, and the good amendments certainly offer this opportunity, especially if they are of benefit to our citizens. However, I must say that I also want to protect the community in the simplest and also the most cost-effective way, and this open-source, voluntary application offers exactly that. However, modeling shows that it is precisely for this use that other, more rigorous measures in the community should not be taken. At this point, I also strongly agree that nothing helps us if we have a mobile app, and then we do not all act responsibly together. However, an application that is voluntary and open-source and requires responsible action can help us. True, we also live in the age of digitisation and artificial intelligence, which requires care and caution. With covid-19 I hope we're all learning. And I agree that the mobile app itself will not save the presence of the virus, it will save our responsible behaviour, which we have already demonstrated. A mobile app such as we are actually studying with the Ministry of Public Administration, and with the work of epidemiologists it can actually help if we choose responsible behaviour. From choice of application, to use, to choosing to upload it, to communicate in the system if we are infected or even if we are in this close, risky contact or when we are sick. In short, I really want us to act as a society responsible and of course use modern technology as an opportunity and as a help, not as an abuse.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u65	Thank you very much. There's a replica of Mr. Brickler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u66	Madam Secretary of State, thank you very much for your reply and also for the invitation to all those who have participated in the content of the application in its creation or marriage. Look, that would be good, but organs like the Ombudsman, the Information Commissioner, the Guardian, various experts, including the Institute of Criminology, which I previously cited or the public. In the legislative process, when this law arose, it was not included. The information officer has learned about this matter in the same way as other citizens and citizens from the media. Then how can we work actively and positively together? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor to prepare Mrs Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Vice President, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! In the beginning, let me say something that is almost unrelated to this marriage. That's already because there's a fourth marriage in a row and I can't, I'm going to say I lose feeling, I can't lose the feeling that the government side wants these themes and the adoption of these laws under some influence of some ideology. Why do I have that feeling, and I'm gonna avoid it so we can understand it? Because in the legislation that I think is necessary you always put one article into which the opposition and the interested public jump, as I'm going to say, I don't know what and then we're talking about this article, I don't know, 80 percent of all the debates. All the other articles, and of course you, on the other hand, all the other articles, which are very important for the lives of our people, remain I'll say a little bit on the side. Since this is the fourth law, we have discussed in laws that are substantive, which have saved the economic picture that saved the social picture in the country, we have dealt with 37.A or the military at the border, we have dealt with 103. and 104. with the police powers. Today we are dealing with this mobile application. This is one “non sense” to me, and I will tell you honestly why. I agree with what my predecessors have said, but the Secretary of State, I see no point in this application. If I take away all the concerns we have, I don't see the point. People are the majority of citizens and citizens, do not underestimate them, respect the laws, I will say various orders, respect the rules. Because if you didn't respect all these rules that you and the government and the epidemiologists have put on the table in the last period, we wouldn't have such a positive picture today. Is that right? Here. On this mobile app, I don't know if you're going to take the phone with you, but if you don't download it, no one will be watching you, and whoever wants me to say quarantine is going to play it or whatever, they're going to play it. No app will help him. That is unfortunate, but 90 or 95 or 98 percent of Slovenes and Slovenes will follow certain rules without application. Of course, if the rules are clear, if the rules are directed in such a way that you feel that they are logical and that we will come out of this relatively winners if they can be called winners. On the other hand, 70 percent of Slovenians who have Facebook write everything they eat, what they will do, where they will go, where they are, and so on and so on. The problem is also a little in confidence with some in the government and so on, but as I said before, I'm not stopping here anymore. I don't see the point, Secretary of State, in the app. In addition to all the problems that our legislation has brought about, which talk about human rights and so on, I see no point. Unless it's a blur to just talk about the app and everything else isn't. Okay. Now, another enko. I'm listening to the other side. Normally, I used to be in a position, and we could talk. To talk about how the government is capable and what it has done and how cool and so forth, it holds everything. She could've reacted. But because of the people, it is necessary to say everything we have given, and they say that we have given all citizens and citizens, all these citizens and citizens will be returned. So we will be able to repay all these funds that we have spent in three months on various economic and social solutions. All these dear citizens and citizens, we'll all be able to return this through taxes, through, through, I'll tell you what kind of abolition of some social transfers over a couple of years and so on. All of this will be returned by the state. Unless Europe says once, it will wipe out, I don't know, a couple billion each country or percentage. That's different. Thank God. So that everything we give, we can get it back. Now, the question of sense is what do we give, what do we solve, or whether we have found the right goals? That, of course, is now the point of whether we find it in the right way or not. I'm aware we're in the fourth law today. And I believe why. Because this virus, this crown is abnormally misplaced. All of us would probably like to have a single marriage through which we would have taken this law in one way or another, but you see that not the case that they are again, I'll say, the crown on the march is that some of the measures have been received, some have not received it at all, some have been missed, what Bandelli said and it is necessary to fix it. That's normal, too. Legislation is a living thing, but that the government or the government majority doesn't want to hear a single amendment from the opposition in difficult times, when it might also build a little trust, and I don't understand it. And as you walk around the world, either in Slovenia or we walk in Slovenia, people tell us what's good, what's not bad. Unlike some of my colleagues, I think that as far as these vouchers are concerned, the matter was ok. Because it's a ton of social money. This money was directed to save one segment of the economy. It's tourism. Now, could this voucher be different so that I could still use it in the restaurant and so on, this is a matter of debate. Because sooner or later, we'll be able to do typical catering, catering, those who have restaurants, food, and so on, if we close them and so on. But you don't listen to one story that, when we proposed, the social democrats, we'll extend it to the end of the winter holidays next year. Why did we propose that? Because this also saves, for the first time, the same tourism as you save it, and for the second time, maybe at this stage, I will say, in a way, also the pressure on all tourist operators in this Slovenia, because they are too crowded and also likely to break the epidemiological picture with it and could also solve next year because these companies will have the same problems, they will also solve this tourism. And neither is that. I don't understand that. But, okay. Second. When I'm waiting for work, I'm sorry I won't say anything wrong. When extending the measure, compensation for paid waiting for work. Do you think that's because now it shows because we have a fourth marriage, but you think the picture will end in September, or that the economy will be fixed and so on. Yeah, it won't. We can see for ourselves. It just gets worse. And every day a press conference, every day a scare from the media with this crown, and there one got infected, and there two, and there three. Look, economists don't know where they are and let's get this thing extended by the end of the year. Well, if it's fantastic October, November, we can still say we'll shut it down. But in the economy, that jobs will be kept, that they will not be lost, that people will not lose jobs, is this, I will say one security, one prediction of what can happen in the coming months. And the other one. You know that one segment of the economy is still in an impossible crisis, called this party and so on. There's no concerts, there's no event, it's gonna get worse, now we've cut 50 to 10 people off. There we have a bunch, a bunch or thousands of people who deal daily with some segments in this industry of light bulbs, technicians, musicians and so on, not to mention, they don't get one euro anymore. How will they survive? They won't, will they? And to them, in fact, these s.p.i. and so on, they have to give this basic income of €700 for essentially these self-employed people who have dropped 30% or are not working at all. And that's not a lot of money, because we're giving money or we're in charge of giving it. You won't bring him back, and neither will I. Generations after us will bring him back. So I already told you about this mobile app. I don't mean to speak because it seems to me that you throw away one article every time, which we then discuss and fight in this article and so on. So these are the little things you should just do. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And if you trust us a little bit, maybe if we consider all other political stories, we can trust you a little bit that we can work together. But if you don't, you'll have to take your responsibility. But you know, like at home, it's not hard to spend, it's not hard to take credit and spend for that, for that, for that, for the third, for the fourth, but then you have to pay it back. And that's what people need to be told. Everything we give today — and it is right to let the state not stop — will be back in a few years. And another problem that I see, I will say not on the Slovenian side, on the European side, on the world side, if you want, or if you want me to stop on the European side, every country saves the story for itself. Each country has a different starting point to what it will do and so on, although all countries are about the same situation as any Prime Minister or government, each Prime Minister can invent or close one country or throw one country on the yellow side or on the green side or on the red side and so on. That seems to me to be very bad in general. And it turned out that, my dears, in recent times in our neighbouring countries, when they had elections, I am speaking to Serbia and Croatia, where at the time of the elections, at the time of the campaign they went as if nothing was happening. When the election was over, there were problems. And that's generally wrong, I'm saying generally it's wrong for, I'm going to say solve this thing with this disease. Before the elections, Mr Vukic made a match for 15,000 people, after the elections when he won, I don't know how many, I don't care at all, but it's their business, and it's going to jail. This should not be happening, this should be, at some European level, some rules of the game should be followed. But it is true that we will not be able to close the country, because after the economy that is already on its knees, at least now we are helping them to get up, at least now we are helping him to get up. If we close the countries, if we start to squeeze this economy even more, which is important for you not only to think about the economy, because there are jobs and people today are afraid to lose jobs and lose their jobs in particular, I will say some faith in some future. Therefore, I think it is crucial that perhaps these measures, which are well-intentioned, are not just well-intentioned, which are logical to take them. I don't know about this app. I've known the Minister of Social Affairs for quite some time. I don't know if the Minister for Social Affairs wanted to be in this law, which is a relatively solid law that could be even better with our amendments, just that application in there. To talk 90% about the application, not about the real problems they are. And yes again, and I conclude, I see no point in the application, I see no point in it, because those who want to break, unfortunately, are also like that, will simply leave the phone at home or will not load the application. And so let's put more money in the inspectors and let those who make the quarantine decision just check and punish the one who violates it. And if we listen a little bit more, we'll sort this country out a little bit more normally, because we too are responsible for what's going on in here and what's going on out there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Dr. Tina Bregant, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u70	Thank you very much. If I understood correctly, it was not clear what the purpose of the application was. By repeating that the application does not serve to verify compliance with the rules or control, it does not use GPS. However, when I get sick, it allows me to inform all my close, risky contacts, and, look out, you've been in contact with someone who's been sick for the last 24 hours. In fact, why? Because in disease COPID-19 most transmissions of the virus of the crown occur during the initial period of the disease, that is to say when we do not even know that we are sick, 24 to 48 hours before or before symptoms occur. And that's basically how we do it. And I am sure that the app will be loaded especially by those who will feel responsible for others. But I also agree with you that this requires trust. However, trust is built on both sides, so that I see the added value in an application that is voluntary, open-source, completely transparent, which is similar to German applications or applications used by many countries in Europe and which are also in line with European legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague named Monica Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I too will briefly refer to the content of the proposed law, which we also call the so-called fourth anti-korona package. Or perhaps there are questions about why a coalition or government needs a fourth marriage package to address the effects of the coronavirus. We know that this virus is very insidious that we didn't know anything about its spread months ago. Today, too, behavior is rather limited. It was impossible to predict, a few months ago, all the possible consequences and all the necessary measures that would rightly address all things so that they could continue our lives as much as in some normal contexts. In fact, it's happening to us specifically now, somehow, the beginning of the second wave of the epidemic. We don't know how it's gonna work out. It is true, however, that all the previous three antikoronic laws are, to a large extent, very appropriate and have successfully addressed those open questions or the first dilemmas that have arisen. In the first months, it was possible for people to survive in a kind of dignified way, despite the complete closure of economic activities, when in fact only the most urgent activities were established. Somehow the first wave of rising unemployment was plagued, and it was preserved, or is now reinstated after a few months, by a rather positive economic climate. It is true that the current situation, current events, developments require further adjustments. That is why today we have this fourth antikoronic law, which brings a number of different sectoral solutions. At first, let me lean on the most optimistic aspect, the use of tourist vouchers. This is an extension of the range of potential bidders who will be able to accept these vouchers, so it is an absolute positive measure from this point of view. There is also an extended period of subsidisation of student diet. Of course, the additional resources for institutional protection of the elderly, so that the homes for older citizens can be strengthened in a human and organizational manner to avoid the blackest scenario in the first wave, which was not our greatest pride, or we would absolutely like to avoid it further, because we know that the oldest are the most vulnerable groups that this virus can cost us lives. Today, this law also extends the period of subsidisation of the extension of the waiting-for-work measure. Here I do not agree with the predecessor, Mr Bandelli, that this is a measure that does not bring positive solutions to small and medium-sized enterprises so that they are not being used somehow. That's not true. I know a lot of businesses, entrepreneurs who have been happy to take advantage of this measure. He allowed them to put some of their workers on hold and adjust their business to the new situation during these months. On this account, they will be able to cope with these difficult transitions and also to adjust their business to future new situations, which we can almost be sure will not soon be the same as they were. Yes, of course, the most controversial is the introduction of a tracking app for the infected. Let me begin by stressing that this application is designed primarily to raise awareness of ourselves, to raise our responsibilities towards ourselves and others. I see it as a kind of educational moment to realize that the situation is not what it was and that we need to take care of our own health and also the health of our loved ones. After all, even the protective masks we are wearing now are primarily designed to protect others from potential infection if we are infected ourselves. So it's right to look not only at ourselves, but also at others. And from this point of view, I welcome this measure of application or see it as a positive contribution to the longer term fight against the virus. And I want all elected representatives of the people, both from the coalition and the opposition, to be aware of their responsibilities in raising awareness of how dangerous the virus is and what people themselves can do only for prevention. Of course, we have also heard a lot of observations or concerns about why this application is not appropriate to intervene in privacy, so that the country collects our data. On the other hand, yes, of course, because also multinationals collect our data with each of our own consent, with each of our clicks, by agreeing on websites with those Cookies we say, so here I really wonder why the opposition should literally look for reasons not to support a good marriage package and seek reasons, today there was also an argument that these data can, our personal data collect multinationals. Apparently, you trust multinationals more than you trust your own country. Second, it was obvious that it was an unconstitutional, unconstitutional measure. Now, about unconstitutionality, I still think that in the end it is still the Constitutional Court's decision. When it weighs, however, when it weighs on the rights to health, to a healthy living environment, to the rights to privacy and to the protection of personal data, it is a matter of weighing when I am slightly banalising that due to some potential lower level of personal data safety no one will die, while on the other hand, because of the spread of the virus when no one is present, some vulnerable groups have not been provided with a safe living environment, and this may also have fatal consequences for whom. Although there were then some obvious, political revelations again to the parties Desus and SMC, which we were also part of the previous coalition on how to issue our electorate and who are basically beating our programming principles or what, all through us are evident from certain current opposition options this betrayal, but still, look, I would like to see that we are all dealing with our constituents when someone is dreaming about some early elections, I would like to point out here that early elections have already had three early elections before that, early elections are a sign of some political crisis and instability in the country, but now we have a stable majority government, which is very fast and well addressing crisis situations, non-political crises, but a health crisis due to the external circumstances of the Coronavirus, as if there is no need for further excitement to be somewhat disturbed by the political crisis. We also know that the path to elections is not as simple as it can be desired for someone in their own political calculus, so my call is, including the opposition, to be constructive, the fight against the virus is so important that it is right that we all are aware of our responsibilities and collectively address and help citizens in their awareness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u73	Thank you very much. There's an MP's word. Elena Zadravlav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Very well greeted Minister, everyone else, colleagues and colleagues! Yes, today and even in the past days we have been listening all the time to how the Government, how you accuse the Government of not doing anything for people, that it is responsible for the deaths of elderly people in the homes of older citizens, to establish a dictatorship, to call on the Minister to rebel against the President of the Government, and I would ask you at this point whether you really believe and think what you say that citizens, citizens will believe, because the facts are that the Government, this Government, who is now working for citizens and citizens and not as you say. I would like to point out here in the consideration of the fourth anti-Korona package that we heard what the best measure was, what was the best measure to combat the epidemic. In addition to the contamination of the arms, the safety distance, the hygiene cough, is one of the essential quarantines. And just because we can infect people's health, we limit the spread of the infection, which is why we are talking about the application today. And as we have heard from a third country, there are only three of us who have not yet introduced these applications and I do not understand why there is so much controversy around the application, because in Article 29 it clearly tells you that mobile applications are being installed and used voluntarily and free of charge, so you will be colleagues from the opposition and those citizens and citizens you speak of as opposed to, you will decide whether or not you will install the application or you will protect yourself from infection and if you will perhaps infect others, that you will not infect other citizens and citizens. Each will act on his own conscience and on his own responsibility toward others. I would also like to ask those who attend the protests, perhaps those who need such an application the most. Why? To warn those around them whether one of them is infected or not, because we are playing differently, and those who attend, especially those who invite to protests, are playing as if they were playing Russian roulette. Therefore, consider what you are saying about the application. In addition, I would like to say that the Ministry also participated in the home of the pensioners of Vipava, as the talks immediately after the outbreak were also attended by representatives of the Ministry. I was alone in contact with a regional coordinator who took care of all the homes of pensioners in the coastal region, and immediately the following day they called representatives of the ministry as well as those responsible at the home of the elderly and as professional staff. And here when we have representatives of the Ministry, I think we know that the government is with us. However, I would also like to comment on the measures that are within this package, namely the extension of the work-waiting measure at home, was a measure that proved to be one of the very good in helping the economy to both small and large enterprises. Because they were able to keep a number of employees, because otherwise they would probably be forced to put them in the employment facility and thus maintain their trust in employees. For the big ones, I would like to say on the Hit case, which is a very large employee in the Municipality of Nova Gorica from which I come and speak with employees both with the Head of Hit and in fact, if these measures were not to have a major problem of unemployment in Nova Gorica. With regard to the use of tourist vouchers, it is good to welcome that they also extend to paralegals, but I do not agree with what has been said that the government has set a deadline of 13. 3. whoever was entered into the register on this day, yes, this deadline has been set, but the conciliators have not been entered into the business register – why - because of the system itself that was established under your previous government and not under the government of Janez Janša and until today you have done nothing to solve this problem, which has been repeatedly exposed so that this group does not disappear every year from the business register of Slovenia. Sadly, however, this problem will also have to be solved by the government of John Janša. However, as regards social security measures concerning additional means of employment, the fact is that at the time of the epidemic it proved to be a need for additional employment or post-staffing precisely because when an epidemic occurred in a social security institution, especially in an elderly home, there was so much shortage of staff because they had to be quarantined. And this measure will be very welcome so that they can have the personnel on reserve, so that at any time not with any uncertainty they can look around the region, but that they will have it within their own institution. However, I would also like to point out that the costs of quarantine in the measure to ensure that the costs of quarantine that are now being transferred to the country are also a measure that will save a wide range of employers and workers because, in fact, the quarantine when it is introduced, I do not think that it is fair for a worker to bear this burden, not an employer. Finally, I would like to comment on the statement made by my colleague Tina Heferle when she said it was her decision, saying "My decision is whether or not to go to work during the epidemic." I don't think it's always like this and she probably wouldn't be able to stay at home. Imagine those who are employed in the economy. Could we just decide and stay at home without the employer’s approval? So you have to be a little careful what's said here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u75	Thank you very much. A replica, a replica of a fellow bricker. Here you go. Let's make it a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u76	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u77	Not a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u78	Very short. I would warn my colleague that she is misleading or I would hope to say it is easier in the claim that the installation of the application [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u79	A colleague. My friend, where did your colleague not understand you? Because [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u80	Just a moment, I'll argue why. That the app is voluntary? The second paragraph of Article 29 of this Law states that the installation of the application is compulsory for anyone in quarantine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. Now what someone disagrees with is the subject of debate. But if someone doesn't understand someone correctly, it's the subject of a replica. And please take that into account. The next one gets the word of Ambassador Mojca the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u82	Thank you very much. This morning, before arriving at the meeting, I received a notification on the update of my application, Google maps, and I was able to receive a report, presented to me a report on the destinations that I visited last month, exactly where I was and when I was. Then I paid some bills online and found out that not only Google, who knows where I was and how much time the bank knows about me – what I buy, where I buy, when I buy, how much I buy, how much I earn, how much I spend, how much I save, or how much I don't save. The publicist who collects garbage in front of our house knows all about me, because he can see the packaging, see if I drink such or other mineral water, eat such or other tuna, see what kind of food I buy, all after packaging. The police know everything about me. We have a central register of the population, and it says exactly what information is being collected about me. Cameras control the streets, shops, Maxi Market garage, under Maxi Market, where I park my car, knows exactly when I came, how long I've been, when I left. They see me get in the car, I get out of there. The school knows all about our children, the grades are on private servers, but they will soon move into a safer state shelter. Because the country is the one who is really supposed to offer the greatest security and guarantee to the citizen. That's why it's a state. And everything is a matter of reliable technique, ethics and control, especially that. The Germans say using this app, they say “vetrauen is the same gut, aber controls is the same withoutser” is very good to trust, but control is even better. I can choose between free movement, crossing state and municipal borders and application. I choose always free movement and application. I don't want any closures. Globalization is too deep. Globalisation is not only economic, globalisation is also social, it is cultural, sport, we share sports successes, we look forward to being here, in the United States or in Portugal. Ski jumping in Slovenia is watched by everyone in the world. Globalization, the way of life, just brings us around the world. Slovenians and Slovenians live scattered throughout Europe and around the world. For months, I was unable to visit my children who live abroad. I'd rather visit them and have an app. In short, we live in a time of free movement of labour, goods, cultural services and sport, and we will not always be able to open and close borders, wait for the first, second, third and -enti wave of the epidemic. I choose freedom of movement and allow that, in addition to all that I have listed, my country, which I trust with it, no matter which party currently leads it, but I believe that the one that leads it, works with my data correctly and is also bound by legislation. I have no reason not to believe my country. Criticism for the purpose of the application seems unfounded to me, because the application is mandatory for those who are infected and those who are quarantined. And for the rest of us, she's volunteering. I'll load it up as soon as it's available. The state will have information, I've heard it, but who says it? The one who advocates state property, because public and best, the state is the best, but the state app is not the best. How's that? And you say people will follow the rules. Look, the tightened Vikings in Sweden are more respectful of the rules than we are, but they have ten times the mortality rate because they have not implemented all the measures. With us, the measures in the first wave worked, but we cannot carry them out all the time, otherwise we would have stopped and slid against the unfathomable poverty. And if the rules worked for all people unconditionally, then we wouldn't be here on the threshold of the second wave, and we are. So we need something, and we can't close the borders again. And we don't want them. The criticism of neo-anonymity suggests a complete misunderstanding of the operation of information technology. Anonymity is guaranteed for human contact. Of course, the doctor needs to know our information. Why would there be a hidden code somewhere? What kind of paranoia is that now? A hidden code that would store something for the country, which country, our country, whom, something. What are these hidden desires? We have a consistent and comprehensive law ahead of us. I am so proud to have such a government that thinks of so many things, so many people, so many needs. So, about the mobile app, I already said I would support it, absolutely. It will allow for free movement. Freedom is a condition for creativity. Freedom is a condition for life. Freedom is something you can't take from people, you can't take from them. And in today’s world, that awareness is so much more present. Among other things, the law regulates compensation for loss, for the cost of employers who must miss a worker who is quarantined. The law offers student food. Here we need to take two aspects into account, not just students who, of course, need student food now, because their study year has turned slightly differently. It's good news for the guests, too. The law also prevents abuse, forgiveness for the situation with COVID. Special news is that reinforcements are coming to the homes for the elderly. It's really very hard work for employees in nursing homes and it's right to get reinforcements and finally, amazing news once, it won't be any more expensive for residents. That's really good. The news is, we know that two new homes will be built for the elderly. I'm always being moved to go back to those 70 or more millions that were used to study. Or perhaps some study will come in handy for one of these two homes. Perhaps they will be so much better that the 70 million will not be completely lost. However, the idea of winter sheepmen seemed very interesting and fine to me from Mr Han's debater. It will probably come in handy for the next budget. This financial year is limited as well. But it's a good thought. By the way, I'd also like to say that we shouldn't waste words just like that. There have also been some unserious allegations in the discussions so far about a terrorist that will be brought about by the application. It's actually a baby. And some comments from Ceausescu and so on. I wouldn't go back with Stalin. Do not leave the mandate there in memory of such slanders, after charges without evidence, after wearing Che Guevara T-shirts, cold doughnuts and lobsters and swimming pools. Let this mandate remain in mind that we were able to unite in adopting a good law and, in particular, a law that shows our relationship to vulnerable groups, that we know how to be solidarity and that we know how to be responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Member Vojko Starović has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! This Coronavirus is a real problem. It's actually showing off. Soon after we solemnly declared that we had almost defeated him as foreign military aircraft flew over us, he appeared to us again. And I must say that I welcome, on one side of this epidemic, against this covid-19, which brings in the additions of temporary measures and relief to remedy the consequences of the epidemic, i.e., in the area of work, working relations, scholarships and social protection; of course, I welcome these matters. However, as colleague Matjaž Han has already warned, I do not know why certain contentious provisions should be introduced, incomplete and irregular, into the law. It's like someone stabbed you in the eye, sparking debate and mistrust. Despite the fact that all the professions, those who are called, the Legal and Legal Service, including the Information Officer who covers this area by the Constitution, and the Faculty of Law Institute for criminology, all find that this mandatory introduction of the application is controversial, very controversial. Fortunately, we have succeeded, at least on the committee, in withdrawing the most controversial article 24 from the proposal, thus preventing a truly complete invasion of the privacy of all of us. But that's not enough. For us as a social-liberal party, SAB, freedom, dignity and the right to privacy are central values. But the provisions of the bill relating to the processing of personal data and tracing, I think they divide us into dark greens and light greens, some country that has achieved its standard of democracy, openness and freedom, does not come. So, in addition to the very clear, very clear constitutional reservations that I would like to repeat, but we have already said so many times that it makes no sense, I will point out some of the very practical aspects of the dispute and questionableness of this application, to which the Information Officer has also pointed. As has already been said, everyone does not have smart phones, they do not know how to use them, and at the same time, we have 600 euros in fines at risk if they do not use them. And another is whether the app actually solves the real cause of the problem. It turned out not to be the same abroad. And on the other hand, the government itself said that the problem was the introduction of the virus, now of this other wave, from abroad. There's something the other way around. Control over us, citizens, by some measure following a rapid procedure that so deeply interferes with rights and is totally inappropriate, because it is not known who will be able to see how much care can be taken - even our Secretary of State from the Ministry of Public Administration could not explain the matter - all of this is in fact inconclusive. And we're going to be taking something really inappropriate today. Finally, we also talked — my predecessor and others — about trust. Why don't we trust our citizens? We proved ourselves because we were relatively successful at the first epidemic. But now we suddenly don't trust them and we need to control them, have them under constant control and control. Then in the government you cannot expect, despite some epp, that people will trust this government to experience affection and satisfaction from all sides. In the SAB Group, we are disappointed that we have not recognized the necessity of deleting these disputed provisions, indeed because they separate us, and apparently they will not bring anything clever, just divisive. That's why, unfortunately, we can't support such a marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Janko Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u86	Thank you very much. As we have done many times now, we are dealing again with things that do not actually belong to this law. However, before this, of course, it must be asked: why does the government of Janez Janša so love the laws that are made in principle, in form, in form, in the face of the ZUJF? for one simple reason – so that he can squeeze in a lot of things that have nothing to do with COVID-19 itself. package one, package two, package three, and now in package four, he's constantly pushing things that have absolutely nothing to do with COVID. It's hard to say an epidemic because we don't have an epidemic anymore. It is no more, since 15 May the Slovenian government has said that the epidemic is no longer in the Slovenian space. And more importantly, we have no emergency situations, we have nothing – we have an emergency procedure. It is not easy in the time of the government of Janez Janša we are actually getting new and new ways of doing things and how to avoid some procedures that are actually normal and normal in a society. Now, I'm going to focus today not on the things that, of course, in this marriage, are written in bold and broad terms, because my colleagues have already talked about this and many will continue to talk about it. But I'm going to touch the one where, of course, they failed with Coronapacke 1, but in any way, we would like to bring now through the side door in Crown 4. Several times has been mentioned, and many times I have listened to the arguments against and for this application, but I will try to get a little bit more detail into what and in what things the government, which is actually obsessed with the control of people, and actually will not be able to survive its government without it, because it has some of its own worries about how to actually bring things through so that it can only keep in power. Let's do it in a row. Now I must say that I am disappointed that the Minister of Labour must represent the package in which the application is located, and it does not concern him at all by the department or by work obligations and must now, I will say this swamp here to defend. If there wasn't an MJU representative in there covering the IT, at least he'd be happy if he was in there, he's gone. The representative of the Ministry of Health is not in there to answer, but it is directly concerned with the application. Naturally, however, the Ministry of the Interior or the police have avoided this story, which is in any way through the side door we are dragging in here in this law, and it has already fallen on the committee, and I see that the new amendment is coming back again. And what would be the most courageous action is that, of course, the Prime Minister would come to defend this and tell Slovenian citizens that he actually puts bracelets around their hands and that, from now on, he will also control them as prisoners under the pretext of "it is about you, your health, your trust, for all of us how well we will live if we have this application". And then the Secretary of State speaks and has already repeated twice today that it is an open source application, when transparency and control are ensured, but does not say that it will actually be mandatory for all those who will have a quarantine, but the application will be mandatory. And of course then one of the Members said, not one, more of them today, they said: it is not about control, not what kind of control, please, but if it is voluntary. But I just don't understand one thing anymore. Why do I have to confirm with my password or code that it's true for me, and that I uploaded this app to my phone? Where's that data going? Another time. Why the Secretary of State at the MJU says the following, we are studying the possibility, otherwise he says another nonsense, we do not need this law for an open code application. He just says that. We don't need him. So why do we push him into the law then says the following, "it is true that we should use this application at least 60% to be effective," but he says, "but the latest studies show," but he doesn't say any study where he found it, the whole world says that this application has no effect, especially if it's open-ended, no effect, if 10% of them just use it, but he's vehemently lying here and he says, "when he consumes ten, it's said that over 10% of the population we already see positive effects, so the number of infected is also decreasing because of this. Please, because of the app, no infection will decrease, but there will be greater transparency, absolutely. And that's why, you know, all these speakers are actually becoming uncreditable, uncreditable because they're not actually using arguments, but they're using a lot of lies or deception to cost the app to bring and present to people as the most useful thing in this society, because now they're going to be rid of all the flies and actually the epidemic is not going to be or COVID-19 is not going to touch them anymore, because they're going to be able to run away from the infected with the app or if they don't know what kind of case because they don't believe that they're going to be watching the phone, of course they're going to be able to test themselves. Well, now, of course, one flaw, or one thing that no one wants to open up to the whole voice, that is, someone calculated when the app is installed, how many tests will increase on the health system every once in a while, and this one will simply not be able to eat it anymore, because the moment that I approach only one person, I will fly for every fig all the time. Explain to me which health system will last, because only once will there be so many and so many thousands of people who will burn and want to be tested. Those who should be tested will not be tested and will not know that they are infected. Please, with no thought, push your head through the wall to see how this will all be resolved. You don't say, one of the countries in the world actually has bracelets already in place, and one of the ideas in our country was also and it was born in this government to have bracelets, only the devil is because you know that the bracelets would not psychologically count you out to people anymore, because the phone can still sell them, but the bracelets not anymore, because that really means that you're a prisoner, not a quarantine member anymore, but a prisoner. And that's exactly what you'd like to do with the Slovenes and the Slovenes. The next thing I find very interesting is when the Secretary of State says, if someone is quarantined, they can order food through this app for example. Why don't you have an app for COVID-19. Secretary of State, sit down, one more time. When I order food through the app, it's my decision, my personal decision, and you just don't get one and you don't understand that you're interfering with personal human rights. But the fact that you prescribe the app is no longer a food order, but it is an obligation that you will first control. I don't know how. He even suggested or spoke of a solution to send some pictures about the current situation. He's gonna be doing his own selfies and taking pictures of him sitting somewhere or not knowing where I'm at. How do you know this is really an apartment? How will you know otherwise than to find out where I am? And not only do you know where I am, you'll know my name, you'll know I'm alive and I'm registered to this address and you'll check it out. Please, this is a police state. Is that why we wanted to essentially choose these attributes? Some people seem to want it. Then it's the next thing. Yes, the Secretary of State says: “So when I say the law is clear in this area and I will approach the production. It should be noted, however, that we do not need this law in essence for open-source voluntary applications.” Now I'm asking you, representatives of the government, unfortunately there's only one minister sitting in there. Has this application already been made, or has someone already ordered this app, how much money have we spent on this app, who has given you permission to make this already, where is this item in the budget that you are already doing this because the Secretary of State talks are to explore options? Please, what are the odds? He'll make the law. And at the end of it says another sentence, which is very confusing, listen very carefully. “So what application will we need is another part of the law that, if we go into quarantine and mandatory application for the infected and those in quarantine. Until we can fully know what the application will be like." How it will later regulate an application, but if it is already not clearly defined in the law today, what it will look like, how it will look like, where it will empower the government to then post a festival on the basis of one provision that we have an application that it has done, and today you are speaking very clearly that it will only be an open source application. Actually, it's what Janez Janša wants. You tell me I can have an app, and I'll tell you what it's gonna be like and how it's gonna work. Just as he did with the budget, you were all in favour and with the budget and the finance minister when the end of the year can manage as you wish, the reallocations of the budget items are set in unlimited place where you want and will be the same with the application. Next thing you know, it's very interesting. With the new Article 25a of the amendment, where you want to bring back what has already fallen out, you want to give the police new powers in any way to access the records of the selected Quarantine Decisions, give me one clever argument that this police will be given these powers. Especially since you're saying the police are already overloaded and you want to help her because she can't do her own work. And now you're up for additional tasks, and this is a task that the police have nothing to do with it, nor is it qualified, nor is it qualified for it, nor does it have any knowledge, nor does it know anything about it. But no, let's give the police this information and the possibility of accessing these apps. I'm sorry. I don't want to. I don't mind if my doctor looks at the records for me personally, because he's simply in charge of me, too. I don't mind, either, as long as the Ministry of Health takes care of this record. But you know, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, I just don't allow him to look through my files and look at my files, it's the most sensitive security information on my health. The Health Act and the Health and Insurance Act make it very clear what the most sensitive personal data in the field of health are and the police have nothing to jump and dig around. Then one of the arguments they're giving me is that the inspectors aren't enough. Yeah, but there's not enough cops. Shall I tell you the number? There's at least 500 of them, at least 500, but let's not give them that yet. What did you do to increase the number of inspectors? Nothing. Do you at least have a suggestion? Where is this intervention proposal now that's in such a hurry, because it's essential if we want to make something out of it, if that's what you're imagining? But the inspectors are always too small everywhere, and so on and so forth, but the police are always a backup dump, a dump and everything needs to be worked out. Now, after the new one, he's taking care of quarantine conditions. Give me one argument to explain. Or the police have the right to access records when taking the child to their parents, and they must be accessible. Is that why the police have access to the files of the Social Work Centre and the courts that conducted the proceedings under the Family Relations Act? He's gone. So don't tell me the police need access to this record because they can get it from the inspectorate, because the inspector will ask the police to go along with it to check whether the quarantine is being implemented or not. Tell me who you're stretching, because if you think everyone else is that stupid, then we're not, if we know anything in the National Assembly. But it's literally a stretch, but I know they'll just pass by again quietly and they'll answer and they'll say you know about the man it's about, it's about life. Please, we're making a police state out of this. I'm going to give you an example that's going to tell you very clearly how dangerous it is when you give certain powers just to give a little thought to the police, because that's cool because someone likes to fertilize with this police. You know, when I became a member of the Municipality of Ljubljana, I was also in charge of red tape and, under my work circle, they came essentially to control traffic in Ljubljana. And the Municipality of Ljubljana also has a so-called control centre for all cameras in Ljubljana and so on and it has this centre and blah, blah, blah, I don't speak. And this is the center, the one that you're a little senior year, you know it used to be in Trdin. What's on Trdin, and you know, the police. And when you got to this building on the ground floor, there was a police on the left, and there was a Traffic Control Center on the right. And the police don't have any authority to look at cameras on a voluntary basis at any time. He can if he has a court order for this. And nothing else. Do you know what was really going on in practice? In practice, it was because they were physically together because they were there for 24 hours because they were friends because they were drinking coffee together, whenever there was a traffic accident, a cop came to his friend, a neighbor and said, "look at me there at that intersection, what's going on there, what's one car accident." And if it was smaller, they didn't go there. They just didn't go. In any case, a police officer should respond to a call due to a car accident and drive away and see what four, four, is really about. It's a banal thing. Not to talk about other things and physically what we could have done, because we couldn't stop it, we could physically move this center to another location, away from the police, because the law wouldn't have helped because they didn't have the authority. And we give them direct powers in the law to search through these records. Where it says he won't go to another record because he doesn't have the authority to. Whoever checks this out, one of the information authorities we have in the country will check it out or how. Give him a break. You know what it's like, ten cases go by, and no one knows about it, but on the 11th, I usually find this 11th is kind of corny, lame. No, we're not a police state, whether you want it or not. I'm going to end this, because I'm talking about trust. You know, as long as I have the Prime Minister of the Government, who's super-compromising on Twitter without a problem, and that's why he has no honor, no ethics, no morals in his head, but he's just lying, and as long as I have the President of the Government, who will declare, vehemently, that we have certain journalists who are prostitutes and whatnot and whatnot, not to mention. Excuse me, this is not a man who is worthy of my trust that I will trust him to read the laws and respect them because he has proved repeatedly by his actions that he does not respect the laws and that he cares one thing about what we talk about in the background. Finally, he did not send his minister’s resignation to the National Assembly. How am I supposed to trust him with one review of the records, and when I read in the media that the Minister was just walking around the centre for internal affairs, where they control what I was talking about, only the control he has after his work cycle within the police? Excuse me! This President of the Government should have left this city a long time ago, given how many times he has broken the law, and how many times has he actually violated one of the basic principles of one of the first men in the executive branch in this country. Of course, that's not gonna happen, because I'm not naive, away from that until it's 46 plus. But this number 46 plus let's think about the ones who made it possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Member Predrag Baković has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u88	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister! Dear colleagues and colleagues! One of the main criticisms we have put in place in previous laws and even today is that the proposed measures in the area of job conservation are too short. While unemployment growth has calmed down in some way and has stabilised, it is also certainly due to measures aimed at protecting jobs, such as wage compensation for waiting for work. However, many industries, such as tourism, catering, the automotive industry, transport, feel the consequences of the epidemic and will continue to feel it. And one of our main critics when adopting this third anti-korona measure was the shortness of the proposed measures. Therefore, we have again proposed a number of amendments to the law, which we believe would contribute to a more successful and efficient exit aid to the economy and we have proposed that the subsidised waiting for work should be extended until the end of August. The re-increase in the number of people infected with COVID-19 and the increased crossing of the state border has shown that the consequences of the global pandemic will not end so quickly. And because of a high degree of uncertainty and a possible second wave of epidemics, in fact, all economic sectors will need much more time to recover than originally thought. Therefore, we also propose extending the measure of partial reimbursement of remuneration to workers on temporary leave until the end of this year. All employees in individual economic sectors have not yet returned to work because they are gradually returning because their return to work is conditioned by the gradual growth in the size of their business. And there is also the possibility that they will have to send workers back to the companies to wait for work. And now, if I withdraw, in the SD and together with the other opposition parties, we have proposed improvements to the law, i.e. to improve both the situation of people and the economy, which have not been adopted. Therefore, no compensation has been adopted for the remuneration for waiting until the end of this year. We have proposed reintroducing a basic income of €700 for self-employed persons whose turnover has fallen by at least 30% or because of the epidemic, in fact, they have not been able to carry out their activities. And, of course, the extension of the tourist vouchers to 31. 3. as has been repeatedly exposed, including the winter tourist season and the winter school holidays. Winter tourism is also tourism and such an important industry in our country. As far as the app's concerned, I'd say the following. First of all, look at the anomaly that took place when the Quarantine Decisions were last issued. What kind of a banal matter are we on, or can we fall? So, what happened at the border is the authority issues a quarantine decision to a person, finds out his identity, says his identity, says his identity card, gives the address. [[Incomprehensible]] And, of course, when it was necessary to check whether this quarantine was taken into account, the supervisor who came to the object or in front of the address where this person resides found that it was a large apartment block, let's say that this is BS3, where there are so many and so many tenants and look at it, neither on the door nor on the doorbell nor on the mailbox he found the name and surname of that person who was quarantined because he happens to live in an extramarital community with a person who was otherwise written and was, his name and surname were not on the doorbell or door. A banal case, but from what I've heard, there's supposed to be 18 cases like this in recent times, and how we can fall on this matter. So how do you control these things? Search the whole apartment block? Now, the body has issued a decision in the belief that the matter will work, and we have found that the measure may not work and does not work as we thought it would. And so, Your Honor, it will also happen to an application on which you place all your hopes. Finally, even the Prime Minister is talking about the only alternative – either the app or we close everything up like it did in the first wave. I understand. Opinions on these applications are different. The coalition welcomes this, including part of the profession, and there are many concerns about both the legislative legal service of course and the information officer and others. These are institutions that need to be heard and that are worth listening to and that are prepared so that at least the legislative legal service and the information officer will be satisfied or have no major concerns about the introduction of a new measure. But what's interesting about this is this. If I follow back a little bit, I don't have any terrible historical memory, because this is my first term, but I can already make certain comparisons from the beginning, I'll say a reference to today. And we see how today’s coalition is falling into some kind of conflict or conflict with itself as to the position they had earlier when they were in opposition. What's this all about? We need to be aware of something. In the mandatory application for those who are quarantined or sick, i.e. as provided by law, I understand, I personally understand that these people may pose a potential threat to others, but we must be aware - and this is crucial - that neither those who are quarantined nor those who are not criminals, are criminals and so must be understood and treated or taken. And here it makes no sense that the coalition insists that the application, that the application is mandatory for these two categories, but when we wanted to give the police more and better tools to effectively prosecute criminals, those who form the coalition today were against. What do I mean? I'm thinking of IMSI hunters and other measures. In particular, the SDS objected to these measures and even submitted a constitutional assessment. And, Your Honor, this is where the coalition comes into contact with itself, and that's not right. And here it is a matter of behaviour in the way that the only good measure is the measure proposed by their option. And when you decide on this issue today, keep in mind what trivial things have happened to us in the issuance of an analog quarantine decision and how to control it and on the other hand have in mind how, what things can bring about an application that we don't even know how it will work, how it will work if we overrun certain amendments. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u89	Thank you very much. There's a MEP with a word. Andrei Reich. I don't see a fellow Reich, so let's move on. The next one gets the word of a Member of Parliament, Joseph Lenart. Here you go. Joseph Lenart, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Therefore, the draft law on intervention measures to prepare for the second wave of COVID needs to know some things. By now, this government and this country have already spent more than €6 billion on all measures, anti-Korona measures, laws in these packages. So if I first touch on this amendment proposed by the LMŠ Parliamentary Group with the opposition parliamentary groups for Article 7, which is actually linked to the remuneration of the remuneration for working time due to the exceptional business situation of the Crown. Thus, the employer's remuneration, which would then be higher, would not be limited to unemployment or compensation, and would in fact result in a much higher expenditure, the difference if the average salary in the Republic of Slovenia in 2019 was a thousand 700 gross. Let me just say that the same LMŠ, which led the government at the time that this amount was enacted in Parliament, did not cheer for the cost of the budget to be raised. At that time, she did not cheer, at that time doing more economical work, as did ours, or the government, of Janez Janša. If we are still going to pay very high salaries to employers to pay high salaries for waiting for work, then it would also be somewhat disincentived for these people to return to their jobs as soon as possible. Of course, if we have some pressure now, let's press this country, let's press this government to give as much as possible, then we have the opposite of not being responsible enough to get as angry as we can, this disease, the crown epidemic, if I say so. So, I hope that we will not actually experience this second wave to the extent that it was the first, but, nevertheless, we have probably already learned something, but we have to be responsible, that everything must be done to protect people's health and lives. With regard to the content of the key solutions provided by package four, the extension of the waiting action, which I have already said something about, and I think it is very good to continue to determine the remuneration for a certain quarantine, institutional protection measures. I am very pleased that this package also touches on the financing of additional staff in nursing homes and employment institutions, because for ten years there is talk of where we are actually undernourished. And now, with 31 million for the next two years, we are touching a problem that will finally begin to resolve after some steps, even though it is a crisis. But it's true that these shots were the most hit in the time of the pandemic. Well, if I say one more small thing about this app that I think would contribute to the virus getting bugged. People have a right to know whether we've been in contact or not. And if the country is now expected to finance salaries, full-time waiting, full-time contributions, it is further expected to cover the losses of employers, perhaps even profits they did not have. And from this title, the state and government, which is leading it, has the right to control and control in some way that the matter will not fall apart again and that we will not, say, spend another 6 billion to get out of the crisis. If this is all connected to each other, then I'll say it's like if we're at home in the kitchen on fire, and it's unlikely that none of us here will be waiting for this fire to start and that there'll be a fire all over the house, so we'll start putting it out right now. And we've been doing it since the beginning. Maybe someone won't worry if the neighbor gets hurt, but all the people in this room can't be indifferent to what's going on with our citizens, and we need to take care of their health and their protection. This is how I am joining the minister, who mentioned that they are highly critical, that some are highly critical, and that they are not giving any idea otherwise. Someone said he was cheering. I have to say, it's not even like that. It is said that those who in some way all the time that none of this is right, and that in fact the colleagues from LMŠ and then also from SD, if you are already yelling about repression and I don't know about the police state, even about the dictatorship here today, I suggest that someone look inside at the lexicons also mean something, and then of course I would say that you should also scream at those colleagues who are participating without the protective masks of those protests. And the fact is that there, too, it would actually be necessary to use common sense and at least to protect yourself if there are no others, as the colleague from LMŠ finally finds, it is irresponsible, end, amen and dot what it already means. So even on this mobile application, if this was some kind of device, because we actually want to keep at least the situation that we have now so that we can move on normally. We have other options, it says, we could do, I don't know, 500 controllers, but those who are quarantined and those who are, I'll say, sometimes they're violating, and we're moving too much, and we'd monitor them at home, but no one thinks about it. Besides, it's a lot more expensive than one of those apps. If I say this Mercator knows everything from us, because we buy a lot in it, then Lidl knows Spar, then our bank knows, then Google maps know, you use it for six months, and then you find that you can look back for five days where you actually moved up to 20 meters exactly. And now, if we are using a matter to preserve health, you, instead of opposed, expect someone to say what is but what is better than what is being sought now, but we need to know that similar applications are being used, I don't know, by EU countries like Germany, France, Italy, Denmark, etc., from different titles, also from different platforms, some have developed it themselves, and in fact no one there is making some big pumps out of it, but here I'm going to say that some shouting and screaming, so let's be responsible and support the package in full. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Member Maš Kociper has the floor, and I apologize to her at the same time for making a mistake in reading the order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u92	There's no problem, Vice President. Thank you very much. In today's consideration of the so-called fourth anti-Korona package, we can see that part of the discussion or debate is divided into this economic work, but we call it health care, especially the application of which today is also the biggest talk. First of all, let me reiterate that we in the SAB party, as well as personally, support all those efforts of the Government towards the economy and the population, say, facilitate the consequences of this crisis, and maintain as many jobs as possible, that the damage to the economy will be as little and that, of course, individuals will be able to live as normal as possible. As the opposition, of course, we have a second task, our task is to draw attention to possible controversial issues, laws or to propose different ones, in our opinion a good solution, and here a large part of the debate has focused on this application and on its meaning, legality, constitutionality, etc. As usual, some, in particular those who support the Government, have been very fond of the application, one of the Members has even demanded that all Members of Parliament load this application immediately in order to protect its health. And on the other hand, we have others who are very dislikable with this app, even those who think that this is now the obvious introduction of dictatorship. I do not agree that this application is obviously a dictatorship, and as it is designed, I must say that I do not see it as much as wrong. But if so many institutions here warn that something is wrong, then I hope you do not expect Members to be able to support such things. I am well aware that in the case of crises and coronavirus and everything about it, the crisis that we have, of course, never before had to interfere with human rights. Interventions into human rights in certain situations are allowed, but under certain conditions, they must be limited, things must continue to be thought out and proportionality must be kept in mind, it is said that there is no excessive interference with human rights. This philosophy has been well taken by the Ombudsman, who has also called on the Government to carry out a preliminary assessment of the consequences of human rights measures before any human rights intervention even when it comes to health insurance, and is aware that such proposals and measures must be well thought out, weighed and duly legally reinforced. The adoption of new measures at both legal and sub-legislative levels must take into account human rights and fundamental freedoms, the principle of proportionality, non-discrimination and, in particular, the need for transparent regulation. It is said that under such conditions and under such races a strict assessment this application may also be fully acceptable, but unfortunately in this way this article and this chapter has not been prepared. Therefore, the Ombudsman was also alerted by the information officer, the Chamber of Counsel and so on. And if any of the coalition or anyone watching us thinks, "Oh, these opposition MPs, they're against everything," I can say no matter what I think about the application, I find it hard to press for if I get the opinion of an information officer on the table, once again, the Ombudsman, the Bar Association and I don't know who else was against, the Institute of Legal Faculty of Criminology and, of course, the extensive opinion of the Legal and Legal Service that something is wrong here. However, it is not right in exactly the way I have now explained that there is no need for a reasoned intervention into human rights. I'm not going to touch the meaning of this app here, that's what my colleague Han was talking about. I agree with him in part if we want to catch those who are justified in being infected and influence not to infect others, then we have to count, if we think like this, that some will not land and leave the phone at home or not install the apps and then we can all set up a voluntary application and wait for someone who is confirmed to be infected, but if he does not use the phone nearby and I hope he will not. But what if he doesn't have a phone? In short, both substantive and legal questions are raised, which are very important and which are not answered today. Now that I have said that every human rights intervention must be weighed as it is, or is proportionate, and how it affects a person, because every right, including the right of a Member requiring all of us to install these applications, is so wide that it does not interfere with the rights of another person, it would remind us. But if we're talking about this, I would like to say that those of you who know me, that since I've been in Parliament, I am very, very careful and also as a lawyer, I am very fascinated by how one crisis will allow, not only in Slovenia, but the world will allow this interference in human rights with perhaps a legitimate reason to protect people's health, and I will only have to think about it for the end of this debate, without having the insane practical value of telling this debate the essence of a sequel to which, I think, one of my favorite sequels I've seen in recent years, is the title of Decline's story. I'm sure you've seen a lot of her. And what's the point of this sequel? In an imaginary country that is actually supposed to be America, because of pollution and many other reasons, it happens that very, very much fertility falls, that men are no longer fertile, and also women, if they become very, very difficult to produce children, they say they bring in and give birth to children, pardon, they are bred by men. There are problems in both sexes, and of course society is in a serious crisis. What now, the child is not, the children are dying, the abortions are becoming more common and so on and slowly, slowly beginning to interfere with human rights. First this, then others, then tell women not to go to work, because it's better to rest at home, they'll get more pregnant, and then they'll make it easier for men to quit sports, because it's all about sports, and then things get lost, and mic after mic, we get what this sequel is, to some totally totalitarian society, where most women can't have children, so they have hired some girl who took their own children, they put in some boarding schools because they're valuable. You know, they're precious, your children are precious, you understand, you can't have them, you can't take good care of them, someone else will take care of them. And this girl then has relations with these men, accompanied by their wife, who can't have children and live in a strange world where they can't read books anymore, where they can't watch TV, where they can't do anything, because everything is meant for one, or, above all, a very legitimate goal, that's that people can have children again. And if you can understand what I'm saying from this extreme analogy, of course our health is very important. But the human rights and freedoms for which we have fought and fought for generations, that we have reached the level that we now have, but they are also extremely important. And because of them, civilization is where it is and because of them we live the quality of life as we live it and is the highest ever since mankind existed. That is why I, and I assure you, will always be extremely careful when I interfere with human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Member Mojca Žnidarič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Unfortunately, I must say that in each package we have so far found an article around which we are arguing and overshadowing all other very necessary and important measures. I will therefore first focus on these measures from this package, which I would like to stress in particular. So the possibility of waiting until 31st is extended. 7. with the possibility that then the Government will extend this measure up to a maximum of 30 times twice a month, i.e. not more than two times a month. 9. I emphasize this measure. It is not allowed for the Government to adopt all other laws, as has been stressed and other measures. The important thing is also to compensate workers whose work was quarantined. The amount of these refunds is different. It is also important that 80 per cent of these costs, which employers will pay to their quarantine workers, are reimbursed to employers by the State. I very much welcome this option, or this solution, that it will be for all those who will be infected in the workplace to have a 100 per cent refund. However, I also agree with what was then changed with the amendment of the coalition, so that those who will go to the countries on the so-called red list, when they go there, will know that they are countries where the infection is greater, so on the red list, that then these people will not be compensated for the quarantine period. Because otherwise, there could be various plays. It is true, however, that life situations such as personal circumstances, death, birth of a child, other things come along, so that in these cases, under the Labour Relations Act, there will also be a possibility of 50 per cent compensation for wages. I also very much welcome these additional 31 million for additional staff in pension homes. I don't need to stress this, because we've had a lot on these subjects. If anything, this money is really in need of blood, and it's meant for it right here. The boning solution is also excellent. In fact, when we adopted the previous marriage, it is unlikely that none of us even knew what this 13. 3. this is the right date for the outbreak to start means that everyone who gives accommodation capacity had to be entered in two registers on that day. But all those who broadcast the capacity seasonally, 13. 3. have not been entered in both registers and now we are correcting this, so at any time regardless of the date all those who will ever be entered in both registers will be able to receive vouchers, so they will be able to cash in the vouchers. This is also a great advantage for all citizens, because they will no longer be concerned about which bidders will be able to take the vouchers and which tenderers will not. Now one more thing, well, one more thing I have to point out, is that there was a lapus that happened to members of the opposition who were sneezing at us to think about shorter working hours, because other countries are thinking about it, and we're not thinking about it. I would like to remind her that we have already accepted this in the previous third corona package and that the possibility of shorter working time has already been approved there by the end of this year. Something else about the app, so it's the biggest deal. Applications already exist in other countries, including the European Union recommends them and the possibility of using these applications, these are said to be checked by the Ministry now. And he has not yet developed his application, as has Ambassador Jani. Now, to be honest, in fact, I myself had some concerns about the mandatory use of the application, but after we essentially deleted the most controversial article in the SMC's insistence and insistence on the most controversial article 24 from the law, because in this article it was really inappropriate to process data, so there was no telling which data would be processed, who would process it, for how long. We have mainly withdrawn this disputed article so that I do not actually have any concerns about the application at this time. Article 29 states that the application is therefore voluntary and free of charge, but in some cases it is also mandatory under certain conditions. So, as we have heard, it will be mandatory for those who are positive, their positive infection is confirmed, and for those who will have a certain quarantine. There is another condition, then, that people own or use a suitable smartphone. Now that this is a suitable phone, we can also read it from the opinion it gave, that is, the guidance given by the European Commission in relation to data protection for applications. The Commission's message, this was already April 8th, and it will not be the fear of all those who fear tracking. In fact, in this way it is thought that the Bluetooth application will then communicate to other contacts if you have been in contact with anyone. So there's no way it's a location and it's the last one. And in this, so the European Commission's Communication writes for measuring proximity and close contacts, communication between low-energy Bluetooth devices seems to be more accurate than the use of geolocational data and therefore more appropriate. Bluetooth prevents tracking, so it prevents the latter. The Commission therefore recommends that Bluetooth communication data be used to determine the proximity. Thus, such applications, as we say, are already developing in Europe. As far as I understand, therefore, it is our intention to use one of these apps in such a way that I do not really, not alone and also call others, some major problems with this. I will also indicate below, and others are already where we are all being followed and followed. So in this case, the purpose, so every user will download this app via Google Play, this Google Store or Appstore Store, then form one key that should change every 24 hours, each user will store 14 days on their phone and each key will automatically be deleted after 14 days. I would like to tell you, I really want to say, once again, that it is not a matter of tracking. This application will not be used to track or locate those who will be quarantined. But what's the point; I know the people who were infected with the crown virus in our Ormož and what's the hardest thing when they were locked up at home and thinking about who they've been in contact with in the last fourteen days, and they've been calling each of these people and explaining to them that they should go to the test, make sure they're careful about the symptoms. Do you think that's easier? It's much easier to automatically send your phone anonymously to all your contacts you've been with and warn them. It was very difficult to do that, and I know that all of these people were warning most of them, so I don't know why we talk so much about people's mistrust, but that they'll leave their phones at home so they won't carry them. As far as I know, and I don't think that's gonna be enough. Anyone who gets sick wants to prevent the disease from their friends, acquaintances, anyone who has been in contact. And yes, the epidemic is over, but we're going to have to learn to live with this virus and modern technology is helping us do this and I don't see why we shouldn't use it. It is true, however, that I do not place all my hopes in this application as we have been told many times that it is different to think that we will solve everything, not at all, but by this option or by this legal obligation we can increase the percentage of the use of this application because we can see that in Europe, in countries where this voluntarily has 10% benefit, perhaps a little more, but also 10% now I have heard on the committee yesterday and even today from two secretaries of state, that there is also 10% of it, not so little and every measure, so this will bring us certain positive things. Here I have one article, the title is “Google has information about whether Slovenians are taking government action into account”. So Google has them, but we wouldn't trust our own country, and we'd be afraid to give that information. And in fact, the countries have asked for this data just by Google and all the data is how many movements have been anywhere, not named or named, of course, but this data exists. But now I've been getting my own list for the last few months, what my niece Mojca has already warned me, what I've been getting on my Gmail for the last few months every month, so because I've been using these Google maps where locations are stored, then I get every month where I've been, how many miles I've been transporting, which new places I've visited. 37% of my travel around the world this year, so actually Google and everyone else are really following us. But this app, which can help us to make the epidemic as manageable as possible, so that we can get to know all our friends, relatives, acquaintances, anyone who can prevent them from having more serious infections, and then we would be afraid of these apps. I think it's our job to actually encourage people to do this app, to do some propaganda with our own example, not to scare them even more than it is necessary, because when we put any other apps on the phone or on the computer, we do so many hooks, but I don't believe that anyone is reading anything that they're even accepting. So I'm going to download the app, and I'm going to upload it to my parents, acquaintances, those who don't know themselves, as some people have said, that they won't know, and I hope they'll be useful to us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u95	Thank you very much. In this circle he gets the word Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u96	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! We are under Article 7 or the amendment to Article 7 proposed by the opposition, with the exception of the Slovenian National Party. They propose limiting the amount of remuneration for the period of waiting for work, the amount of the average salary for 2019 in the Republic of Slovenia, calculated per month, the reduction for the contributions of the insured person. The proposal's been put in. I am sorry that, in fact, the proponents did not substantiate it a little more. But the debate went in a completely different direction than in Article 7. In the coalition, we thought that it was necessary to limit this compensation to the remuneration paid. However, we have decided that this ceiling should be determined by the maximum amount of monetary compensation for the case of unemployment laid down in the law governing the labour market. And this is now also the argument that we will simply not support this amendment in New Slovenia. I regret, colleagues and colleagues, that there are so many, excuse me, empty discussions about something that is not at all. Who knows the app? Nobody. Has anyone chosen her yet? Nobody. Are the specifications for this application given? They're not days. But what they're saying is that the police state is saying that this government, this coalition, is trying to control the citizens. Look, it's a delusion, it's not true. The apps were only recently, maybe a few weeks ago, developed, tested and given for production. There's more. You spoke, and I know them, French, German and so on. Unfortunately, we do not have a common application at the EU level, which would be a logic. More, some global apps because - why? – because we're talking about pandemics and problems all over the world are the same. And it would be nice, good, useful for us to have one application at world level to help protect or control the spread of infections. It's true. The second wave is here. The second wave is here and this government, this coalition has responded in a timely manner with intervention measures to prepare for the second wave. The second wave is here. Everyone was kind of waiting and we said the second wave was coming in September. It's all gone. It's all gone. These predictions are gone. Why? Because it's not a medical profession, it's not a criticism, nobody, science, nobody knows the detailed behavior of this virus. We can't find solutions in textbooks. And that's why, colleagues and colleagues of the opposition, these criticisms, yes, and now the fourth package, why you haven't solved everything, you know, we're not prophets. We don't know, we didn't know, honestly, we haven't known for 100 hours since that government swore we didn't know how to write all the solutions in the law, after 100 hours since that government swore on 13 March. And I regret that the Slovenian public, with the exception of rare exceptions, is, for example, here, colleague Maša, with the exception of rare exceptions, in the Slovenian public the opposition cannot bear the words, yes, and this is a good solution. This coalition, including us coalition party Nova Slovenija, we have talked a lot with the top of the economy, by the way, we have organized one meeting with the top of the Slovenian economy and asked them how the packages 1, 2, 3 have been intercepted, whose problems are the most currently seen by the Slovenian economy, what needs to be done so that the Slovenian economy does not completely cool down. We can't see any further, we don't know how the virus is going to behave. We can see that the forecasts for reducing the economic downturn at Slovenian, European, global level have also been too optimistic to actually increase this economic downturn as we expected. Of course human rights. Yes, of course. Yeah, but who in this room isn't for us to respect human rights? Finally, we seceded from a former country and wrote in a basic constitutional charter that, among other things, because human rights had been violated in the previous country. But I will not be teaching here now, but I agree with my colleague Ivo and some others, Comrade Polnar, for example, described very well. One of human rights is also the right to life, the right to health. But what are now the key objectives or key solutions to be highlighted in this anti-korona package 4, as we call this law more commercially? Prolongation of the waiting-for-work measure. Very important. This is what the economy expected of us and expects. Two key intervention measures have been adopted for the labour market in order to maintain jobs with legislative anti-koron packages – a compensation measure to compensate for the time spent waiting for work and a measure to subsidise the shortening of full-time work. Thank God the European Union has joined the EU with its Sure fund of EUR 100 billion for the EU as a whole. In order to maintain the employment of workers, the government proposes to extend the remuneration of workers on temporary leave for work, which has proved to be effective. Therefore, in this law we propose to extend the duration of the measure until 31 this month, by the end of this month, and we give the Government the opportunity to extend the period twice after one month. This can be said all through August and all over September. This seems fine not because of parliamentary holidays, but because the government is watching how measures are taken, what is going on in the economy and how the government can practically extend this measure at one meeting. Look, this package is worth €370 million. That's not what we're talking about. Like, it's nothing. Yeah, I agree that we're all gonna have to return this one day. How's that? Yes, so that we have as many jobs as possible, of course, the best paid jobs. It's the only way we can pay taxes, and it's good that we get as much taxes as possible. Finally, thanks to this minister and, of course, governments, we have achieved more efficient funding for additional staff. I will now skip one measure, this is the third very important set, a very important measure, which concerns additional human resources support for social security institutions in the public network and the Slovenian Employment Institute. Why? Yes, because we have learned that, in fact, in the homes of older citizens, we have a lot of human resources. This problem broke out during the epidemic and the smart government has to react. 31 million for this measure, and we claim that the protection of the elderly is a key theme of the ministry led by John Zigler the King and we are pleased that the government has listened to him and I will be happy to support this solution today. Now I have to touch the app that's not there. An app that's not there yet. Those who want to program the application must first get the specification, some instructions. It's not like that. The government said that, as I say, it would somehow warm up, if I may say so, for a German application. It is necessary to follow the rules that Google and Apple have and this German application can only be voluntary right now. We all know it or not, or we don't. There is little need to look at these matters, and God forbid that Members lay down technical specifications in the law in order for Members to determine, I don't know, for example, what development tool the application should be made with. It's all over. By the way, the Germans are using, I know how many have been installed by this app for 15 million, and I think it's the latest information, and it's not even in any law, which makes sense. But how many apps you've got, we've loaded up without a legal basis. What's free is free, and you go buy it, even if it's free. And we in Novi Slovenija will insist that it will be open-source, specifically this German as far as I know, is open-source, this has been said several times by the section in this case by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, who is a doctor. I hope we all understand what an open source app means. And once she's in production, when she's localized, celebrated and localized, then anyone who understands it a little bit will be able to read that code. Once again, don't God forbid that by law we demand that it be written, I don't know, in language C plus. I made that up. And today I heard here from my colleagues at LMSH that we're becoming a police state. You have programmers, let them read it for God's sake, study it because it's open and then see which police server the data will go to. And that's how you poison the Slovenian public with lies. I need to say this directly and sharply. What you've said is a lot of lies about the app, you know a lot about it, but there's no app yet. So it's best to talk about something that's not even there. And now I'm going to say two sentences about what it was, and it was, look. You can't see no. You can't see that. You know what that is? This is the data when the police followed me during the previous government. I think it's my show. Unbelievable. Most insights, you know, when this coalition was formed, and the other half of February early in March. Yeah. Look, if you want me to show you, I'm not ashamed. They watched me for 35 minutes before midnight. Yeah, I was at midnight watching me. Interesting. Very interesting. And here I very much agree with my friend and cousin Dejan jeedan, we were together on target, and colleague dejan said very well, if someone, the police, is following politicians, then this is the biggest affair in the history of a single state. I'll sign it three times. And because of this, colleagues and colleagues, we are going to make a lot of noise because we want to once root out democracy in this country. Okay. And you're condemning us further that there will be something that will make us a police state. I'm only talking about what was, what were the facts, what was black on white. And once in this house they shouted, and stopped the right hand. I don't have a problem with that, so stop her. Stop the middle, too. Stop, it's not a problem. Today, this joint task or slogan should stop the lie in this House. Let's stop the lie in this House. Because this rhetoric is being poisoned in the streets, and never, I accept any criticism, constructive criticism, supported by opposition arguments, because thank God we have democracy, parliamentary democracy, we have opposition, but I cannot or very hard to accept brutal attacks when it points to us and to ministers, even so far as we are criminals, members of criminal groups and more that we are murderers and that, this rhetoric is spreading into anonymous comments on online media. There are several articles on how some countries managed to control the spread of the virus with the help of the application and see, this application German, I have read some characteristics. Two phones will communicate with each other through protocol or through communication, through technology, more like a bluetooth. I didn't find it in Slovenia, in Slovenian, but it's in English, because it won't be a problem. Bluetooth for telebanes, it would be good for every Member to read that doesn't know exactly what it is. It is essentially a technology that represents or allows for a way of wireless data exchange between two or more devices. Today’s modern computers, mobile phones, digital cameras, and so forth have a large number of options for sending data, exchanging data with the help of bluetooth. The link shall be established by means of radio waves. There's no police server in here. Radio waves are between two devices, more specifically between the two telephones in the frequency range between 2.4 and 2.48 gigahertz and because of the use of the radio connection of the connecting device they do not need to be optically visible, nor undirected towards each other. The connection works there up to 10 meters around the device. Some say that somehow there is a significant negative impact on health in terms of bluetooth communication technology. That's not true. This frequency is also used by a microwave for heating food and is also used in this area by a heart stimulant. The microwave emits power of 1 kilowatts, 1000 watts. The Bluetooth device in standby is a million times smaller, so virtually no health hazard. And colleagues and colleagues, we in Novi Slovenija will support these solutions, which are foreseen here. We want and expect the Government to have a happy hand and that it will also notify, normally, that it will inform the Slovenian public when it will and if it chooses an application. As I mentioned them, the German word, which is the closest to me personally, can only be voluntary, because if we write down in the law that we will require this German application to be installed for special cases positive to Covid-19, we will violate Google and Apple rules and pay millions of fines. Only a madman could go into such a solution. No police server will be involved, none. And please don't spread the lie that we want to oversee the citizens. If so, then tell us what information we will collect and please do not judge by the method of your own skin. Do not judge by your own skin method. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see it's an interest. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u98	Thank you so much for your words, respectable and respectable! So there's a fourth antikron package ahead of us, and the ground debate I'm listening to here in here is quite similar to the previous antikron packages, where there's been a lot of one talk, there's a lot of opposition, there's a lot of some instigation issues, and so on, how it's not going to be good, how it's bad for everyone, and now we see that people are very happy older, retired, young, unemployed, social, all in short. Wherever you go, whoever you're talking to, everyone's happy with the government's actions. Now, in this package too, the extension of the waiting period for work at home, and the vouchers for students, students who will be able to benefit, will also be able to make use of our citizens' services, which were not registered on 13 March. In short, a lot of good suggestions that just need to be welcomed. And people can't wait and they're looking forward to it. You get involved in this poor application, and some Members are full of different police states, terrors, I don't know, pursuits, in short, some of the oddbian methods that have long survived, and I hope they're gone, I hope, even though, as fellow Member Horvat has shown before, we were also Members of yours, so you've been following us on what we're doing, where we are, who we're talking about, what we're talking about, where we're going to go. All these files are with everyone who asked them, and I can show them to you if you're interested. But you probably don't have them yourself, or you probably didn't control yourself. You're really the one who talked about this, the police state, about control and so on, the last one, but really the last one who can talk about it. Let's be aware of that. What you did with us, you probably did with other people, with all citizens and citizens, but they probably didn't ask for these insights. Which is why, of course, I can't even trust you. But I trust the Minister, I trust the government that prepared this package. And I know that this app will only happen when it's done and I hope it will, because it's the only thing that's gonna happen to people. If you put bracelets on people's hands, those who are infected, I'll bet you they walk around wearing long sleeves in the middle of the summer, just so you don't see it. You know, if we don't take one serious step to infect her, we won't. But if the government hadn't offered me this solution, then, of course, you would have listened to these applications from some chairs by the opposition, yes, because you haven't done anything, because they already have all the apps, the whole world, Asia, Europe, they all have apps and we don't have anything. Then we'd hear it. But it does? Here, here, they're sneezing. Here. So, let things go in the right direction, don't poison people, especially young people, with lies, with intimidation, don't scare people, not scare them before an application. Young people are educated, including the middle generation, and we also need to make sure that the elderly are well-informed and that we will make useful use of this matter. Young people today upload thousands of apps to their phones. Look, I don't know, snapchat, whatever, there's maps everywhere, there's tracking everywhere, whatever you press, and what? - No problem. It's all right. But when we talk about the app for the last one at COVID, that kind of problem. Look, you have a lot of problems with this government, too. I don't understand why you don't rule. Why aren't you in the government now? Why don't you take these measures? I don't even understand what you want? You had a government, you could rule, you could take measures, you could work for people. No, you let people down. And he does? And including all these clients and with Levica, the super-compartment government client. You let people down. Now what do you want? - Now we'd rule again. And that's all you keep saying. I don't understand it at all. Why are you doing this? Why would you want to join the government if you said you wouldn't rule? We will also spend 31 million on human resources to strengthen homes for older citizens. You spent 74 million on studies, of which there was no human resources support. And what do we hear from you now? Not enough personnel in nursing homes, not home for the elderly, not enough rooms, not enough beds, not taken care of, you say that through. Both social democrats and LMSH, as well as Levica, as well as the SAB. Why would you say that if you didn't take care of it yourself? Now we have a ready action, because we will strengthen these institutions so that we can help those who want help when we constantly listen. We also listen to the community of social institutions, onward, now we have prepared a good measure, and again there is no age or how. In short, I don't know, I don't understand at all when I'm listening or whether it's someone ordering you, or whether you are, I don't know who put this together for you, how can you even say things like that in here in the National Assembly that are, I don't know, I don't know how to tell him. People don't understand any more. You've been to the government. You let the government go, you didn't want to rule. You let people down, you threw the gun into the corn. We're working, we're preparing measures, we're doing a good job with coalition partners, you've all got your hands offered, we could go along, we could help, we could advise, we could hear from you, but apriori against everything we do and we can take whatever we want. You endanger the health safety of most of you, who talk about it illegally, spread the disease, disregard the laws, measures, the streets are full of masks, protect others to walk and break all possible laws and moral and written and the Constitution and violate everything, endanger public health. I have also seen here in Parliament a few Members, even those who come from a medical profession without a mask of joy, who can help me. And then you lecture us here about the police state about not knowing any violations. In short, who else would believe it? So I just suggest that you say hello and support these proposed measures when they are the right ones. People can't wait to be accepted, and I believe you would immediately confirm them if you weren't, I don't know what the opposition is. Are you constructive or whatever? In short, don't be afraid, nothing will be wrong. I am very glad that you are not in the government, and that you are no longer following us and the people and citizens, and you are not following with these police covert acts that you have done. We have, of course, the evidence we have obtained. And I hope that something like this will never happen again in our country. By gladly supporting all these measures, as well as this application for tracking and bridging the covida in Slovenia, we will follow the developed countries to use digital technology, which is full of our mouths. And let's get a little sober, and don't scare young people again, and don't spread lies here from Parliament, because then it spreads on the street, into the media, and into social networks. You are the initiators, role models, or generators that then do this to make the state as it is in the country. Catastrophe. Fortunately, Slovenia wakes up. They don't believe you anymore, and they're very happy about it. I am very pleased that the situation is finally being rectified and that the total coalition partner and coalition and government are gaining effect precisely because of your actions. That's why we're going to have to think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word is Marjan Pojbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say that I am pleased and proud that this Government has already prepared a fourth package, a fourth counter-crisis measure in terms of covida in its three months. The first three have been caught and, of course, the results are also appropriate. People are satisfied, the economic picture in the country is being corrected, we have prevented a quarter of a million people from staying at the employment institutions and so on with these anti-crisis measures. I will not list all these positive effects that have been achieved with the first three packages, so this quarter is also very, very important. The fact is that we heard 90% of the application debate from the opposition parties today. That's really amazing. It's like this law only talks about the app. And what I find far more problematic is the deception of people. Deception of people without every argument or lie. If you remember back when the former government of Marjan Šarc was formed, during the election campaign it was said that no one should go to the government with the Slovenian Democratic Party because if the party of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Janez Janš were to rule, the pensioners would not receive pensions, the students would not receive scholarships and such negligence. Lies like that have been used. And look what happened now. The government of Janez Janš with all these four coalition partners, three coalition partners, gave the pensioners an addition. A supplement that has not been received in history since the existence of Slovenia itself. In 2004-2008, pensions increased by 37%. And this one, I'm going to say to the criminal society, and I can't say any more about it, but he's trying to convince people that the government of Janez Janš and the coalition partners in this government are something bad. Finally, they do excellent work and work well for most people in our society. And it's rumored that with this app we're going to introduce repression, the police state, the tracking, and I don't know what else I've been listening to today. Dear colleagues, let's think about this kind of debate. Let's imagine. None of this is true. Perfect lies. If you have listened a little before me to my colleague Jožet Hrovat, Horvata, I apologize, Horvata, when he made very clear all the key things, and at the cabin he showed a document where we see what a country in which the key word has a lost machine of a deep state, a lost machine of a deep state, and who stands for it. Who's giving them the stats? Certain parties who are in this House. It's incredible, it's simply incredible and it's unreasonable. And I once again call on Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, those who now listen to me, not to believe, do not believe this deception and lie. This application is intended to do nothing but help solve the problem we are facing, and this is COVID-19. Nothing else. And I hope that Slovenians and Slovenians, our dear citizens and citizens will accept this, accept this fact and no longer believe lies and deceptions. And dear colleagues, today we have spoken or the opposition has spoken, and I do not know how much, half the time, human rights, human rights and human rights. But for you, dear colleagues and colleagues who have led this country for the past 10 years, is human rights, as I mentioned last time, when Jankovic was written off to 60 million euros and his sons, and on the other hand for 2,000 500 euros to someone who was unable to pay the obligations he had at auction to sell the house? Where were you, fellows who are now sitting in the National Assembly to raise their voices and tell us where human rights are? And according to your assessment of human rights, someone should explain it to me. Somebody explain it to me. And you put society in a situation, if you ask most simple people, they'll say that the rule of law is only for those who have money. Legal country for those who have money. Are these human rights? This is the society you're talking about, democracy, a fair society where human rights are respected? And when you walk among your people, ask them if you can solve one thing today, if you don't have a connection. Have you ever asked yourself that? I wonder that every day because people call me, say if there's nothing we can do if we don't have a connection. [[Incomprehensible]] The shame of the society we live in is extremely inappropriate. And you're talking about human rights. Where have you been? I'm asking you, tell me where you've been? And you're talking about human rights. What human rights are these when only the rich and those in some narrow circle of this, as I said, a stray machine of deep states have the opportunity to do what they can think, and on the other hand the majority of people who survive only from month to month. What is this just state, what human rights? And you're talking about human rights intervention, instead of being the first ambassadors, we have to be all of us here in the National Assembly, ambassadors of human rights, and defend all of the same things as those who have 280 euros in pensions, including those we forget and even say that if Janez Janš's government doesn't get pensions. See how extremely corrupt some individuals can be, how far they can go and in the end people now see that this government is not at all bad, that this government is great, that this government has helped all the structures, but it has done something, and this is important, and this is what hurts a lot, started preventing abuses, thefts, cutting pipes that have gone to individuals who have no idea how many 50-meter yachts around the sea, abroad, and I don't know where they are, but thank God for finally that someone has stood up for the poor nation of Slovenia and this government and this coalition has done it, is capable and that is why it is so attacked. So every little thing you try to abuse to break the coalition, every little thing. But when you had the opportunity to prove yourself, you did — what — throw the rifle into the corn and the tail between your legs. And now someone, Mr. Sarec says that now he would set up a government that would be a government in some, I don't know, you can't understand it, I mean crazy, look, crazy, really crazy. And now, to continue. By means of this law, we refer to four key things, namely the extension of the waiting period, the establishment and payment of compensation for a certain quarantine, institutional protection measures under the Social Protection Act and the mobile application for information on contacts with the infected. However, I may have a few more sentences regarding the situation in nursing homes, which the Government has now decided to give an additional €31 million with this law, in order to get better human resources back, in order to be able to pay, that is to say, to improve wages and all that is necessary for people in these institutions to work and correct the injustices for back 10 years, or I do not know how many years that have not done anything in this area. I'm saying it again. The government has also done this in three months and has not allocated 74 million euros for some soft content for a clean theft of money, but is committed to helping those who are employed and improving the conditions of those who live in these homes. And another 1,100, invited 1,100 beds and 5 houses from the state budget. And finally, I am listening to most of the opposition parties that you have announced today that you will not support this law, because that is incredible, you will be voting against the fact that the government, this coalition, these coalition parties are earmarking for an alarming situation in homes for the elderly of €31 million and you will not be under the pretext of some application of this law. I don't know where you live, where people live. And finally, we found that this app that's so much talk about today, and this app has nothing to do with these lies and deceptions that you're talking about. And what Joseph Horvath showed today is that in this country we have a Judgment, which looks at as he has shown how many times his record has been looked at without a legal basis and you are talking about human rights. True human rights are considered to be the current opposition or the previous coalition, but not all others are. And I hope we can get to the point where we can see who's been looked at. It's been taken a look at me, too. I have evidence. And we'll clear it up by whose orders why. But such approaches must be adopted, this deep country, to destroy those of us who want to help people, and we want to prevent them from stealing, stealing and all these things in this society. Is that supposed to be stopped? It's amazing where we came from in this society and you're talking about human rights and you're talking about I don't know what. And in the end, you are opposed to the law that people can't wait for. That's nice of you to say. See, determine and pay the remuneration for a certain quarantine. Do you object to that? Do you object to that? Do you object to a possible extension of the waiting-for-work measure? Do you object to that? Yes, you do. How are you going to tell your employees how you're going to tell your employers? But you want us to have 250 thousand people at the end of this year at the Employment Institute. And if you do not support this action, it can be built for us. The second wave comes and is a fact and then you oppose the institutional protection measure under the Social Protection Act, where the Government allocates €31 million to help resolve the situation in nursing homes. You're against it, say it. You say that, you object, and you are the opposition talking about the social state. Please don't do this. I'm asking you to be sober for once. It doesn't matter if you like it in SDS. This has nothing to do with it. Work for the benefit of the people of our citizens and citizens, and we should do so. Whether you like this SDS client or not. We work for people, we prove from day to day, but with hard work. Nevertheless, your great conjecture proves that we are capable, responsible, and know what we want. And we want to make this Slovenia different, better, especially the Slovenia of everyone living in this country, so that they will feel good and not the first and second-class, but that everyone will feel good and that everyone will be able to live normally and they will love this country. This is the key we need to be able to put together. And we are all responsible for this in Parliament. We're ambassadors of this, no matter who's in which party. There are too many important things here, but with some lies, they're trying to get some political points together. Believe me, this is the wrong way. Slovenians and Slovenes have enough RTV, they have enough POP TV, they have enough of it through both public media, and the Dinner Youth and the Diary, and so on. They've had enough of this. I talked to a lot of people now that they said, "We can't watch anymore and we won't watch what they're saying because they're lying. There is no more truth, no more honesty” or, to say no to lies, they are deceiving. I think this term is better, they're deceiving. They're very one-sided, very biased, and that's not right. And that's not right. We in such circumstances, this Government, which still has Covid-19 along with very difficult to implement all that is essential for the country to go in the right direction and that the country will go in the right direction. That's what we proved. View the results of Europe, America and so on, what they say about Slovenia, successful, excellent, thank God. And we should make the most of this in the economy, but not by interrupting it in here, but by seducing it, by lying and so on. Absolutely take advantage. And we would do something good for our citizens and citizens. And in history, when we had the price of gasoline, oil, just like we have now. How many times has the government reduced excise duties, because it has given the word that it will do differently than other governments have done before it, and it does, and people see it. You don't think people see that? And please, don't be exorbitant. The opposition must be, thank God, because you're for pointing out things that you think are wrong. No problem. I know that today, however, you will tell almost all the opposition parties that such a law as it is, you will not support it, and then the question arises to me why you are here. Are you here in your personal name or on behalf of a machine, a deep state or are you here in the interest of the people? That's a personal question to me. And I ask that someone ask me this question, which is asked me by me and most Slovenes and our citizens and citizens who love this country, this is the same question. This question will have to be answered and the moment will come, I know when it is that moment and believe me, people can judge who is working for them and who is the one who is using them to live as a god. That's a fact. That is why I will support this marriage, I am proud of the Government and this coalition, and I am confident that this coalition will hold back until the end of this term and prove what can be done if the real people with the soul and heart, who have the goal, are clear, and know they have the program and they know what they want. This coalition and this government can do it and will do it, I'm sure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u102	Thank you very much for taking the floor. Dear Minister! Yes, according to the predecessor, all I have to do is draw attention to these heavy billions of people you're boasting about or boasting about, of course, I'm reading, and I'm going to read what I've done today. All we have to do is point out that PKP 1, you have left out a number of groups that are still without funds today. PKP 2, liquidity guarantees, today Finance, if you open them, and you read them, no bank has made any guarantees yet. Germany started to provide guarantees long ago in March. Ask the economy, I'll pay you back. I don't know where you got this information from. Ask the economy how it feels today? PKP 3, culture, completely omitted. PKP 4, which we are considering today, will focus today on this area. Yes, the information that can be obtained about individuals by means of information technology is thus unlimited. That's a fact. However, the use of technology must be subordinate to the rule of law and not the other way around. Dear Minister! I'll call you back. I am monitoring the domestic expertise on this proposed application, which is supposed to cost EUR 600,000, which will be the basis of my debate today. I submit that, under the basic assumption of the mass use of technology in the form of a mobile application, it is possible to achieve these objectives in a way that does not reveal any personal data and does not allow anyone to abuse applications, to discriminate against infected individuals, to follow them or otherwise to intervene in their privacy. This can be done by acting decentralised, important, only decentralised. When monitoring the movement of exclusively those individuals who have not been proven to have SARS-COV-2 infection and collect data on the locations visited by the infected person completely anonymously on the central server during a professionally justified period prior to an infection. Persons who have been proven to have received a quarantine decision or who are obliged to isolate themselves on any other legal basis could not use the application, of course, I have to explain. In most cases the infection is spread by individuals who do not know and cannot know that they are infected because they have no symptoms of the disease COVID-19. If such individuals are proven by testing the infection, they shall be duly given a decision or instructions for isolation. Given that such a decision is legally binding and that the State has in place and with the highest legal acts harmonised levers to control compliance with the provisions issued, we must expect that isolated individuals do not pose a risk of spreading the infection and that the application does not make sense. However, we can assume that during a period prior to the proven infection, the latter was already able to spread. In this case, in order to effectively determine the extent of the spread of the infection caused by the infected individual to know where he was staying during the said period and how many infected people were being held at the same time. Information on the locations where the healthy users of the application are kept shall be kept for a certain period of time in order to ensure privacy and in encrypted form only in the personal device and user memory and shall not be communicated to anyone. A user who has been proven infected shall send a history of sites where it has been retained without personal data, identification code or any other data on the basis of which it could be identified in encrypted form on a central server. Healthy users periodically take over cumulative data on locations where infected users are kept. However, the application compares this data to those stored in user devices. Based on the matching of applications, the risk of the user being infected and advising him to take further action is calculated. At the same time, the NIJ may, by means of the collected data, identify the local density of infection and, on this basis, define the hotspots, dispersion dynamics and other parameters it needs to deal effectively with the epidemic. The mechanism described does not provide for any manipulation of personal data of individuals; privacy is guaranteed to users. Applications communicating with each other using wireless data, such as bluetooth, are always subject to possible manipulation. It is a matter of triviality for technically subordinated persons to identify the device which emits the signal and consequently the individual who uses it. This allows them to create databases of personal data on infected persons, as such applications also provide information that their user is infected. Applications which send user location data to the central server together with user personal data pose a significant risk of manipulation by the central server operator, the authorities or any corrupt natural or legal person who can benefit from this. An additional argument that the use of the application for infected persons does not make sense is the fact that the location service is possible with not too much effort to overstretch and will certainly be served by unfair individuals. They will also respect the Quarantine Decision without application. The use of the application could be mandatory when travelling abroad, but with a slightly changed functionality, when returning to Slovenia as evidence that the passenger was not in the country in the so-called red list, only a certificate of application, other information, microlocations, routes made and so on would not be sufficient to record applications abroad. Finally, I believe that the application code should be open, freely accessible to all users and should, of course, be assessed by the information officer and, of course, by the Ombudsman before use. This is the opinion of the local profession, a number of experts who are monitoring what we are doing here. And that's what I wanted, Minister, to give you here today and think about it. Perhaps, however, domestic experts can do something good and can be an example to the rest of us, but not to devote EUR 600,000 to it, such as some outside information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The word is given by the government representative Janez Cigler King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u104	Thank you very much. As some data on the labour market and assistance to vulnerable groups under PKP-1, 2, 3 and now proposed 4 have already been exposed to the debate, I believe that I will best respond to some of the concerns with concrete data. All the packages so far, as well as these quarters, are focused on improving the social situation of the most vulnerable groups of the population. The government has therefore already helped the next population groups in the package. Solidarity aid and allowances were paid to 51 000 480 self-employed, farmers, associates and religious servants. So they received a basic income of €350 in March, €700 in April and €700 in May, totalling €83 million. 302 thousand 242 pensioners were paid a one-time solidarity allowance of up to €300 for pensions up to €500, €230 for pensions between €501 and €600 and € 130 for pensions between €601 and €700. 190 000 779 children and 125 000 402 beneficiaries of the child supplement in I to VI. The income class, these are families with one or two children, was paid a one-time solidarity allowance of EUR 30 per child. 29 thousand 880 families were paid an allowance, a solidarity allowance for large families, such as families with three, four or more children. Those with three children received a solidarity allowance of EUR 100 and with four or more children of EUR 200. A single solidarity allowance of 150 euros was paid to 49,000 839 recipients of cash social assistance or beneficiaries of a protective allowance, 52 thousand 180 students, 17 thousand 118 beneficiaries of a child care allowance, 4 thousand 41 beneficiaries of a maternity or parental allowance, 1740 beneficiaries of a parental allowance, 805 foster parents, 49 beneficiaries of a partial payment for lost income. And I must have forgotten one of the vulnerable groups. And last but not least, for tourism, Slovenian tourism was given to every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. two million people. We believe that these measures have identified and responded to the plight of vulnerable groups of the population who were most at risk because of their low income or because of the deterioration or risk of their financial material situation during the coronary crisis. The measures taken were intended to help the labour market, to maintain employment and, on the other hand, to improve or maintain the social security of vulnerable groups. By waiting, waiting at home, we have helped to maintain almost 280,000 jobs and we are already helping to maintain around 30,000 jobs through a short-term measure. I believe that this information best sums up the effects of our actions taken and now proposed. But I suggest that the mag. Geršak with MJU also responds to some of the concerns expressed regarding the application.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Gersak.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Secretary of State. [[Incomprehensible]] There was a lot of debate about the app. I would like to point out that the development or adaptation of the application itself has not started yet because it is pointless to start developing something, which we do not know what else will be adopted in the law. So from this point of view of preparation, of course, we see, as I mentioned, German application, Polish, French, what are the applications that are made on some open source solutions on this Apple, Google, Framework and others. Now, so that we can probably talk about some of the numbers of adaptations to these apps, from a few million, here we are in this ranking, we'll see how then. If the application will be available on GitHub repository, anyone who knows this will be able to take it, anyone will be able to test it, translate it, this is the property of open source open source systems, will be tested by MJU information security experts, it is called penetration test, it is called a simulated cyber attack, an authorized simulated cyber attack on such an application. This is essentially a permanent procedure for all applications made available to citizens in the public administration, because it is simply necessary to maintain some standards of cybersecurity. Will the app for android and Google, when it is available in Google play, be available in Apple Stores, that means that these two Venders basically need to confirm the application that it is also suitable from the point of view of their standards in order to be published. Of course, what this publication lasts from two days to two weeks, here somewhere, we see that there is some practice, this application will be available in the initial phase if it is available, if we do so, on the websites of the state administration, the websites of the MJU. So that maybe this, all of my app descriptions refer to a German application that works on a voluntary basis, namely, there is double volunteering, the first is voluntary installation and application entry, the second is voluntary up load, voluntary notification, I will say, if a person is positive on the COVID virus, on the coronavirus. Now, how does this German app work? There's been a lot of debate on this subject, a lot of misunderstanding. The fact is that the only body that can say so deanizes the data that is actually infected is in this case the German applications, for example, to introduce it, is the NIJ, because they only have a database, a register where people are named, and therefore they also have a legal basis. So all this from here to the NIJ server at MJU is a matter other than this exception that I mentioned earlier, the case is anonymously anonymized, in fact it doesn't know who my phone was in contact with. [[Incomprehensible]] I get from this phone this random code, which spins every 15 minutes, my phone stores it, saves how long it's been in the reach of this bluetooth that broadcasts this code, saves the power of decibels, says from this calculated distance, which is of course correctly established, are also certain technical conditions if the bluetootha are talking over a table, across a table, over some medium, depending on the density of the medium, it can be this distance varies, this absolute. My phone saves this, then this person I've been in contact with, maybe the next day, three days later, gets a positive test, voluntarily inserts this positive into the app. That's what he's bringing in. Enters its own code that it receives during the test, enters it into the application and then receives this data via the application NIJ. Don't look, that's the code. Then they go - now this is how the process is set up, after the talks - to look into your database. This code right here. Okay. It's actually this person is infected and then here manually. It is said that this is not some automatic procedure, manually confirmed by this person at NIJS that this person is infected. Only then does it become an infected key base, where there's no list of names who has anything, and the phone numbers, and the e-mails, it's not in there, it's just keys. This key gets marked. Yeah. It doesn't. It is entered into the infected key base. And then what does my phone do? Regularly at intervals, this can be set up, one day, a few hours, goes to this database, pulls the entire database onto the phone and compares the key that's infected with my data that's on the phone and finds out that yes these keys match, but with this key I've been in contact for five minutes at the distance of 73 decibels, which means three meters, I don't know, I'm making up now, and from this calculation the risk. Maybe it was 20 minutes. Maybe it was an hour. This means that the level of risk of infection is calculated from 1 to 3, low, medium, high and based on this I will get instructions or I can go read what NIJ recommends in this case. So that the data is not actually anonymized. The administration is pseudo-animated. The only access to this, I will say, could have connections between the NIJ and the NIJZ, but here there is a need for a certain confidence that the body is operating according to the legal basis it has. So maybe I'd stop at this place and if there's any more questions, maybe keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word has Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u108	Thank you. What I am pleased to say is that we are actually in this, I will say, the last part of the debate even to the measures contained in this law, including all measures relating to economic recovery, measures for citizens and citizens, measures to extend waiting for work, compensation for quarantine and so on. I am glad that this is proved again and again by trying to round up on the opposition side just one or two articles, and then the whole discussion revolves around it and little is said about what is good in this package. And there's a lot of good. Also, because the competent minister is present, that is to say, these 31 million to ensure or cover a certain staffing deficit that the opposition has been pointing out for a long time. I'm sure these measures are good. It was essential that they were quickly adopted, and that is also why some adjustments are being made back so that they can be even more effective. What I would have warned myself is that somehow we have also proposed this package in the SMC, and the Ministry has also set up some measures for the meeting industry. I believe you've met many of them, too. We have also talked about this several times in the past weeks, it is one part of the economy that was first stopped and which is still stopped and will probably be for quite some time. By way of assessment, in the SMC we assess that it is still necessary to pay attention to this part and to have the measures set out below, as the meeting industry will definitely need them. Now, if we have listened carefully in recent days and also read contributions concerning the epidemic, that is, if we have listened to epidemiologists, the leader of the expert group, if we have also read media contributions that talk about the latest knowledge or medical knowledge of the virus, some facts are somehow no longer in favour of talking about another wave, but we are talking about the presence of the epidemic or the virus at some length. What epidemiologists say is actually what's happening now is not another wave, but it's something that we're going to have to learn to live with. Also this latest information that I found yesterday that scientists have now found that it is not only a risk of transmission, a dropover on two meters, but that these tiny micro drops with traces of the virus can be held in the air for hours and 10 meters and so on. There are some things that will probably be further developed and will have to live with – but live in a way that we simply will not be able to afford to stop the country in such a long time as we have now done, that is, stop ourselves, stop the economy, stop education, stop health care or redirect it to just one area and so on. It won't work that easy on the long run. And for these purposes it is certainly necessary to find solutions that will find this new path. This means probably, so in the SMC we imagine, a set of multiple solutions, not just one, but several different solutions for different areas that will have to work on this long term. And many European countries, including those that have not yet introduced applications, are thinking about it. Of course, it is said today that the application is not effective, you can talk about many things. The fact is that the longest-acting application used between European countries has been operating poorly for three weeks. In three weeks, I believe it is impossible to determine how effective it is or does not help. However, modern technology is certainly a tool that we must use in such a situation. Because if we don't, that's exactly what we're gonna get. I think that in this room we must be so many answers not only to ourselves but to citizens and citizens that we are aware of the benefits of all possible measures. Of course, not to be mistaken, but any measure that can or is potentially part of a solution that will control or mitigate the consequences of the epidemic that we will have to live with is certainly a must. And if we're talking about not being effective, then it's just proof that it's not as aggressive as some people are trying to present today. And since this is the way it is discussed, I would nevertheless allow myself to read the text that is on our tables today, which we accept and which some are so strongly opposed to, while they are so misleading, they do not realize what the consequences of such deceptions will be, precisely the ones you are now talking about, that the application will not be effective because it will not be borne by enough people. And such discussions with such misinformation will just cause people not to use what would help them, which would be more important to their health and health insurance than anything else. And if I read the 27th article of the bill we have today on the tables that discusses the purpose of establishing and operating a mobile application. The first purpose defined is as follows. Protecting the health and life of people. I don't know what's at stake here. Second purpose. Informing mobile users that there is a risk of being infected with SARS-COV2 because of the fact that they were close to another user of this mobile application, which was positive for the virus or was quarantined or self-isolated. That's the point. That users were informed among themselves. Third. Awareness of users of the mobile application about the symptoms of the virus, i.e. fever, cough, difficulty breathing and measures to combat the spread of infectious disease, thus this possibility also exists in the application to alert signs and measures. And the fourth purpose. Recommendation of mobile application users to immediately establish telephone contact with the selected personal physician or emergency medical service in case of obvious symptoms characteristic of the virus infection. Why is this purpose defined as it is? Because it was an incentive or incentive to introduce this application, for the use of this application the medical profession, not the police, not the prosecution, not know who, the medical profession, the epidemiological profession is the one who proposes and wants to help themselves in this way with modern technology to control this epidemic. We in the SMC, as the Secretary of State has already explained many times today, have also been able to learn about these things, and we have also looked at the recommendations of the European Commission published in the Official Journal, in which point 4 of the third chapter states the following. For this purpose, information on the proximity, therefore, not the location, could be needed. To measure proximity and close contacts, communication between low-energy bluetooth devices seems to be more accurate than the use of location data and therefore more appropriate. Bluetooth prevents tracking, therefore the Commission recommends the use of data on bluetooth communications or data generated with equivalent technology to determine proximity. And this is this app that you're so afraid of, and it's already been told many times today, so this app is not being followed, it's getting closer. How close, this will be prescribed by the Minister responsible for health, how close it is and will be prescribed on the basis of the findings of the profession, not any other profession. And it has also been said that there are three, four I don't know how many different applications, of course we don't yet know which one we're going to choose, which one will be the most appropriate one, but for Slovenia it would be good to know that this is an application that is coordinated between several countries, also because of the period in which we are in view of crossing borders, that we are somehow alerted to citizens and citizens of different countries to these contacts. And Germany actually already notes that it is not necessary, give the app technically I do not know how it is completed, if it helps at least a little to fight the virus and it is therefore right to use such an application, because the experience of epidemiologists is such that it actually reveals that people are very hard to remember or remember a few days ago, or a week ago, where they were all, who they were in contact with, how they were in close contact and so on. And also the scientific Oxford, which have been involved in the development of some applications, have very precisely defined what this application can do to help. And as the first objective of such applications they have indicated can help to stop or slow down the epidemic. In the second row, it controls the movement of patients to hospitals, which is certainly important, even for such a small country as Slovenia. In the third objective, it has been defined to help people to live as normal in spite of or with the presence of an epidemic or the possibility of infection with the virus. And as a fourth goal, to somehow gather data for the medical and epidemiological profession to help them identify all contacts as quickly as possible in those found to be infected. And that's it. These are all the benefits. The colleague had already pointed out the situation we were in at the beginning of this epidemic when even countries had to ask Google for information on how citizens adhered to the measures because we did not have their data. But we know how Google or Facebook or whoever controls our data, and no one ever asks who we trust, what we trust, what we allow them to access, what they will do, what they will sell, what they will process, for what purposes, and so on. Today, however, it has been repeatedly said that this application does not allow users to be tracked and does not allow users to be identified. And Google then provided interestingly accurate data on how Slovenians and Slovenes behave. He even distributed how much we held or held on to shopping centers, restaurants, museums, and libraries. In particular, he defined how much we've been to food stores, markets and pharmacies, you can imagine. As long as we've been in parks, outings, in nature. In particular, he defined how much we were in public transport stations, how much we were in the workplaces and how much we were staying at home. Very precise numbers. And that's all they have on us, not the medical profession, not the epidemiologists, as I said, but the global corporations that do practically anything with it, and none of us wonders when it imposes what the advantages are and what the disadvantages of the app we put on the phone are, but we just want to have it because we have decided and we don't think about other things. As stated in the SMC, we support helping ourselves to control this epidemic even with modern technology, just because we will not have to take as drastic measures as we had to in the first phase. We do not want to stay at home again, to stop the economy again, to close borders and so on. That's not what we want. We need to find another way. And these measures, which now follow, must be this second path and together as a whole must be the most optimal solution for us to continue to live with this virus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u110	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues sent, honourable fellow Members, representative of the Government and all others a nice greeting. Today, what we are experiencing is a rerun of what we have already seen, what we have seen, the fourth time we have seen. We adopt a law that is useful in individual definitions. But always, honourable Members, this "but" is essential. If we listened, at least listen to the opposition's arguments, we would not be sitting here today because most of the things in this law would have been adopted. And what is even worse, even today, with great respect for our country, and especially for the people, in the opposition parties, we have put together a number of common solutions, including some individual solutions. It will happen again like it was the first time, the second time, and the third time. You won't even listen to us. You will vote against it. And then you'll be surprised that we already have a crown of 5, a crown of 6 and a crown of 20. And this is going to be this rerun, this rerun, and in the end, it's just a tragedy. This is the first thing I want to share with you. Secondly, I don't understand or understand myself, but I don't want you to do this to impose repressive measures on beneficial laws. Separate, come separately with a repressive action to discuss it if we need to accept it, get our support, but if it is excessive and unnecessary, you do not get it. This contaminates a useful matter, useful suggestions that you often draw from us, but only in the second or third step. I myself have listened to what you have said about the mobile application, and at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, I have read on three pages the opinion of the information officer, who has not even asked for an opinion, and is responsible for the protection of human rights in this area. I have read the views of European institutions, I have read the solutions in individual countries. And a lot of arguments say you're on the wrong track. But you're not allowing us to vote against what's harmful. On the other hand, to support what is beneficial. And there's something that you've probably noticed from today's debate. In a mobile application, trust in authority is extremely important. When Angela Merkel presents her people with a voluntary, very limited application, she inspires confidence in her people. Then I wonder if your government is building trust in us. A government where, as a member of the National Assembly at this time, I do not know whether or not we have an internal minister. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I want people to take my word for it. And if the highest representative, almost the highest representative of the state, says: “I have given up irrevocably and my resignation has been accepted by the President of the Government.” I may be naive. I'm guessing we don't have a minister anymore. Then I open up the Slovenian media, and I find that we probably still have the minister or not. Maybe you'll explain it to me. You don't have that confidence in me right now. I look at the web address, I see our Prime Minister of the Super Society, Orban and Vukic. The most advanced democratic leaders of this world. Where did we come in these bad three or good three months? Do you thus give me confidence? You don't trust me. All I see is a lot of effort, a lot of energy you're putting in to convince us that this app is absolutely necessary, and it's not. We had the first wave, we limited it to completely different measures. And allow me, because I mentioned Orban, I, honourable Members and honourable Members, would really like at least 10% of this energy that you invest in a mobile tracking app to think about how Prekmurke and Prekmurci feel when your Orban publishes maps of the great Hungary, where Prekmurje is no longer in Slovenia, you are completely silent. Your Orban. You're quiet! Silence hurts! I'm telling you why I don't trust you. And I really ask you to give energy to focus on what is important in Slovenia right now. And we, Mr Vice President, are celebrating the 101st anniversary of the accession of Prekmurje Slovenije this year, and you are silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u112	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. I'll stick to the agenda. The anticoron package 4 brings a number of measures. The temporary waiting period is being extended. The employer receives 80 % of the remuneration from the country, which significantly reduces the burden for the employer. I'm pretty sure of that. In companies where work is still severely reduced, they do not need to be forgiven for this measure, but they can send a worker on hold to work at home. One of the key measures is the financing of additional staff in nursing homes over the next two years, while the previous government has earmarked 74 million euros for long-term care studies, of which we have nothing at all. Our Minister, Janez Cigler the King, has set aside 31 million for extra staff in nursing homes. Our Minister Janez Brickler King is indeed a king among ministers. Today's the biggest talk is about the app. Take your phones into your hands and see how many applications you have installed, from the online bank, various social networks, Google maps and more. And now some of you, particularly the opposition Members, are having problems with the exact application that would help inform our citizens to protect them from infection. And secondly, this app would help all epidemiologists. These spend a lot of time on finding as many contacts as possible and not being tolerated. What is interesting is that such an application is used in Germany, France, Italy, Poland, the Czech Republic, there is no problem. Only one of the three European countries does not use this application and among them is Slovenia. It should be repeatedly emphasized that this application works via Bluetooth rather than on the basis of location data. Look again at your phones and check how many apps you allow to monitor your location and your movement. And now you have a problem with this app that doesn't even use the location, but the contacts are recorded anonymously and with Bluetooth. Also, the application would not record contacts with, say, random passing users of mobile apps and also users that are, say, 100 meters away from you, I don't know, but only those contacts that are considered to pose a risk to the infection by reason of their professional origins and distance and duration. You have problems with this app that would start anonymously and you say we will introduce a dictatorship, but for you dictatorship is when you are in opposition and you are no longer in power. There is no dictatorship in democracy that the parties in the government change every so long according to the result of democratic elections. You know what dictatorship smells like? The dictatorship smells like this. Questionable views in personal maps during the previous government, during the government of Marjana Sarca. Tell me why someone from the Ministry of the Interior looked into my personal records or into my personal folder just half a minute after he looked at the folder of our leader of the delegation. Views have also happened with the Ministry of Defence, right in the time of the previous government, the government of Marjan Šarc. This, my dears, is an introduction to dictatorship, not an antikoronic app that works through Bluetooth. Let me also remind you of the words of my predecessor and former President of the National Assembly and President of the Social Democrats, who said in the Tarč broadcast on 31 January 2020, I quote: "If this is true, this is the greatest political affair in the history of Slovenia alone." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Janez Moškrič has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present. I would first like to present my support for the law on a few points that I think we may all agree on. It is my heartfelt wish that we agree that the public authorities must take care of their citizens. Second, they must take special care of natural and other disasters. This has also been the case throughout the history of mankind. That's when there was an accident. And we're going to say natural or other accidents, they've been informing, we've had city guards, and then they've had trumpets and stuff. Then we came for the sirens, unfortunately the most in the wartime. Even so, we have preserved the mermaids until today, even though we know that we can only test the siren in practice every first Saturday, but the firefighters who need it most have another technology, so-called invitations. And secondly, I hope it's heartwarming that we never have to. Then the following fact, my right is limited by the right of another. That's what I think we all agree on until this point. Then we move on to the action of this government, these poor four months after the epidemic and then the continuation of the story with COVID-19, which is a world story and is not the story of the Republic of Slovenia. Here all government supporters agree that the measures were swift, that the measures were right, and precisely because the measures were fast and correct, today at the fourth package, we are primarily talking about an application that is supposed to help contain the spread of this virus. Thank God we are not talking about the need for safeguards again, that there is a need for respirators, that there is a need for a hospital workforce. Thank God to this Government healthcare workers and all those who were in the first so-called first battle lines in this country did not turn their backs when representatives of this government came and asked for medical needs. This is of crucial importance to me and therefore my trust and support for this government. and these laws which are intended for this purpose. Why do laws interfere in many areas? Because we also have problems in several areas. It has been said, in the fourth package, that one of the key points for me is that, in order to solve the problem in the homes for older people, particularly in the field of human resources. Homes have been fed, this has been warned for many years by those who are competent. And today, by this law, 31 million rapid interventions. Two things to solve. So this problem in the homes and also in the Employment Office, we hope to reduce the number. Because everything that is addressed in the field of the Constitution and the laws is not a solution. Today we've heard that they are, that's not the solution, that's not the solution. Of course, it's not a solution. The Constitution is not the solution either, but it is the help we live in one society. The laws are how we regulate help, how we regulate society. Traffic signs, assistance as we move, move within certain locations. This is all help, and this law is also the help to curb the spread of coronavirus, and at the same time the solution to some other problems that have arisen in the past and have been even more pronounced in this epidemic. And then to report, there were no credits, there were no credits. Yeah, thank God they weren't, because, you know, it turns out that we have quite a few good companies that didn't use these measures because they knew we'd try to do everything we could to be independent. Those who were imprisoned at the beginning of the very first week had, but they took advantage of certain advantages that were already linked to the old case and were closed when they took advantage of it. S.p. Incarcerated after one week of epidemic, means something's really wrong with your s.p.A. So that it's all about aid and also about the app that you're planning, which is what you're attacking right now. Why? In each coronary, there are fewer things you can attack or not attack with, so to speak, you break your trust in power, that was said. So if there's something voluntary, it has to be about trust. And what is the key problem with the opposition? As soon as there's confidence in this power. People have confidence because they have seen, because even the world public has seen certain measures that have been positive and some you can't, nothing to say they haven't been. And that's why you want to now on this app so-called to network this infection to bring credibility and confidence in this authority. I hope that you will not, especially with those people who are trying to think with their heads, because there are already certain applications and certain tools that this country has also served through operators, we will send one nice warning to all who come from abroad today, of course through the operators, and I myself received it on Monday, when I return from abroad to pay attention to your health, so that there will be no misunderstanding, I was with our northern neighbour, who was completely safe on Monday, so that I am also here among you. But we were well informed by our operator through a request from the state. Of course, if we were using this app, it would be a problem because our data operator would, so this app or this system is based on where we're going in the space, but what the law provides is just about the power of the signal that this bluetooth device is giving us, which is usually also connected to other devices that we have in the apartment. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Alice Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. So, this law prolongs certain measures, saves those things that have been shown at this time, that is, issuing quarantine decisions and so on, but of course the most exciting has caused the application and it has to be said that the application will be voluntary, compulsory only for those who are infected and those who have a certain quarantine. As you know, they use the app in Japan, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand and most European countries: Austria, France, Italy, Germany, Czech Republic, Norway, Switzerland and so on. And we've been hearing about the repression, the police state, the dictatorship all day. And I ask those who make such flat-rate accusations to tell me which of these countries I listed today is repression, the police state and dictatorship. [[Sign for the end of the debate]] This is such an exaggeration, we are trying to do something so that there will be no need for drastic measures and people to be imprisoned and so on, you oppose it as opposed to everything we propose. If all these countries are according to your dictatorships and the police states, then you really need to act. But of course this is the madness you're going here. [[Nak for the end of the debate]] And, of course, I will support the law and I am sure that the app will work as it was presented and I think that many more people will voluntarily decide to upload the app to make sure that they know [[Excluding microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u117	I'm afraid the time has run out. Gregor Perič has the word, and if I'm not only wrong 8 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. In these eight seconds, I can only say that some of you have made this application very systematic and planned for the whole of Slovenia one complication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I guess not. I therefore conclude the debate on the amendments to Article 7 of the SD, LMŠ, Left and Sab groups. We move on to Articles 8 and 10. Since the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ and SD to Article 8 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 10, we will discuss them together. I therefore put to the debate Articles 8 and 10 and the three amendments of the members of the Left, LMŠ and SD. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is from Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u120	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. to Articles 8 and 10. [[Incomprehensible]] In the third paragraph of Article 8 the words “reason” shall be added to the words “and a written declaration that undertakes to maintain jobs for workers who are temporarily unable to provide work due to the consequences of the epidemic and for whom the right to reimbursement of payments paid under this Act shall apply for at least a period equal to the period of receipt of the refund or at least three months after the expiry of the right exercised by the application.” Now I'm going to explain our amendment. It is simply a matter of stipulating that, in the process of exercising the right to reimbursement of compensation paid at the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for employment, the employer must also submit a statement stating that he undertakes to maintain the posts of workers who are temporarily unable to provide them with work due to the consequences of the epidemic and for whom he enforces the right to pay the compensation paid under this Act. The declaration shall oblige the employer applying for this application to obtain the right to reimbursement of wages to maintain posts for those workers for at least a period equal to the period of receipt of refunds or at least three months after the expiry of the right exercised by this application. However, as previously mentioned, this article also refers to Article 10, paragraph 6, which reads as follows: “The employer who receives or receives funds under this Act must reimburse the funds received in full if he violates the relationship contained in the declaration referred to in Article 8, paragraph 3, of this Law or if, during the period of receipt of the compensation, the temporary waiting period, the contract of employment is to be terminated for a commercial reason for the employee.” But here's the thing. As you mentioned earlier, this is a matter related to Article 8 and it is also the fact that, in fact, our view of Levice is that all state aid to companies should be primarily designed to preserve jobs and not to subsidise profits and personal income from corporate owners. It is therefore necessary to prevent the recipients of State aid from paying the profits, the business performance prizes. Members of management and speculated on buying up their own shares. It is a reasonable prohibition, I think that you all agree with this, I think also on the right, which makes it impossible for state aid instead of expanding the production and maintenance of old jobs or creating new jobs to be translated into the pockets of business owners. Employers receiving State subsidies should be forced to behave in a responsible and cost-effective manner to the benefit of their employees. And even in Levica we have been so far, this must also be acknowledged by all those who have just read our amendments, even in our amendments very economically, it is said that we can only give as much as possible to those who are most in need, being called socially endangered, and of course being called workers and workers, including traders and traders, and all through these DSOs and hospitals and health institutions, and I think it is right that just at the time when this crown crisis is that we are all behaving, and in particular the government, the power economically, and that every euro is indeed a very smart and proper turn and dedicated to those who are most needed. That's what we call the weakest in our society.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because he doesn't want to discuss anything else, I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to 15. Articles 17 and 51. The amendments of the members of the Left, LMŠ, SAB and SD to Articles 15 and 51 are also substantively linked to the amendments of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to Article 15 under Article 3 and Article 17 and will therefore be discussed together. So I'm putting it to 15. Article 17 and 51, as well as the two amendments of the members of the members of the Left, the LMŠ, the SAB and the SD, the amendments of the members of the members of the Left, the Left, the Left, the LMŠ, the SAB and the SD, and the two amendments of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. Mr. Korazzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. Once again, our amendment reads Article 15(3): “A worker who has a school-bound child who has been quarantined by him and is therefore unable to perform work in accordance with a contract of employment shall be entitled to a salary refund of the amount specified by the law governing working relationships in case of temporary inability to provide work for a business reason.” As we have recently had a very good case, I think that there has been a provision in Škofja Loka, where the entire school class has had to be quarantined with a teacher, namely that the amendment adds a provision that introduces remuneration for workers who have school-bound children and who have been quarantined in this regard, it is said, if they have to protect their children at home. In this case, I think they must, and the problem is that they lose most of their salary. And also the events of recent weeks have pointed out that there is a serious problem in cases, as I mentioned earlier in this school class, and so parents are often forced to save their jobs, take forced leave and take advantage of it, and then lose this leave for the rest of the days, or even child leave, let's say at sea. And in this case it is right to allow them, as previously mentioned, to be paid by this contract to pay them in wine as provided for by the law governing working relationships. It is said that their compensation will be paid in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss Mr Koražija again, please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u124	I'm sorry. You said we'd be here together by 48th and 51st, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u125	I've read who they are. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u126	Thank you. As before, today is just the main topic, I think the main word is the app. [[Incomprehensible]] And unfortunately, there has been some confusion also triggered by the ministries, which I would also like to refer to, but I will not talk about this application again. The fact is that we should go to a broader social discourse or a broader social debate, especially because we are essentially moving through a very thin line of human and constitutional rights. And I think it is right that these matters should be carefully reconsidered and processed. I must admit that I was not satisfied with the ministry's response to the rumor that there is no telling what application. I think that if we put this into some anti-korona package or marriage, I think we should be the first ones here today to find out who, what, why it will manage it and how it will work, I will say handlalo or work. We are in favour of this 48th paragraph being deleted. In fact, Article 29 of the bill provides for the mandatory installation of a mobile application for persons who are quarantined or approved by a positive sars cov-2 as the information officer has warned, as well as mentioned previously in the debate and many other stakeholders, the mandatory installation of such an application constitutes an invasion of privacy which is unconstitutional and disproportionate and is the one where we must all be concerned and we must all imagine and stop when we talk about constitutional rights. [[Incomprehensible]] In addition, there is a group of people who simply will not load their applications due to objective circumstances. I want to warn you, look, now I don't know how much you're on the ground, but I think you're still Members quite a lot on the ground, I'm just lucky to be moving east to come to the center of Slovenia and actually on my way to meet a lot of other people, and I'm very grateful for that, and actually I'm telling you, a lot of people really don't have these smart phones, even older ones, and there are a lot of poor people who don't actually have to buy a smart phone, and in a case like this, you want this law, or even this rule to put them through this anti-Cormon package, will be those who don't have or who are already discriminated against, and even with dignity in the sense that they're poor and that you're hard to do anything, you'll be extra fine with it because they won't be able to put applications on some phone that they don't have, and I think it is really one big nonsense. He apologizes, I believe it may be with some good purpose in some way, but when we talk about these things, at least I personally place myself in the role of the weakest one or the lowest one on the scale, only then can we think in a direction up. And if we don't know this here, then we better not be here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, New Slovenia and Desus. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I also conclude the debate on these amendments. I am putting to the debate Article 25 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, New Slovenia and Desus. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I also conclude the debate on these amendments. I am putting to the debate Article 35 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, New Slovenia and Desus and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I also conclude the debate on this article. I am putting to the debate Article 38 and the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 39 of the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB groups. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I also conclude the debate on this article. I am putting to the debate Article 43 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, Nova Slovenije and Desus groups. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I also conclude this debate. I am putting to the debate Article 44 and the amendment of the MPs LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 48 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups Levica, LMŠ, SAB and SD. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I am concluding the debate on this amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 50 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, Nova Slovenije and Desus groups. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I also conclude the debate on this article. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law amending the Law on Intervention Measures for the Control of the Epidemic of the Commodity-19 and the Favourability of its Consequences for the State and the Economy within the framework of the stricter procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 5 Members and Members with the first signed Maša Kociper. At its 23rd session, on 24 June 2020, the Finance Committee considered the draft law as a working body. Since, after the discussion, the committee of articles of the draft law did not adopt the second consideration of the draft law at the meeting of the working body was completed. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats Predrag Bakovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u128	The common feature of all government anti-Korona marriage packages was the forgotten social groups and the needs of some people who remained unaddressed. When the opposition or the critical public noticed such a weakness, the government ensured that everything not included in this package would be included in the next. Despite the fact that the fourth package is being adopted today, no measure has yet been taken to provide at least the healthiest and most income-stricken with access to emergency protective equipment. The adoption of this proposal would ensure that all pensioners and vulnerable groups are entitled to laundry protection masks, which are relatively effective protection against the spread of the virus, while at the same time, particularly for income weakness, the acquisition of protective equipment also entails not a small cost. In the country, due to the lack of safeguards and its non-transparent purchases, almost obsessive conditions have emerged. The government has always claimed to have purchased and successfully acquired life-saving protective equipment. Therefore, it is extremely unusual that not a fraction of the equipment and masks purchased were and will obviously not be used to distribute them to the most vulnerable, such as pensioners. The masks, even if they are mandatory again, must be made available for personal use by each person. As is known to all, even government purchasers have had a number of difficulties in purchasing inadequate equipment and even the most vulnerable should, in the view of the Government, be able to find themselves on this chaotic market and get the right masks for themselves. It is even more unusual for something as basic as the right to a mandatory protective mask to be recorded in a bill. A proposal for a measure which could certainly be implemented by means of a government regulation or a decision has not been adopted by the Government for so long as it has been tabled as a legal proposal by the opposition of the party. And even when this possibility of action was offered to the government, the government and the coalition did not accept it, but on the committee they marked the legal proposal as inappropriate, and unfortunately the legislative procedure is ending today. Thus, a proposal to provide pensioners with adequate laundry protection masks and a sustainable solution to at least a fraction of the problem that we have found ourselves in did not receive support from the government majority. With this, we have been given the opportunity to the Members and Members to define ourselves by vote until the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! Members of the Party Alenka Bratušek recognized the pensioners as the most health and economically endangered group associated with the coronavirus. They therefore proposed that a sufficient number of protective masks should be provided to them at the cost of the budget. In the Modern Centre Party's parliamentary group, we do not doubt the sincere intention of the proposers to do something good for a particular social group. It is not a coincidence, however, that this proposal is addressed only by pensioners who have been identified as their preferred electorate. We agree with the proponents that pensioners are a risk group, but the Government and Parliament have already adopted a number of measures to mitigate the consequences of the Coronavirus epidemic, including those aimed at improving the social situation of the most vulnerable, including the solidarity allowance for pensioners at three different levels, depending on the level of their pension. This solidarity allowance was just adopted in order to financially mitigate the consequences of the epidemic, which are reflected in the increased cost of living of the cores of certain mandatory measures such as the cost of purchasing protective masks. Unfortunately, this short marriage proposal with only three articles was not prepared consistently, as the Legislative and Legal Service also pointed out in its opinion. The material thus mixes the concepts of hygiene and surgical masks, which the proposer wanted to replace with a subsequent amendment with washing masks. The draft law also provides for the inclusion or additional commitments of both the Department of Freight Reserves and the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance in the process of purchasing and distributing protective masks to pensioners. These two new responsibilities would be completely beyond the other competences of both institutions and beyond their logistical and human resources capabilities. In order to carry out the new tasks, such additional staff and premises would be needed. However, it is crucial that, according to our assessment, the marriage proposal also constitutes inconsistent addressing vulnerable social groups. We believe that there are other economically and socially vulnerable groups, such as the unemployed, the recipients of social assistance, the large families, but they are not covered by this law. However, there are also medically vulnerable groups, all of which have a weakened immune system, for example, cancer patients, chronic patients, and protective masks are even more vital to them, but the law does not address these vulnerable groups. For all these reasons, we cannot support the SMC Group of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u132	Your Honor, thank you for your word. The new government anti-Koronian law, proposed by the SAB Group, initially stipulated that pensioners would also provide 15 hygienic protective masks each month when they paid their pension. With amendments to the SAB, they proposed that each pensioner be given three wash masks. The masks would be provided by the Department of Freight Reserves for the first three months and then by the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. The intention to provide protection masks or protective equipment to the population is welcomed by the Levica party, and we believe that the circle of beneficiaries of protective masks should be extended. The fact is that the COVID-19 virus is more disproportionately affected by older people, but the risk group is not limited to pensioners. The National Institute for Public Health also includes patients with specific types of cancer, severe asthma, rare diseases and congenital metabolic errors, including pregnant women with severe cardiac impairment and others. The applicant's argument about the poor material situation of the older population is unfortunately still valid. According to data for the previous year, more than 245,000 pensioners receive pensions below EUR 600. The average age pension last year was €658, but we must also point out that several people receive higher pensions than 15,000 pensioners per thousand 500 euros. If the purpose of the law is to finance masks for those who cannot afford them themselves, then it is not clear why they should finance masks from the budget for the wealthier pensioners, but not masks for more than 300,000 workers who receive incomes below the minimum wage. The proposal is also problematic in terms of the allocation of powers to state authorities for the acquisition and distribution of protective masks. In the first three months, the masks were to be supplied by the Department of Freight Reserves, and the question is whether the Department of Stocks would be able to provide the required number of masks in the first three months, since after the end of the epidemic the responsibility for the purchase of protective equipment was transferred to health homes, hospitals and nursing homes. PPIZ has no experience in the supply of masks. Its primary task is to provide decent pensions, not to supply protective equipment. In Levica, we don't want the PIZ to turn into a new dealer or mass distributor. Socially endangered pensioners should be provided with more than just charity in the form of three laundry masks. In Levica we are primarily committed to raising the lowest pensions to the level of short-term minimum living costs and to raising the guaranteed full-time pensions to the level of minimum living costs. We are also committed to raising the rate of contribution for employers. [[Incomprehensible]] Employers pay significantly less, employees' contributions accounted for 45.9% of total income of STIZ in 2018. The employer's contributions are only 27%. Nominal extraordinary reconciliation of pensions, says we are also taking up or, above all, we would also like to achieve nominal extraordinary harmonisation of pensions for 5.7% of the average pension, i.e. the same amount for all that is most just. At least there would be a partial repair to the current state of low and unevenly distributed pensions. We are also committed to the long-term integration of social and health policies in the field of care for older people from investment in infrastructure to human resources policies, which will ensure a sufficient number of staff, which will also be paid fairly. Thus, we provide as much pension as possible to our pensioners, and I think it is also time to do so and not just talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The competent national working body of the National Assembly rejected the proposal for a law amending the law on intervention measures to combat the COVID-19 epidemic and to mitigate its consequences for citizens and the economy proposed by the colleague and colleagues of Alenka Bratušek, so today there will be no vote. Why did I vote against it on the committee? That is why, colleagues and colleagues, since the National Assembly has already adopted the law on intervention measures to combat the COVID-19 epidemic on 2 April this year and to mitigate its consequences for citizens and the economy. Article 57 of this Law, which was adopted, defines a single solidarity allowance for pensioners. This is said to be the National Assembly on April 2nd, but of course a few days earlier, the coalition and the government have decided to pay a single solidarity allowance for pensioners. Of course, we leave this freedom to the pensioners to spend this one-time solidarity allowance, to apply to things they decide for themselves. In order to improve the social security of low-retirement pensioners, payment of the single solidarity allowance for pensioners shall be fixed. In the cumulative, this amount was approximately 66 million and a half. The beneficiaries or beneficiaries of the single solidarity allowance are, I can say, since this allowance has already been paid, pensioners who receive a pension of up to EUR 700 or less. And allow me to repeat the scale, if I may say so or the amounts prescribed by the law. The beneficiaries referred to in the preceding paragraph, i.e. those who have pensions of up to EUR 700 or less, shall be paid a single solidarity allowance for pensioners or paid in the following amounts: pensioners receiving pensions of up to EUR 500 shall be paid a single solidarity allowance for pensioners of EUR 300. Pensioners receiving a pension of between EUR 500.01 and EUR 600 shall be paid a single solidarity allowance for pensioners of EUR 230. In addition to the third class, pensioners receiving a pension of between €600 and €700 are paid a single solidarity allowance of € 130 for pensioners. Taking into account the amounts I have indicated, the single solidarity allowance for pensioners shall also be paid to beneficiaries of disability insurance benefits who are unemployed and who have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. Some then asked us "I, why also the pensioners, but what changed for them because of the epidemic". Of course, a lot has changed, and that was why it was a wise move by the government or coalition and a good decision by all those Members and Members, which we also confirmed on April 2nd this year. Thus, pensioners received a single solidarity allowance paid, i.e. pensioners with the lowest pensions, and therefore we felt it was reasonable to reject this law on the committee and so did we. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The text is by the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek, mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. On 6 May 2020, we tabled an amendment to the law on intervention measures to combat the COVID epidemic and its mitigating effects on citizens and the economy, which the Committee on Finance, as a parent of the labour force, considered 24. 6. 2020. The main purpose of the law is to provide free masks to all pension beneficiaries. At first, we proposed 15 protection masks for single use, and then we fixed the proposal with an amendment to 3 wash masks a month. Thus, every pensioner would receive 18 laundry masks by the end of the year, from July to December, amounting to about EUR 660 000 per month, by the end of the year around EUR 4 million. This is negligible in all the billions of amounts we use to deal with COVID-19. We have tabled a proposal at the time of the declared epidemic, but we believe that a special measure for the elderly is more than on the spot, especially in the light of the fact that the epidemiological situation in our country is inevitably deteriorating again, as we in the SAB, as we thought it would be. Therefore, at the time of the end of the epidemic, we immediately wanted clarifications and professional grounds for such a measure. We have not received the latter, so we wonder whether the cancellation of the measures may have been premature. Again, in the media, contributions on hot spots in nursing homes are reflected, and the community of social institutions draws attention to the inappropriate treatment of elderly people. This is unacceptable, but let's make this a topic for another session. We have tried small steps in the SAB, which we believe would mean a lot to many. With this proposed novelty, we want to ensure a sufficiently large number of protective masks for all pensioners. The latter are double-judged. A risk group. First of all, there is a high likelihood that a possible infection will be transmitted more difficult or even fatally. Secondly, many pensioners are socially vulnerable. The package of 50 single-use masks costs up to €57 and represents a huge cost to pensioners, which is in no way negligible to them. We are convinced that a number of people who have received a solidarity allowance for crises have not used this to purchase emergency health needs, but for vital costs of living such as deposit, food supplies and the like. [[Incomprehensible]] Since we do not want the elderly to save on account of their health, we propose, as already stated, that every pensioner be provided with protective masks free of charge when receiving a pension. We are convinced that every time a measure is declared mandatory, the country must also ensure that it does not have a significant impact on the social situation of our weakest members of society. In addition to this, we have proposed that the masks should be provided by the department of supply reserves for the first three months, and only then by the institution of pension and disability insurance. During the crisis, the Department of Stocks took over the task of distributing protective equipment, and we believe that it has created sufficient stocks to provide masks to beneficiaries for a period until the law is in force for a period of three months, and at that time the Pension and Disability Insurance Office may be adequately prepared for a new task which it would have undertaken after three months from the Department of Stocks. Finally, let me add that she's with 1. Seven. 2020 has begun to apply a provision which provides for pensioners over 65 years of age, war veterans and disabled persons as beneficiaries of free transport in cross-border line passenger transport. In view of the fact that the compulsory wearing of masks in public transport has never ceased and even more, a masking measure has been reintroduced in all public spaces, and at the same time we are getting closer to the new wave of the epidemic, which is also evidenced by the new anti-korona package, we are very disappointed that no one in our House has supported our proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, colleague Robert Polnar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In the physical struggle to stop the spread of the virus and in the economic fight to prevent a financial disaster, what has been systematically rejected and neglected for many years is necessary, and this is planning. After 4 months of experience with the epidemic, it became clear that the State must take control if it is to respond adequately to the crisis. In the epidemic we are faced with, success, more specifically, is the victory of the community over the disease, depending on mutual trust. The state cannot do everything on its own, just as its inhabitants cannot protect themselves. It is misleading to believe that the balance between maintaining the economy on the one hand and safeguarding health on the other. There's more to the game than just money. Citizens decide whether to trust institutions or not. The skeptic doubt is still in place, but would our world as we know it even exist if it were different? The Group of Members proposed legislative changes to ensure that pensioners were provided with free protection masks until the measure of compulsory use of protective masks in closed spaces ceased to apply. They initially proposed to provide hygiene masks and then modified the proposal with amendments to the supply of laundry masks. In the first three months, the masks were to be provided by the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Freight Reserves and later by the supplier of the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute. The assessment of the financial implications is little more than €6 million per month, assuming that the price of the 3 euro laundry mask includes distribution costs. The applicants presented their calculation of the price of a 30-cent single mask when they were treated on the parent’s working body. The difference between 3 euros and 30 cents is obvious and doubts about the actual availability of such a low price are justified. Wearing protective masks as a condition for preventing infections is essential and necessary for all citizens and citizens. Members of the DeSUS Group point out a series of measures to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic on citizens adopted by the National Assembly and carried out by the Government. Among them was the payment of the solidarity allowance for pensioners up to EUR 700. Thus, more than 300,000 pensioners were paid allowances totalling EUR 66.5 million. This fact cannot be overlooked, especially in the light of the provision of additional resources for purchasing protective equipment to those people who need such resources most. It is true, however, that each individual is fully autonomous in his or her personal decisions on how state aid will be used. In this context, it should be pointed out that the State has provided exceptional aid in the amount of monthly basic income, including to self-employed persons, farmers and religious servants. The value of such payments exceeds €80 million. The aim is to target budget allocations where they are most needed. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that there are issues where party interests need to be overcome. Such objectives cannot be achieved by relying on slipstream demagogies but on artificial behaviour. It cannot be achieved by considering the division of prey, short-term likeness or personal prejudices. Practical logic and common sense require that society be linked to achievable objectives, but not divided by specific interests. Today it is clear that the economic consequences of the crisis will be difficult, that the state economy is not only a supply and demand, but an economy also assumes social stability, organised authority, institutions and social values. Health and death can't be a matter of party overtures. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the proposal for legislative amendments ended with one vote and 11 votes against. Only the proposer and no one else voted in favour. This is also the most important message of all matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party has the floor. A colleague of Susana Beautiful Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. The SAB Group has tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal to amend the Law on Intervention Measures to End the Covid-19 Epidemic and to mitigate its consequences for citizens and the economy. The bill refers to the provision of protective masks for pensioners, in the original version of the 15 hygienic protective masks that they wanted to fix in three wash masks at the pension per month with the amendment on the parental committee. According to their proposal, the protection masks would first be provided by the Department of Freight Reserves and, in the coming months, by the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. We must admit that this is a kind, populist proposal, but of course we are asking ourselves about the seriousness of the proposal. The applicant stated that the price of the washing mask was 30 cents. After reviewing the offer of laundry masks online, we can quickly find that prices are moving from 2 euros forward. It is also very difficult to imagine a seamstress that would sew a mask for 30 cents and thus cover all the costs of material, meaning goods, dresses, elasticities, wires, as well as the costs of depreciation of machinery, electricity and finally the costs of sales and distribution. Of course, a certain quality is expected for the washing mask, which is a minimum of 50 times that we can wash it and that we can wash it at 60 degrees. It is true that the higher price does not mean better quality, but the quality of the washing mask for 30 cents can, of course, be rightly asked. However, in the Slovenian Democratic Party and the entire coalition, we thought of the pensioners, especially those with the lowest income and for that purpose, we also proposed a solidarity supplement in the past. Pensioners with the lowest pensions have thus already received a total solidarity allowance of €66 million, all of whom have pensions of up to €700. The solidarity allowance was essentially intended to cover the additional increased costs incurred by the COVID epidemic. All those who have received a 300-euro solidarity allowance could, according to the SAB proposal, provide as many as 1,000 laundry masks, which is, of course, more than a proposal from the proposer. We also have a very difficult view of the implementation of the proposal, namely that the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, in addition to everything else, should also be engaged in the procurement and distribution of masks. We have not supported the SAB proposal because of everything on the parental committee of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc. My friend Josie Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u142	Thank you very much, President. Many groups have been forgotten by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the Act on Intervention Measures for the Control of the COVID-19 Epidemic and the Mitigation of its Consequences for Citizens and the Economy, or in all the first three anti-Korona packages. And now there are not enough effective measures in the fourth package to provide security and assistance to the population and the economy. Above all, this is why there are so many additional proposals and additions or amendments to this law. With the novel proposal before us today, the proposal seeks to ensure a sufficiently large number of protective masks, which are mandatory by government decree. To all pensioners, the latter belong to the so-called risk group, which is highly likely to carry a possible infection more difficult or more fatally. The proposal by the proposer is certainly in place, as this provides basic protection against the virus of one of the target risk groups. We must be aware, however, that pensioners are only one of the many risk groups at COVID-19, and we must note that such a measure would discriminate against other groups, particularly groups with chronic diseases. Studies say that 70% of people are present with one of these chronic diseases, to a large extent also in the proposed group of pensioners, but not only in them. We are talking mainly about heart disease and blood vessels, we are talking about cancers, diseases such as pulmonary diseases, asthma, and a very large group of people with diabetes. Only diabetes in Slovenia is estimated at 150,000 people, from this point of view we wonder whether it is then discriminatory not to include all groups in this proposal. After all, we wonder why, in all efforts of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we do not provide all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with a protective mask, as this would work preventively and effectively enough to raise awareness of everyone in order to effectively approach the spread of the virus. In addition to pensioners and groups with chronic diseases, social groups in the population as a whole are unable to provide protective masks for such or other reasons. Such an approach by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for effective containment would certainly be in place, as it would cover the entire population. Although we do not object to the proposal for protective masks to be intended for pensioners in the Marjan Sarca Group of Members. However, we want them to be dedicated to all citizens and residents of Slovenia. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should reconsider this possibility and place it appropriately in intervention legislation itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u143	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY — ANOTHER DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE ACCOUNT OF THE COURT OF AUDITORS IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to the draft law, the Committee on Finance proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, my colleague Robert Polnar, for a further explanation of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u144	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! At its 23rd meeting, on 24 June this year, the Committee on Finance considered the draft law on the Court of Auditors submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption on 10 January this year. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the LMŠ Parliamentary Group has tabled amendments to Article 35 of the Law. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained in the introductory explanation that the draft law under consideration does not provide a comprehensive approach to regulating the issue of the Court of Auditors. While the Government supports a broader and more specific regulation of this area, the proposal also follows, but in view of the extensive comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service to the National Assembly, it proposes that the proposal be rejected. She stressed, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, that a new draft law would be drawn up in the second half of the year, which would fully address the issue, would also take into account comments. She pointed out that the Court of Auditors could carry out its work smoothly under the law in force. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stated that the Service had drawn up a written opinion and presented some key comments. From the point of view of compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it highlighted in particular the provision of Article 20, which extends the audit competence of the Court of Auditors, that provision would also allow for the review of the legal persons of private law. It further presented comments from the service on the procedure for the exercise of audit powers which could lead to unequal protection of rights and highlighted some derogations from the legal system. The President of the Court of Auditors explained that in preparing the amendments to the legal framework for the functioning of the Court of Auditors, the aim of enhancing the effectiveness of the operation should be pursued in particular. He stressed that they would always cooperate with the National Assembly and the Government in the preparation of appropriate measures. With regard to the proposed law under consideration, he pointed out in particular that it would significantly shorten the procedures and that the work of adopting the necessary amendments would also be carried out smoothly under the applicable legislation. As Chairman of the Committee, I have proposed, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the draft law on the Court of Auditors is not suitable for further consideration. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee presented their views in such a way as to reach a proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, as well as for the content of the proposal for a law. With regard to the content, it was mainly pointed out that it would update the legislation in force and improve the effectiveness of the procedures. On the other hand, the debaters drew attention to the extensive comments made by the Legal and Legislative Services, and expressed their expectation that the current Government would approach the preparation of a new version of the legislative proposal. The debate also raised concerns, mainly from the perspective of interventions in parliamentary autonomy, the extension of audit powers and the position of the Office for Budgetary Control. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance provided some additional clarifications relating mainly to the timing of the preparation of the new bill to be submitted to the National Assembly in the coming autumn. Following the debate held in accordance with Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted the following decision, and the draft Law on the Court of Auditors is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the SAB Group of Ambassadors, colleague Monica Gregorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u146	Thank you very much, President. Dear Members and Members. The proposal for this new Systemic Law on the Court of Auditors was aimed at better and more broadly defining the work areas of the Court of Auditors, since the law currently in force is almost 20 years old. Of course, we support this objective in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre. We are convinced that the Court of Auditors needs a renewed, updated legal basis for its effective functioning, which will also grant it greater powers or mechanisms to better control the use of public money, including sanctions for cases of irregularities identified. Therefore, we have already actively supported the preparation of the new proposal in the previous coalition and have actively participated in the process of coalition coordination. The technical coordination was also carried out in cooperation with the Court of Auditors and we were therefore negatively surprised by the very extensive comments made by the Legal and Legislative Services. Obviously, the professional part of the preparation of the marriage was not prepared or done satisfactorily. Although amendments were tabled at the meeting of the Finance Committee by formerly leading coalition parliamentary groups, these amendments only partially addressed the substantive and legal shortcomings in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. We therefore welcome the position of the new government in the modern centre Party's parliamentary group, which also believes that the law on the Court of Auditors requires comprehensive reform and broader and more precise system-specific definitions. A new bill on the Court of Auditors will thus be prepared this year, according to the new team from the Ministry of Finance. However, in the Modern Centre Party's parliamentary group, we expect that this new proposal will fully and comprehensively regulate the work of the Court of Auditors, so that this can work as effectively and effectively as possible, and that it will also receive additional leverage for adequate control over the use of public money as soon as possible. At the same time, it is particularly important to point out that the Court of Auditors acts smoothly under the existing, or old, law in force and that it continues to carry out its work in the manner it has done so far. However, due to all the shortcomings mentioned above, we cannot support the bill on the Court of Auditors in the Group of Members of the Modern Centre of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The text is by the left-wing group, colleague of Boštjan Koražija.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u148	Mr President, thank you for saying so. At every opportunity in Levika, we advocate transparency and democratic control over the functioning of the State, municipalities and all publicly owned enterprises. We are for a strong Court of Auditors, which supervises all public money authorities and companies. At the same time, we are aware of the delicate boundaries between when it comes to the control of transactions by the Court of Auditors, when it comes to cases that should actually be dealt with by law enforcement authorities when it comes to illegal transactions and sanctions should be more severe than remedial measures or infringement proceedings. Therefore, we must not allow ourselves to accept only the revision of the Court of Auditors and the remedial measures imposed in cases suitable for prosecution. We've already turned to the Court of Auditors on our own several occasions. We have proposed a revision of the procedures for the purchase of four-wheel Oshkosh armor and the audit of the business of the Slovenian National Forests. We also support the Court of Auditors' efforts to investigate all suspicious transactions concerning the acquisition of protective medical equipment during the COVID-19 epidemic. The bill provided for a number of positive solutions. For us, a very important solution was about the so-called. Whiskers. The proposal for a solution that introduced the possibility of an anonymous audit proposal is assessed as an important step, but we note that anonymity must be allowed during the whole process and also in all subsequent stages, for example, a criminal procedure. The extension of the chain of undertakings to direct and direct ownership of the State or municipalities to subsidiaries and to all those companies in which the state or municipality has a dominant influence is, according to our assessment, a step in the right direction. In doing so, we advocate that the threshold of dominant influence should be set at 25% and not 40%, as foreseen in the proposal to amend the law. The proposal also has solutions that we do not support in Levica. For example, provisions on the rights and position of the officers of the Court of Auditors. These provisions put them above all other officials in the country. Solutions such as the possibility of returning to the previous post at any time and not only within three months of the termination of the post, the right to compensation after the regular termination of the term of office for a period of one year, the possibility of an extension for another year, the additional remuneration for each previous term before the end of the term of office, the 30 days paid exceptional absence, the additional 8 days of leave and so on, in our opinion, are certainly excessive privileges. Last year, we were able to prevent an excessive extension of the privilege for Members of Parliament, and there is absolutely no reason for us to now grant the officers of the Court of Auditors more privileges than some Members would have wanted. For us, it is also unacceptable to rule on a mandatory preliminary ruling by the Court in the event that the National Assembly by law wishes to confer on the Court of Auditors any jurisdiction. What the search for a transitional opinion would mean for laws that have reached political consensus with such an effort, such as the supervision of the Court of Justice over the Bank of Slovenia or the student organisation, we can only think. Likely, such and similar laws would not be possible at all. We need amendments that will ensure maximum transparency and democratic control of the functioning of the State of municipalities and all related companies to the Court of Auditors, while protecting those individuals who disclose irregularities and abuses. We therefore need to strengthen the supervisory mechanisms and competences of the Court of Auditors, not the privileges of its officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, colleague Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On the Committee on Finance, our Chairman of the Committee, Comrade Polnar, correctly presented the entire chronology of the adoption of the new law on the Court of Auditors. We in New Slovenia have great confidence in the Court of Auditors. In 25 years, this reputation was created by the Court of Auditors alone. Even in international forums, not only with membership in the international organisation of supreme audit institutions, but with work. We were also told why such a decision was made. In order to throw out the law, as we say, and to order the government to prepare a new law as soon as possible in the early autumn, if this law was in line with the previous opposition, including us, with New Slovenia. No, he wasn't. There was no government in our New Slovenia Group to present this law to us, and of course we would be happy to accept it, namely, the representative of the government. On the other hand, I can thank the President of the Court of Auditors, who was in the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats and tell you exactly what the Court of Auditors wants. He wants more efficiency. And the fact is that within 25 years or after 25 years of the Court of Auditors, after 25 years of experience, it is certainly time for us to adopt a completely new law on the Court of Auditors. It is logical, however, that when the new government comes, the kova coalition certainly has its own view on the mission of the Court of Auditors. I am confident that the real government will actively approach the writing of a new bill on the Court of Auditors. And as it is said, as promised on the committee, we will receive a new bill on the Court of Auditors in the autumn. But I'm sure there would also be someone who, if this law were to be adopted today, would, for example, be able to report that, at that time, investigations are being carried out both at the ministries, perhaps elsewhere, to investigate the urgent purchase of protective equipment, and that many of them might be able to see that we are changing the rules at the stage of the investigations, the revisions in this case. However, we are convinced that it is a wise decision to reject this law and that we are expecting a new law in the autumn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The word is given by Alenka Bratušek, a colleague of Maša Kociper's.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Sometimes in this house, we really do witness an absurdity. For example, a party who makes a law on how to reduce ddv for years and years practically every month is at a time when it comes to power and there is no more spirit or hearing about such an idea. There are many such cases in this house. Too many to list, but it is very interesting that obviously this category also includes the Law on the Court of Auditors, which is before us today. In this house, many mouthfuls have words about how to ensure greater transparency and control over the use of public funds, achieve greater efficiency of audit procedures, eliminate many irregular procedural steps and so on. After almost 20 years, the time has come to legitimize changes to this law, which in practice has shown certain shortcomings, at least so have you all, we have all spoken. The law before us has been prepared long and, according to my information, has been coordinated by the Court of Auditors with all parliamentary parties, as well as the Office of the Government of Law and the competent ministries. The Court of Auditors certainly came to our House of Auditors. It is true that the law had some comments from the Law-Legal Service, but none of them was the same, according to this service, that it could not be replaced by an amendment. Regardless of this, it appears that we will not receive this law, for we decide that the law is not suitable for further consideration and that nothing else arises to man but the question of what actually happened and how the conversion took place. The law enhances the effectiveness of audit procedures, introduces a particularly short-term process that simplifies matters, reduces the use of public funds, introduces the possibility of halting the audit process, extends the sets of audited entities to certain private law entities, extends the auditors that can be supervised within enterprises that are partly state-owned and so on. How does such content not receive support? The answer, of course, can be found quickly. The law isn't assigned enough, the law should be fully renewed, we don't need a novel, we need a new law. But how come you didn't ask yourself all this and talk before, under the previous government when this law was coordinated. In the SAB Group, therefore, we can only guess what are the different reasons why all the parties have resigned from the adoption of this law and what will be the content of the new law that is being prepared and how it will reach into another subsystem in our country. Perhaps the reasons for this are shown in a version that some right-wing politicians, media and Twitterians point to the current President of the Court of Auditors. And if that is the case, if we do not accept, accept, or prevent laws for the sake of a person or an individual, then this is a major mistake. In the SAB Party, the proposal would support the law as it advocates the highest level of efficiency of control over the state budget, transparent spending of public money, efforts to eliminate the legal content that has been detected at that time, allowing these contents to also corruption, avoidance of laws and so on, illegal commissions and illegal financing of political parties. We could take care of all of this. I'm afraid we won't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Desus Group, a colleague of Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u154	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Ladies sent, Members of Parliament! The first law on the Court of Auditors was adopted in 1994 and the law in force has been in force since 2001. The procedure from the submission until the adoption of the law lasted from 24 June to 1999 until 30 January 2001, 19 months. Thus, the National Assembly was able to devote sufficient time to the consideration and adoption of the law. The draft law adopted by the Finance Committee concluded that the previous Government had submitted a legislative procedure for further consideration on 10 January this year. At the same time, the outbreak and the appointment of a new government have been announced at the same time. The law has 56 articles and amendments have been tabled to Article 38 of the Legislative and Legal Service. The role of the Court of Auditors in the Slovenian institutional system remains unequivocal. The Court of Auditors will carry out its activities in accordance with the existing law and in accordance with the annual audit plan. Users of public funds will be exposed to audits of the profitability of operations, which will also include appropriate proposals for possible improvements. In doing so, the implementation of audits on the regularity of operations and audits of financial statements will continue to ensure that users of public funds comply with the rules in force. Members of the Desus Group support the rejection of the bill, but we know that the preparation of the new bill will not be easy work, as some important open issues will need to be resolved in our opinion. Any interference with parliamentary autonomy as provided for in Article 5 cannot be allowed. The legislative proposal on the Court of Auditors is not the right matter to regulate the organisation and work of the National Assembly, which can only be determined by the Rules of Procedure adopted by the two-thirds majority of Members. It will be necessary to redefine changes in audit powers, in particular in the case of possible audit bodies, the potential for the revision of subsidiaries established by companies in majority national or municipal ownership and the setting of a threshold of significant impact. The proposals will need to be designed so that they do not conflict between public interest after the audit by the Court of Auditors and private property which has a share in a particular legal person which is greater than public interest. The legal basis for the audit of companies in the majority of direct and indirect ownership of the country already exists in the Slovenian State Holding Act. It is estimated that the role and status of the budgetary control office and, possibly in part, or the whole association of its powers with the Court of Auditors' institution will need to be defined and made sense. The basic review must be to provide for legal provisions that will make it possible to increase the effectiveness of the operation. The timely perception of problems is a condition for the appropriate response of both the type of audit institution in the form of adequate reporting and in the form of appropriate proposals for solutions made through requests and recommendations. In this regard, it would be appropriate to maintain the proposed amendments concerning the powers of the Court of Auditors to suspend the ongoing audit. It is also appropriate to rationalise the operation by introducing a reduced audit procedure and by requiring criminal authorities to provide feedback to the Court of Auditors on their actions. Members of the Desus Group will support the decision of the National Assembly that the draft law on the Court of Auditors is not appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The Member Group of the Slovenian National Party shall have the floor. My friend Jani Ivanuša.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u156	Nice greetings again to all present! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, we strongly support the decision that the draft law on the Court of Auditors is not suitable for further consideration. Decision makers saw how badly the law was drawn up, and little sense was needed to make the decision as it was. We do not agree with the indications that the proposal for a law was prepared on the basis of coordination and taking into account the expertise of the public. We believe that the authorship of the law is the power to rewrite some of the individuals in the Court of Auditors who wanted to circumvent established legal principles with the proposal. If the President of the Court of Auditors has stated that he wanted to achieve the aim of increasing the efficiency of the Court of Auditors by law, it is recalled in the same breath that this objective should not be pursued at the expense of the rights of the users of public funds. It is necessary to seek such a solution to ensure, on the one hand, the effectiveness of the functioning of the Authority and, on the other hand, sufficient rights of the user of public funds for effective defence. The fact that the marriage was poorly prepared is evidenced by the fact that the Legislative and Legal Service had submitted a negative opinion on 18 pages. 18 critics, referring to a few more than 50 articles, testify to the surface of the author of the law. The biggest problem is that the proposed law deviates from the legal system. This just can't be happening. With the new law they wanted to introduce the powers of the Court of Auditors also for private legal persons, which is totally wrong with the mission of that State authority. The Court of Auditors is the highest audit authority for the control of state accounts and therefore has nothing to look for in the private sector. Other mechanisms allow control of the private sector. Among other things, they wanted to join the very functioning of the National Assembly, which is contrary to the principle of the division of power. The fundamental human right to judicial protection and the right to a remedy were also sought to exclude, in principle, increasing repression and could also be listed. People have been fed up with the repression that the public sector has been increasingly exerting. Here, let me mention the case that the Slovenian National Party has settled an earlier liability, namely from the wrong transaction account, which has resulted in a fine of several thousand euros from the Court of Auditors. Real and sad at the same time. Such absurdities also occur, mainly due to the increasing repression of the public sector over ordinary citizens. We have found a very smart solution in the bill, in article 31, under which the non-governmental party is also liable. Millions of euros are being channelled to NGOs, and control is either too loose or almost gone. There are still a lot of reserves here, and we hope that the new bill will further tighten the conditions for the supervision of NGOs. That's it. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u158	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues. We have before us a bill on the Court of Auditors. The mother labour body, which examined the proposal of the law, this is the Committee on Finance, rejected the proposal of the law and adopted a decision that the law was not suitable for further consideration. The law was also drafted by the government of Marjan Šarc. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we supported such a proposal at the home part of the body, the Committee on Finance. We are convinced that the law is linked to too many legal concerns. We are convinced that these solutions need to be changed. In the existing law itself, these changes would probably not make sense, for the law would become imprecise. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that a key objective must be pursued, namely to obtain a change and to supplement the law on the Court of Auditors, which will increase the efficiency of the Court of Auditors. We are convinced that the existing law, as proposed, does not follow this objective. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we expect the government to take a serious approach to amending and supplementing this law and to send it to the National Assembly sometime in the autumn of this year. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the proposal that the proposed law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The text is given by the parliamentary group Lista Marjan Šarc, a colleague of Robert Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u160	Nicely greeted. We've talked and heard about trust many times today. The very word itself in its semantics or meaning says that it is a matter of hope, but unfortunately this government and this coalition have long lost this capital, and even now, when irrevocably means irrevocable. We can also apply the same mentality to control mechanisms over state, public finances. Despite the constant calls of this coalition for the contested transactions to be investigated by the authorized authorities when we arrive at the moment when the words of the flesh become, just forget about it. But I can't understand how last night's position changes by 180 degrees in the new parties to the coalition, irrevocably. The current law on the Court of Auditors was adopted in 2001 according to practice, the National Assembly is aware that it is necessary to update it because it no longer provides sufficient legal basis for the effective performance of the tasks. The draft law was drafted largely on the basis of the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. We have updated and adapted other legislation which the Court of Auditors must comply with in the exercise of its powers. It was coordinated with both the Government's legislative service and the competent ministries, and no matter what we heard today, it was in line with the then coalition. Remember, in coalition coordination, all members of all the then coalition groups decided to support the bill, including SMC and Desus. It is interesting, however, that now there are doubts about this law. And the marriage ended in the first reading, but overnight, there was a conceptual difference in who would propose changes. It's just a matter of trust. What's the purpose of the law anyway? To extend the powers of the Court of Auditors in state-owned enterprises, to increase the effectiveness of the audit of the use of public funds in the conscience to introduce a special reduced audit process, to increase the number of entities that the Court of Auditors can revise and optimise the verification of these entities. This would systematically regulate the possibility of auditing subsidiaries established by companies owned by a majority of the state or municipality. In fact, they would allow for the control of public funds, which are all too often carried out at home. We have also proposed an amendment to the procedure for the appointment of an audit firm, which revises the Court of Auditors’ accounts and would in particular simplify and shorten the procedure itself. The appointment of an audit company is now the responsibility of the National Assembly and the selection process is quite long because it is under the Public Procurement Act. We have therefore proposed a change of procedure similar to that of the Bank of Slovenia, and in any case the audit company is always obliged to carry out an audit in accordance with the Audit Act, so it would reduce red tape, but it was not acceptable either for the former or for the current coalition. With everything proposed, the position of the Court of Auditors as an independent Supreme Audit Institute in Slovenia would be strengthened to allow for a better cost-effectiveness of spending public funds, but for what is currently not the real political will in Slovenia, unfortunately. In this way, it would undoubtedly be possible to obtain more verifications, which in the long term would ensure transparency in the public sector, and it is obvious who does not wish to do so. This coalition does not support transparent governance and control over public finances, our finances. Why? Fear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u161	Thank you. The word is from the SD Group, mag. Meira Hot.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u162	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia enjoys a high reputation in the general and professional public, as well as for the vast majority of policies it represents respect and respect for a valuable institution. His opinion is weighty and taken into account. The negative opinion of the Court of Auditors in the business of a particular entity excites the public and encourages a policy to function. When we do not understand the details of the rules in this area ourselves, we refer to the Court of Auditors for interpretation and for advice when we cannot unite or have committed any infringements, and we are awaiting a revision of the Court of Auditors. In short, the Court of Auditors is one of the most respected independent institutions in our country in which we trust left, right, everyone. At least until now it's always been like this. The Court of Auditors shall have appropriate dialogue with all the branches of authority it supervises in all years of its existence. In its regular reports and others, Members and Members of Parliament have been informing us for several years that it is necessary to complement the legal framework for their operation in order to successfully continue their mission. [[Incomprehensible]] To this end, the Court of Auditors has been constructively involved in the drafting of a bill that would improve the working conditions of the Court of Auditors, simplify the procedures a little bit, allowing the Court to gain and retain the top-level staff who, due to their expertise, always have open different career alternatives. The adoption of this bill would provide the Court of Auditors with adequate equipment for the challenges to be met in order to justify the high expectations that we all have for it. Your Honor! All of this would lead to a smooth adoption of a law that has been drawn up transparently and tabled by the previous government. Regrettably, this law also confirms the poor working patterns of this government. The Committee's consideration of the law was first postponed by members of the ruling coalition for some months and then decided, surprisingly and unconvincingly, at the meeting of the Committee, that the draft law should be declared unfit for further consideration. If the State Assembly so decides, the procedure will be closed and it will have to start again. The government coalition has once again demonstrated that, in its view, only those proposals drawn up by that government or its authorities are clearly appropriate for admission to the National Assembly. In the event of recent developments with the non-transparent use of public money, and not only for the acquisition of protective equipment, it is therefore impossible to get rid of the taste that this government does not want a properly empowered independent accounting court, which would be critical and irresistible to every government and to every authority. Therefore, respectable and respected, the Social Democrats regret that there was no coalition will on the Committee to discuss concrete solutions and to design and adopt improvements to the original proposal, which could certainly be improved. Instead, the coalition and the government want the legislative process to end. In this case, the Court of Auditors will unfortunately have to wait for a new round of intersectoral and other coordination before it receives the necessary conditions for its basic mission. Keep an eye on the ways of public money. The need for such oversight has never been greater. The Court of Auditors needs help, not obstacles. We will therefore vote in the Group of Social Democrats against the coalition proposal to conclude that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u163	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, within half an hour of the vote. I hereby end this agenda item and the 19th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 6.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 17.59.) (The sitting resumed at 6.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u164	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. I inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 4, 6, 8, 9 and 10 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda – second reading of the draft law on intervention measures to prepare for the second wave of COVID-19 in the context of the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 9 July 2020, published on eKlopa. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to Article 7. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 49. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ and SD to Article 8. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to Article 10 shall become irrelevant under Article 1 as the amendments are substantively linked. [[No, no, ……]] I'm breaking up. Explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament, Comrade Korazi.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u165	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. Also, what we're going to do in Levico all the time will be warned that only all these state aid companies should be primarily meant to maintain jobs and because we need to make sure that these two Articles, Articles 8 and 10 are going to go and, of course, we will support them, we will vote in favour, but the fact that, when maintaining jobs, we need to be particularly careful that we do not get subsidised profits and personal revenues, increases in the personal income of the owners of enterprises, and therefore I think we need to be in this situation like this now, the Coronavirus or the Coronavirus epidemic, we need to be particularly careful, but I hope that every euro will be well reversed or not, that it will be given to those who need it, say, to those who are the weakest, the workers and the workers who are actually doing jobs, and, and, in fact, that we will not be able to get back to that once again, and I hope that it will end, that we will be able to do it, that we will be able to do it, or not, or not, that we will not, that we will not, that we will not, that we will be able to do it again, that we will not, that we will be able to do it again, that we will be able to do it again, that we will be able to do it again, that we will be able to do it again, that we will be able to do it again, and we will be able to do it again, that we will be able to do it again, we will be able to do it again, we will be able to do it again, we will be able to do it again, we will be able to do it again, we will be able to do it again, we will be able to do it again, we will be able to do it again, we will be able to do it again, we will be able to do it again, we will be able to do it again, we will be able to do it again, we will be able to do it again, we will be able to do it again, we will be able to do it again, we will be able to do it again, we will be able to do it again, we will be able to do it again, we will be able to do it again, we will be able to do it again, Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u166	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 49. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of Article 8 by the Left, LMŠ and SD Group has not been adopted, the amendment to Article 10 has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ and SD groups to Article 10 under Article 2. We're voting. 83 Members present, 33 to 49. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ, SAB and SD to Article 15(1). If this amendment is adopted as an amendment to Article 15 of the Parliamentary Groups of the Left, the LMŠ and the SD to Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC; the NSI and Desus to Article 15 of Article 3 are irrelevant. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 51 becomes irrelevant, since the amendments are substantively linked. We're voting. 83 Members present, 29 to 49. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ and SD groups to Article 15 under Article 2. We're voting. 83 Members present, 33 to 50. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC and NSI and Desus to Article 15(3). If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 17 becomes irrelevant, since the amendments are substantively linked. We're voting. 78 Members present, for 50, for 5. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 16. We're voting. 83 Members present, for 50, for 2. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 17. We're voting. 81 Members present, for 51, for 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 25. Explanation on behalf of Ambassador Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u167	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting1 We will vote against it here in Levica. However, this is part of Article 24 on data collection, which the coalition withdrew yesterday and is now returning. It withdrew it on the basis of warnings from the Legal and Information Service that it was an indefinite set of authorities for the purpose of monitoring compliance with the quarantine for an indefinite set of data sources to be obtained from electronic communications providers and an indefinite set of identification data on the locations of people to be followed through the application. That's what I'm gonna say. That's not a joke. We come into a period of follow-up capitalism, which is already based on Google, Facebook and other corporations knowing where we are at any time, they can also find out who we are, what we're doing, maybe even what we're talking about. I know that you will answer on the right that if we are followed by corporations why we should not have a country, but see, in crises, the way forward is being pushed, new standards are being set as we get security measures at airports that we know today after the 2001 attacks, so we will now set new standards for what the country in electronic control of citizens can do in this crisis. These are not measures that will only be transitional for the purposes of COVID, and a new normality is being created here. And my answer is exactly the opposite of what you offer us on the government side, if we want to defend personal freedom in the 21st century, we cannot accept that we are already being followed by Internet multinationals and why we should not have a country, but the other way around. Not the state, not the multinationals. They can't follow us. Strong privacy on the Internet will need to be promoted, and we will need to defend autonomy and the personal freedoms that we still have today are disappearing. And if I end up like this. There is no way I can agree to the forced choice offered by Prime Minister Janša, whether we have this app or we will go to quarantine. Look, the third option the government should be dealing with is on the palm of its hand. Improve health capacities, implement measures to protect the elderly, protect vulnerable groups, carry out tests and so on. Not that you offer us this forced choice, which is nothing but sand in public's eyes for your own incompetence. We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u168	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 25. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to Article 35(1), if this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB groups to this Article becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 15. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to Article 35(1) was adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to the same Article under Article 2 became irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 38. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 49. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to Article 39. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 49. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to Article 43. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 25. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 44. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 49. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the members of the Left, LMŠ, SAB and SD to Article 48. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 49. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to Article 50. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 13. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment by the members of the Left, LMŠ, SAB and SD groups to Article 15 to Article 1 has not been adopted, the amendment to Article 51 has become irrelevant. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly adopted the amendments to Articles 15, 16, 17, 25, 35, 43 and 50 of the amended law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? Yes, my colleague Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u169	On behalf of LMŠ, SD, SAB and Left we are forecasting in the third reading of the amendment and therefore I ask that you give us time to prepare this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue half an hour after the end of the 10th. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on the Court of Auditors in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The draft law on the Court of Auditors is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. 82 Members and Members present, for 50, for 32. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 32.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the organization of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization on the establishment of an international research centre for artificial intelligence at the Joseph Stephen Institute in love under the auspices of the Union. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Group of Social Democrats. My colleague Matjaž German has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u171	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Social Democrats will be very pleased to support the proposed ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Organization of United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization on the establishment of an international research centre for artificial intelligence at the Institute of Josef Stefan in Ljubljana under the auspices of UNESCO. The Agreement was signed by the former Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikalo, on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, following prior consideration and support by the Committee on Foreign Affairs this March. I would like to say that this is one of the major foreign policy and development steps of the Republic of Slovenia. Much has already been written about the potentials of this international centre. Prior to its official establishment and potential centres, centres in Slovenia as a pioneer in the field of artificial intelligence were also reported by the world-renowned magazine Forbs. The Centre for Artificial Intelligence, which is the first such centre under the auspices of Unesca in the world, undoubtedly presents a great development opportunity both for Slovenian science, for our technological development and the Slovenian economy. That the decision to establish the Unesco Centre for Artificial Intelligence was correct shows already the results of the Centre's performance in the last few months. The centre was thus actively involved in the international network, Coronavirus Watch, where the centre actively participates in the development of the observatory and the analytical environment to monitor the spread of coronavirus. Proposals and initiatives for cooperation with the Centre and thus outstanding development potential have been emerging for a long time in other areas, such as education, development, similar centres elsewhere in the world and other search for development synergies, including the economy. The story of Unesca, Unesc's Centre for Artificial Intelligence based in Ljubljana shows us the remarkable development potential that Slovenian science and the Slovenian society, which he undoubtedly needed, must be supported. Even in these extremely complex times, when we still have to take the challenges of digitisation seriously and ensure the developmental breakthrough of our society as a knowledge society. Social Democrats would like such stories as this, as in the case of the UNESCO Centre for Artificial Intelligence based in Ljubljana, to be more and thus show all its development potential. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I believe that we are ahead of an extraordinary event, so it is also appropriate to celebrate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u172	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the Group's position. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the context of the second reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 81 Members present, 81, against no one. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to nine. Agenda item – Consideration of the proposal for a law on the ratification of amendments to the 2006 Maritime Labour Convention and amendments to the 2016 Maritime Labour Convention 2016. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which shall report in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the second reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 832 MPs present, 82, against no one. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. Agenda item — Defence of the proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the organization of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Union on the transformation of the invention of the Regional Centre for Library Information Systems of the Information System into a centre of the second category under the auspices of the Union and its activities. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the context of the second reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 82 Members present for 82, against no one. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 19th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 7.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 18.54.) (The sitting was resumed at 7.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u173	Dear colleagues. We continue with the adjourned session and the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law on intervention measures to prepare for the second wave of COVID-19 in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment that has been tabled. So I am putting to the debate Article 25 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Left and Sab groups. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. I'm going through the list. Applications are under way. Comrade Jani Möderndorfer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u174	Thank you very much. The third reading amendment was tabled for a simple reason. We have already held a part of the debate on this article today, and it is more than clear that, at the very beginning, the coalition has reached a point where it has not gathered enough votes at the committee's own debate, where this part dealing with this matter has also withdrawn. Of course, in the second reading, this matter came back with the amendment, and today it has also been confirmed, but in the debate itself several open cases have been revealed. One of the key issues is, of course, that the Legislative and Legal Service has also challenged such a way with regard to the procedure itself under the Law on Administrative Procedure, the method of service. And the second part, which, of course, is also significant, is who actually has the right to access data or records. In fact, in this National Assembly, we have debated several times that the police are overloaded and, of course, we have a serious problem because some of you want to help her, of course, to send an army to help her – on the other hand, you assign her additional obligations and duties of looking into records. We know that in this country the quarantine process itself can, of course, lead the Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, the police are not qualified for this. And more importantly, in no case where the police are present as an escort in the event that they check the legitimacy itself and help the inspectorate in this way, there is no additional possibility for the police to look into the records, the files of an individual case led by any inspectorate. However, in the case of a health inspectorate in the case of quarantine, he suddenly has a view of the personal data protected by him. In fact, we are not aware of the fact that this is a medical information that is carefully protected by personal data and is legally and ultimately a stop to carefully protected and sensitive personal data. In this case, of course, instead of accessing a medical inspection, for example, a doctor who is, of course, also one who can see it and knows, now that the police are suddenly able to deal with it. Please. Indeed, we are in conflict not only with the law and the constitution, but with the fact that we are actually allowing the police and introducing a new kind of practice, that we will see for every time such a matter at once that the police are essentially the only life-saving plant in this country and that they can come to our aid in every matter. Are we going to give new powers because we gave them to a health inspection, including a work inspection, to the police? Are we going to give the other, I don't know, market inspection, police a chance to do a little more work there? Because, you know, inspectors aren't just too small for a health inspection, but everywhere, everywhere. Instead of thinking about a kind of reorganisation of inspection services in the country, we are dealing with what we will hand over to the police. I'm talking about the records under point three, this is the amendment, which, of course, we're also proposing the entire deletion. That is why, of course, I think and we are convinced that this article, as such, is, of course, harmful, illegal and unconstitutional. But, as has already been said, it seems that reason and logic and profession do not apply here. All that matters is what the Chief said. And that's worrying about the whole thing. That is why, of course, I also suggest to all Members that they include at least this reason and at least this article, that we all step back one step together. In fact, this will result in no less or more public health threats than some would like to say and that it is a matter of protecting public health. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the 25th Article of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 48. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. With regard to the harmonisation of the law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr. Minister Cigler to the King.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u176	Thank you, Mr. President. Since the amendment was adopted in the second reading of Article 35, the law is therefore internally inconsistent and I predict that the harmonisation amendment will be tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u177	Since the Government has warned that after the third reading of the bill due to the amendments adopted is inconsistent, I ask the Government to prepare a harmonisation amendment. The National Assembly will continue its consideration of this item in 10 minutes, at 7.45 p.m. Until then, I'm breaking this agenda. (The sitting was suspended at 19.36) (The sitting resumed at 7.45 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u178	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue the adjourned session and the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law on intervention measures to prepare for the second wave of COVID-19 in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since the Government had warned that, due to the amendments adopted after the third reading, the proposal for a law had been uncoordinated, the Government had prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 49, which had been published on the e-club. Would you like to speak to the government about the harmonisation amendment? No, no, no. Do Members and Members want the word? No, no, no. Anybody else want to discuss this? Not at all. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 49. We're voting. The 74 Members and Members present, for 49, for 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Comrade Luka Moon on behalf of the Left Group. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Keep your voice down!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u179	Thank you for your word. We will vote against this law in Levica. For the law is a cumbersome, flawed and intruding provision on an application that will introduce control over citizens. In Levica and the opposition in general, we have proposed a series of amendments to help a number of groups of people who will spend the summer in spite of the increasing number of infections in Slovenia in order to get closer to the so-called second wave, without help. Without help, there'll be a lot of redundancies. Many services in Slovenia do not operate or operate with half-power. It's forbidden to do events. In fact, the gathering is limited to 10 people and there can be no concerts, performing activities, weddings. On the other hand, there are still no foreign tourists in Slovenia, which is a problem for tourist guides. Finally, the problem arises in the activities involved. If I recall, last week the Gardenia company closed its doors, it's a critter in a flower shop. Simply because the activities that brought him the business were abolished during the coronavirus. And in such situations, reprimands will remain without basic income, without help. Here we are talking about many of the 120 thousand espions we have in Slovenia, will remain without a basic income during the summer and will be left to themselves. It's similar to students. Many lived through their work as students. In the summer, they picked up some supplies for the year. This year’s demand for student work is lower, because it’s easy for the restaurants to operate with half a pair, as I mentioned earlier many activities at the head with no one at all. [[Incomprehensible]] And even students will receive only some modest compensation, and far from being able to live with it. Then there are no anti-forgivance guards. Unemployment is 26% higher this year than in the comparable period last year. Companies will receive subsidies, but there are no safeguards to prevent these workers from being fired. And last but not least, here is an application that I've talked about before, which, contrary to foreign practices, for example, Germany works behind closed doors, not publicly and transparently, the provisions in the law are written forward, full of potential unconstitutionalities and violations of privacy and constitutionally guaranteed rights, which is only a point on and so that we will vote against this law in Levica, and we also predict that we will make provisions on the application [[turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Reich, on behalf of the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u181	Thank you so much for saying that. COVID really intervened in our lives in a way we never imagined. In order to tackle the epidemic, the government intervened in a way that essentially stopped certain economic activities and it is also right that it has taken certain mitigating measures and that we have therefore supported it in the SAB. I regret, however, that you did not recognize fellow Members in the case of masks, that if the Government ordered them as mandatory, it would then provide them to those vulnerable, and this is a parallel to the measures it has taken in the field of the economy, if it has banned or restricted economic activity, it has also taken certain remedial measures. Secondly, in the SAB, as you know, we have proposed the establishment of a specific COVID budget item and independent parliamentary supervision. Today, we do not know where these measures will be financed, which items will be withdrawn so that they can then be given. I end up feeling like there's a lot of inadequacy and that's one thing we should be dealing with. On the other hand, I would also like to touch these apps. Many true experts have expressed their concerns about how this application is implemented and, on the other hand, I would be very clear to say that in the field of regulating waiting lines in health care or the single waiting line for retirement homes, the government is unable to prepare such applications in order to make order in this area. And now I wonder why they can't make order in these two key areas, why they can't manage waiting lines in health care and in retirement homes with one application and, on the other hand, one such sophisticated application that follows individuals can be introduced overnight. In the SAB Group, it is precisely because of all the above and so many issues that we have had, otherwise we will not oppose the adoption of the law, nor will we and we cannot support it, because it has a lot of inconsistencies and uncertainties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Colleague Lidija Divac Mirnik in the name of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u183	Thank you so much for saying that. In the LMŠ Group, we do not object to the extension of the measures that you have included in the new anti-correne 4 although, in fact, this would not be necessary if a good month ago we also adopted a good proposal from the opposition parliamentary groups, such as extending the waiting period until the end of August, as we have also tabled in the CAP3, but of course not. Again, we can point out that this time you have forgotten some groups, such as cultural workers, event organizers, fairs, congresses, employees in copyright and enterprise contracts, and could also list them. In the past, in the List of Marjan Šarc, we are always important in supporting a measure that has, to some extent, helped to remedy the consequences of declaring the epidemic and that does not include non-interventional and substantive content in measures to alleviate the effects of the Coronavirus. More. If you remember every law, you also included articles to which the Constitution has been warned by both the Legislative and Legal Service, the Information Officer, the Ombudsman, NGOs, and more, articles which constitute a disproportionate interference in human rights, which slowly introduce another system. Today, when there is as much interference with human privacy as the mandatory tracking application, as it has warned both the legal and the information profession and the giving of powers to the police, who will be able to look into the health status of the persons who have been served with the decision, we must say very clearly that we strongly oppose it. Therefore, we will not support this content solely because it contains solutions that are not appropriate, but we give you another option, the quiz could be said. To the extent that your intention is truly sincere, if you really want to help, as you claim, we call on you to reject this law now without constitutionally disputed solutions and to reintroduce it into the procedure, for example tomorrow, when it is also the College of the President of the National Assembly and it can continue our work. Because we're gonna be here all week anyway, and we can solve this right now. But I'm afraid I'm very naive, of course. Well, that's not gonna happen. Nevertheless, we will not support this proposal in the List of Marjan Šarc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u184	Thank you very much. My friend, Dejan Jedhan, on behalf of the House of Representatives? Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u185	Thank you, Madam President. Messengers and Members, for the last time today, a nice greeting. We will also vote against the crown of the 4th Act this time. It's not because of your work, Mr. Secretary, that you're here. You have taken into account some of our proposals from the first, second and third, including some of your own. That's good. However, the repressiveness you have pointed out, this path to authoritarianism and dictatorial aspirations, which are so very visible from this law, the wrong patterns of behaviour you see in Orban and Vukic, are sufficient reasons to vote against. And enough reason to talk about this law in a constitutional court if you vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the Members? No, no, no. In your own name? I'm going through the list. The application shall be made. The first one has the word of a colleague, Aljaž Kovacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u187	Thank you for your word, President. Yeah, it's a little bit harder for younger people to listen to so much talk about the app today because we grew up with technology and maybe we understand it a little bit more. Now that some debates or debates end with the application Facebook or Instagram and it does not even part with what is voluntary and what is a mandatory application, there may not have been a need to engage in the debate alone. Now, during the debate alone, I thought that with three programmers, and I also told them a few views, and they just started laughing about it. And if I put aside some of the views given by the legislative legal service, the Ombudsman, then also the information officer, after all, I think that on the last one of the Slovenian televisions, the programmer or so-called hackers who said what holes could be all in these apps. But if I put all this aside, he actually convinced me how to do it, a tweet written by esteemed colleague Joseph Horvat: “I regret so much empty debate about something that is not at all. Who knows the app? Nobody. Has anyone chosen her yet? Nobody. Are there specifications for her today? They are not.’ So I don't know what we could vote on. Of course I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u188	Thank you very much. The next word is from colleague Nataša Sukič, an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u189	Yes, thank you for your word. Let me just say, of course, this law cannot be supported, as it usually crumbling. We have not received an answer to a number of questions, and to the key questions when it comes to matters affecting our constitutional rights. The law clearly manifests all the incompetence of this government. It's too late. It's supposed to come into force. Seven, as we know, well, let's see today's date. But inside he's solving things he wouldn't even have to solve if he'd listened to the opposition in the last three anti-Korona packages — but he's not. And we've filed over 100 amendments, as far as I can remember, haven't we? Not to mention that the craftsmanship is below every level. This is an example of non-compliance with minimum legislative standards. The articles do not have an explanation, but merely a perfect description of what is provided for in the article and this has been pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service. 24 pages of comments, notes by the Legislative and Legal Service to almost every article – that is all. The government therefore merely partially prolongs certain measures and excludes a number of groups. The aid measures are, merely, an extension of the partial reimbursement mechanism for pending workers, nothing else. Not even subsidizing shorter working hours, but helping self-employed people and others. There is no protector, no job conservation measure, and we have 26% higher unemployment than in the comparable period last year. And it will only be if it goes so far, for the aid is not bound to the prohibition of forgiveness, but only in the sense that those who are even performing the prizes will be able to pay. The most concerned are constitutional interventions into human rights. Again, you set us up with something and so our prime minister missed his chance again instead of being a big brother. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u190	Thank you very much. My colleague Marko Bandelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u191	Thank you, President, for your word. They've already said a lot, but I'm going to tell you why I'm going to vote like this. Now, the only thing that bothers me, I think a lot of things are good inside, I have to say, in this marriage, but very much, I think which is very small or almost nothing and does not solve problems and not help in a small economy. It is said that for the fourth time we have been making a new law or fixing one another and for a small economy there is little or almost nothing, and this I have been warning through and you yourself have found out. Only large companies are being saved, proof that Lahovnik has now moved to the supervisory council in Krk, that is to say, he sees only great things, which he is also interested in for these small entrepreneurs. That's why they didn't solve anything about a small economy. So that's one reason. The second reason, however, is that my colleague Aljaž has already escaped me, when he himself is not concerned with the application, I think this application is now on to you when a coalition member tells you that there is nothing to discuss about who knows this application and it is written that no one, or who has already chosen it, is anyone. [[Incomprehensible]] Aren't the specifications for it today, you don't know, so what are we going to vote on, what are you going to vote for? Cat in a frog. There's nothing to know. What kind of app is this? So we don't even know what we're going to vote on. What are the risks behind this app? I would vote because I am in favour of being controlled and this being protected by a little bit of this matter, but not in such a way as to give precise specifications and how and who will feed it, who will control it, who will watch it. So I won't vote against it, but I will abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u192	Thank you very much. There is a colleague, Robert Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The saddest part is that in all attempts by the opposition, how would they have argued against at least this article in this law is ridiculous to the coalition. But that's another question. I can see why this app is. There was a meeting at the Ministry of Public Administration 14 days ago, at which informatics were told you had time to prepare this application. Of course, state intelligence is unable to do so within 14 days. And someone has already been chosen in advance to prepare this app for 600,000 euros. By not knowing which one of these apps this country wants. This is the most important question of what we want from this app at all. And there was not nearly no answer to that question in today's debate. Today, there is a legal basis for doing something again, and we don't even know why we're going to have that, who's going to use it. Where will the data be stored? The key things are hidden. And if you agree with that, I'm not, and I can't. That's why I'm going to vote against this law easily, because now you've already taken us four times, the fourth time you've driven us thirsty across the water. We were not opposed to the first three laws, but we were alerted to hundreds of holes, but you made it clear to everyone that, no, no, no, no, no, for a hundred times, the law under consideration. There has to be this repair once, and one time, these stunts are finally enough. Let's get one thing ready, and don't brag about how fast you've done it. Because if you do it quickly, you're gonna fix it five more times. And that's exactly what happens from month to month from the session to the session, we're always just correcting your mistakes. This time I'm absolutely against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-09-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. We are voting on the bill as a whole. There are 77 Members present, for 50, for 23. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9. JULY 2020 AT 20.05.)
