ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, nice greeting! I begin with the 21st session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Franz Kramar, Tadeja Šuštar, Michael Prevc, Sam Bevk, Mag. Mark Koprivc by 1:00, Robert Polnar, mag. Carmen Furman, Jani Möderndorfer and Dr. Franz Runk by 10:00. We're moving to 14. Agenda item – Defence proposal for the schedule of the Advisory Referendum on the adoption of the proposal for a law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian military in the years 2021 to 2026. A group of eight Members and Members with the first-signed Luka Mesec submitted a proposal for an advisory referendum for consideration. I therefore give the text to the representative of the proposer, Luke Mesca, for an additional explanation of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. A nice hello! Today we will decide whether the people should be given the opportunity to decide on the purchase of EUR 780 million in arms at the consultation referendum. There are many good reasons why we should decide this at the referendum. Firstly, this is the largest investment of this government, in this and in the next two years there are no comparable investments in any area. It will not build a new clinical centre, nor will it plan for more serious investment in long-term care, housing policy or railway modernisation, and it is clear what is the priority of this government, regardless of the circumstances – to acquire €780 million in arms. Secondly, the time for such an investment would be difficult to choose worse. We talk about it in situations where the state is closed when, despite the fact that it is not announced, the government is in fact a state of emergency, the lives of people are reduced in practice as during the war, we live in quarantine and in the first curfew after almost 80 years, every 40th citizen is infected, all alarms are ringing in health, but you, the government, while forcing the purchase of 780 million euro weapons. I understand that today you will vote against the consultation referendum, because how would you explain the political choice to people? How would you explain, say, that Kranjčany woman who last died because of the collapse of health care for nine days waiting for a diagnosis and an inflammation of the appendix, which should be routine and she almost died – Slovenka in 2020? How are you going to explain that it is a priority to acquire €780 million in weapons to a young health care technician who, in his social media record this weekend, described how dressed in a suitor, with all its openings he can neither eat nor drink, nor for the evening, in the impossible situation on the staff section works all sweaty after 12 hours a day, and for the pin he has to pay for his own parking in front of UKC? How are you going to explain that there's no money for his parking lot, but we have 780 million euros for weapons? And finally, I understand that you do not want a referendum, because how will you explain your priorities to everyone who will suffer a number of personal tragedies in the coming months because of the cancellation of preventive services in health will come late, perhaps too late to adequate diagnosis. How will you explain to them that there was no money to strengthen health care, to prepare it for the second wave, which even in the spring you were telling yourself was coming in autumn and we have money for weapons? I know what you're going to tell them because you're already us – you're not gathering between their endangered health and investments in weapons, even though our country is not in danger. You'll say we have money for both of us. You will say that we have received 10 billion from the EU, even though you know that this is an empty argument and that it is not as your cameraman Jelinčič says, the people are not stupid, and they will quickly show up fast numbers. This slogan about the 10 European billion that Janez Janša was supposed to fight with his foreign political genius, which we could all admire on Twitter this weekend, will sound like a bad joke on the radio Yerevan. In this case, the listener would call the radio and ask: “Did we really get an additional 10 billion under Janez Janša’s government?” The announcer would reply: “In principle this is true, only that we did not get 10 of them, but we lost 10.” This isn't a joke. Of the 10 billion Europeans, it is necessary to deduct 3 billion payments into the European budget and then about 3 billion and a half loans, while 3 remain, but these 3 have already been spent this year, in order to move the first coven wave from March to October and in the meantime forget to prepare health care. On the other hand, if we look at the budget documents for this year and the next two years, we will see that this year there is a deficit of 4.2 billion or three TES 6 and that the country will be in debt for 10 billion and 11 billion under optimistic scenarios, twice as much as the bank hole has been repaired. So you really have money for everything, for the military and for health, for people and for weapons? In fact, this country has never been as indebted as it will be after this year, much less after the next two. We are talking about a state debt of 100% of GDP. And in the face of all the problems that this country has, you've put 780 million euros in arms first. To understand why we are opposed to this investment. This money is not only meaningless, but it is completely lost for this country. With it we will buy weapons from foreign suppliers, nor will the euro of these 780 million be invested in Slovenia, so no meter of road, railway or apartment will be built at home. I fully understand why the leading members of NATO, at the head of the United States, are so pressing others to increase their spending on weapons. They have a huge military industry that lives off such orders. For the arms-producing countries, these 780 million in crisis times are essentially foreign aid, as now someone in our companies has invested 780 million to maintain jobs, investments, profits. From the point of view of our economy, this is the most pointless consumption you can imagine. As it is said, even the euro will not remain in Slovenia, except what someone will cut off with corruption, let us not forget Patria. I know what your next argument will be to stand on these 780 million and fall the Slovenian Army. But let's see the numbers, the Slovenian Army gets half a billion a year and nobody takes that money, we don't touch that money. And if with half a billion a year he cannot survive, even though we live in peaceful times surrounded by friendly countries themselves, three are members of NATO, and one is neutral, then something is wrong with the management of the Slovenian Army, not with its finances. For an army lady in the proportion of GDP more than, say, neighbouring Austria. And then, tell me, who's threatening us, who are we supposed to be defending this weapon you're buying? The government's kind of trying with that spin. For the last time, on the National Security Council, you have somehow conveniently combined the treatment of epidemiological conditions and irregular migrations, which has given you a rather timid perspective that threatens the people of the body with external infection. I say shamelessly, because you know, we buried such ideologies along with the 60 million victims they caused in 1945. And the second enemy that has recently appeared in NATO's speech and ideology is to buy this weapon because China is at the door. In a speech on the organisation's ten-year vision, Jens Stoltenberg, Secretary-General of NATO, said: “China is at the door of Europe.” And added, I quote, “the rise of China substantially changes the world's balance of power, increases the threat to open society, personal freedoms and increases competition for our values and way of life.” [[…]] I need two answers to that right now. For the first time, as this Stoltenberg speech by security expert, the age of Dr. Anton Bebler, China does not threaten us, but it is threatened and threatened by the current US policy, which is so enthusiastically supported by Prime Minister Janez Janša. Secondly, China does not have any expansions in its strategies, nor does it increase its share of military expenditure, and over the years they remain constant at around 2% of GDP, which is relatively half less than the USA and three times less in absolute amounts. Expenditure is only increasing as much as its GDP is growing. Secondly, an interesting argument is that China, I quote: “a greater threat to open society and personal freedoms”. [[…]] I have not seen the Chinese anywhere to threaten our media, or the Chinese, who would throw our NGOs on the road, sting our justice with their finger or violate our personal freedoms in Slovenia, for example, ban the referendum. On the contrary, every day I open Twitter, I see you and your Prime Minister doing it. Last but not least today, we are discussing where you are going to turn against open society again, one of its fundamental principles is that things are being decided publicly and that such important things as investment, the biggest investment in a government mandate, which is 780 million, must be public. But we are talking here, while practically the country is completely closed and the referendum will be banned. Today you will say that this is an expensive survey, which is a mockery of democracy. When we come to the consideration of the law and to the legislative referendum, you have already taken a decision in advance in the Government to apply the amended Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, by which you have already ensured that the same majority of Members as some law can also declare that the referendum on this issue is not permissible for the people to reject it despite constitutional rights. You introduced this a few months ago with an excuse that it will be a security guard, that no one at the referendums would challenge emergency assistance to the economy and people during the epidemic, and now six months later you use this to buy weapons that you do not hope to defend among the people. That's why I'm asking again. Who is really a threat to open society and freedoms in Slovenia? The ban on the referendum is an alarm sign that you are taking Slovenia on strange paths. If I conclude with an author who should be close to you, at least to those who do not, as the Italians say, want to be just pianists in Parliament, but reflect their actions. The quote Rarely happens to lose all their freedoms at once, is a quote by David Hume, with whom Hayek opened his famous work The Way Into Slavery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for an advisory referendum was addressed by the Defence Committee as the parent working body. I therefore give the floor to Mr Andre Montenegro, Vice-President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u4	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Mr Secretary of State, Commissioner-General of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, colleague and colleague! At its 12th meeting, on 6 October 2020, the Defence Committee considered a proposal for a consultative referendum on the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army from 2021 to 2026, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Luka Mesec. The Committee took note of the proposal for a call for an advisory referendum of 24 August 2020, the opinion of the Government of 24 September 2020 and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 22 September 2020. On behalf of the proposer, Dr Matthew T. Vatovec, in his initial supplementary explanation, pointed out that it would be right to allow people to speak about probably one of the key issues at this time, whether they really want to invest three quarters of a billion euros in weapons or whether the state could use those funds elsewhere. It is necessary to decide whether the State should invest in butter or cannons. These resources, according to the applicant, would be more appropriate for the welfare and development of the country, in particular for investment in health, social services, for the resolution of the youth housing issue, for dealing with the climate crisis, for the construction of transport infrastructure and for the resolution of other problems. The proposer also considers that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted the draft law to the National Assembly without a wider public debate. It was also not possible for members of the National Assembly to take an appropriate note of the bill's proposal, its solutions and the consequences of its adoption. Mag. Matthew Tonin, Minister of Defence, initially said that during the previous economic and financial crisis in 2008, the defence sector had paid the highest price. Since 2010, the defence budget of the Republic of Slovenia has practically halved and, as of 2020, the level of funding from 2010 has not been reached. The Minister stressed that the Government does not support the proposal for a consultation referendum because it considers the purpose of the referendum to be contrary to national, defence and internationally accepted obligations of the Republic of Slovenia. In the opinion of ministers, it is also contrary to the fundamental strategic documents of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of defence and security. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Helena Rus, said that the proposal for a law does not specify concrete investments, but will be determined at the annual level by the Government. In view of the above, the Legislative and Legal Service notes that the referendum issue in the work relating to the purchase of arms, war techniques and other investments does not follow the bill and can focus the voter's attention on certain types of investment, and should therefore be corrected. It should also be replaced by the words of six years, since the proposal for a law in Article 2 provides for the provision of funds in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in 2021 to include 2026. In the debate, members of the Committee pointed out that the Republic of Slovenia is not currently in security and that we do not currently need armoured and helicopters, but investment in health care and other social subsystems. They rejected the proposal to call for a mediation referendum and expressed the desire that the Law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021-2026 be adopted as soon as possible, as this means an investment in security and without security there is no prosperity and no development. We believe that the dilemma or need to have butter or cannons is a false dilemma, because we need both, and in apparent purchases it is about implementing the commitments made by previous governments in the alliance. Following the conclusion of the discussion under Article 184(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the following proposal: "The Defence Committee considers that the Proposal for a Consultative Referendum on the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021 to 2026 is appropriate." The Committee did not adopt its opinion. There were 11 members of the committee voting against it and only three. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you very much. In order to present my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Uroš Lampret, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u6	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! So far, the growth of investment funds for the purposes of the Slovenian Army has not provided the necessary developmental leap and modernisation of this organisation, which would make it possible to urgently build the capacity identified in the long-term development programmes of the Slovenian Armed Forces adopted by this National Assembly and the commitments undertaken by the Republic of Slovenia under the Alliance. The absence of the necessary development resources is demonstrated in the state of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which has been assessed with insufficient assessment since 2013 for action in crisis or war. Investments in the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces are therefore necessary to establish the key military capacities identified in the long-term development programmes of the Slovenian Armed Forces and adopted in the commitments of the Republic of Slovenia under the Alliance, which require adequate budgetary resources over the next six years. In addition to providing the necessary budgetary resources, the law will allow multi-annual commitment to the acquisition of military equipment and weapons. The law will also ensure effective control over the procurement of military equipment and weapons, as it provides for the government to report annually to the National Assembly on the implementation of the law by the end of May of the year at the latest. The Government does not therefore support the proposal for a consultation referendum, as it considers the purpose of the referendum to be contrary to national defence interests and to the internationally accepted obligations of the Republic of Slovenia. It is also contrary to the fundamental strategic documents of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of defence and security. The referendum could have a negative impact on the construction of the necessary capacities of the Slovenian Armed Forces. In addition, he would fundamentally intervene in the credibility of the Republic of Slovenia as a member of the Alliance, which seeks to fulfil jointly agreed NATO ambitions and objectives as well as the European Union in the area of collective wear and tear and common defence and security policy. By investing in the defence and security of the country, we provide the conditions for growth and development of all key systems of the country. The answer to the false dilemma that arises in the public, either social and health or military weapons, is development for all areas, which is particularly reflected in the preparation of the 2021 budget changes and the preparation of the 2022 budget. The position that it is currently not the right time for such a law brings us back a decade after 2008, when the Slovenian Armed Forces carried the greatest burden of stabilising public finances and was brought to the brink of survival by such a position. The changed security environment requires greater preparedness and response of the entire defence system, particularly through faster decision-making and crisis response. It requires high adaptability of military capabilities, which must be capable of responding both to classical military forms of threat, conventional and to non-conventional forms of threat. If I finish. The acquisition of the most important weapons systems and the capacity-building of the Slovenian Armed Forces are defined by strategic long-term and medium-term national development documents in the field of national security. The purchase of new funds and equipment is therefore the primary investment in the development and preparedness of the Slovenian Armed Forces and thus the security of the Republic of Slovenia, since the national defence of the Republic of Slovenia can only provide well-trained and adequately equipped Slovenian Armed Forces. With the development of credible national defence capacities, the Republic of Slovenia will also contribute to the fulfilment of the international commitments undertaken under the Alliance, to which we have also committed ourselves to accession to the North Atlantic Treaty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, he gets the word "magic." Meira Hot to present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. A Respectable Congregation As a proposal for an advisory referendum on the proposal for a law on the provision of investment funds to the Slovenian Army in the legislative process, the Levica Group has focused on how to deal with such important materials as EUR 780 million for the next six years. Among other things, they drew attention to the democratic deficit in the adoption of the law and to the Circumstances of the Resolution on Regulatory Activities, which made it possible for the general public to be involved in the process of adopting legislation in the government's legislative cycle. However, the time dimension for making comments varies between 30 and 60 days. And it is precisely this urgency in addressing this bill, I stress, with the value of €780 million, that one of the key reasons for the proposal to carry out the consultation referendum, which the Defence Committee has addressed and, unfortunately, has also rejected. It is also crucial that citizens and citizens address such an important issue, which will have long-term implications. Social Democrats are aware of the great problems of the Slovenian Army. These have come down over the years. The greatest, perhaps the greatest, blow was sustained by the Slovenian Army during the economic and economic crisis. And even though the efforts to gradually increase the budget for the Slovenian Army have been stepped up during the crisis, we are probably all, including the Social Democrats, aware that it will take a great deal of effort to achieve the desired situation. During the phase-out of the economic and economic crisis, we adopted a series of strategic documents in the National Assembly for the development of the Slovenian defence system and the military in general. Let me point out two documents. Resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2025 and the Central Defence Programme of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2018-2023. Both documents were adopted on the basis of the assumption that there is a renewed economic cycle ahead of us that will contribute to a more stable state budget and that, in addition to servicing important public affairs, the country will be able to devote more resources to the development and modernisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces. After the record budget of 2019 and the favourable economic activity indicators for 2020 and 2021, we all hoped that at last we would be able to devote more budget resources to the public health system, to investments in urgently needed infrastructure, and at least to roads, hospitals, nursing homes, school and cultural facilities, and finally to the military. Unfortunately, in the spring, the coronavirus has crippled us, left us with economic consequences, and worse still, in already established health care. Nor did anyone expect such a rapid deterioration of the epidemiological image before autumn. Our country's priorities have become highly intertwined with coronaryism, even in the way that the focus has completely shifted to solving the health crisis, and unfortunately for it the coming social crisis, for which we rightly fear that we have not reached its summit at all, despite the five anti-korona packages that have been adopted. As has already been said, the Social Democrats are aware of the problems they face in the Slovenian Army, but at the same time we are very reserved for a 780-million-dollar rush for the six-year investment cycle, especially in situations where the epidemiological picture in Slovenia and the world is deteriorating from day to day. Now is simply not the time for such reckless use of resources. Now is the time to establish a support system for people to invest in health care and all other priorities. We therefore call on the Government and the coalition MPs to consider rejecting the bill at the next legislative stage. We estimate that in the next six years, if you want, a large part of these funds will be needed to remedy the damage caused by the Coronavirus epidemic to individual sub-systems of the country. This does not mean, however, that there will be no urgently needed investment in the Slovenian Army in the context of economic recovery. On such a delicate issue, including a broader view of the situation as regards coronaryism, government blackmail is also unacceptable in adopting a decision on the inadmissibility of a legislative referendum. Such a conclusion would constitute the suspension of the Institute of Referendum as the highest foundation for direct democracy. It might be further to understand that the Government in the National Assembly has reached a decision on the inadmissibility of a legislative referendum on the law that would solve the economic, social, health crisis due to the epidemic. However, it is difficult to understand the Government's intention to do so for a law in which a total of EUR 780 million has been reserved for the next six years, especially for weapons and equipment, in circumstances where the financial situation of the State is only deteriorating and deteriorating due to the contamination of the Coronavirus. We therefore favour the proposal to hold a consultation referendum in the years 2021-2026 before the final adoption of the proposal for a law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army and on such an important issue for citizens and citizens. Once again, however, it is important to stress whether, in view of the current situation, it would not be possible to do otherwise by rejecting the proposed law and by shifting the funds to health care and other public systems. We must not forget that the budget hole is constantly increasing and that it is also difficult to predict when the spread of the coronary virus will stop at all. We do not even know how the economy will respond to all the challenges ahead. The fear that we will be recut into all the tissues of our society is more present than ever, after a severe economic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Ms Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u10	Honourable Vice-President, Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government and the Slovenian Army! The Levica Group has tabled a proposal for an invitation to tender for an advisory referendum with the following question: Did you want the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt a proposal for a law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021 to 2026, on the basis of which Slovenia will spend €780 million in the next five years for arms purchases, war techniques and other investments in the military? Let us be clear from the outset that we do not agree with the proposed call for an advisory referendum in the Group of the Modern Centre Parties for a number of reasons. Firstly, this action would be contrary to the national defence interests of the Republic of Slovenia. Secondly, it would be contrary to the internationally accepted obligations and commitments of our country. Thirdly, it would be contrary to the fundamental strategic documents of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of defence and security. Fourthly, it would also have a negative impact on the construction of the necessary capacities of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Fifthly, it would fundamentally affect the credibility and reputation of our country as a member of the Alliance, which is attempting to meet the jointly agreed ambitions and objectives of NATO and the European Union in the area of collective defence and the common defence and security policy. Six, last but not least, this decision would jeopardise the necessary developmental leap and modernisation of the Slovenian Army. Let me point out that a good decade ago, during the economic crisis, all investments in new equipment and the modernisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces were halted due to austerity measures. As a matter of priority, it was necessary to provide funds for its regular operation. The defence sector contributed disproportionately to the stabilisation of public finances and after 2010, defence expenditure fell from 1.61% of GDP to only 0.93% of GDP in 2015. The trend of reducing defence spending stopped only at a time when the government was led by the Modern Centre Party. At that time, a decision was taken on the continuous increase in defence resources in the next medium term. In addition, in that mandate, the salaries of soldiers increased by more than 30%. In the SMC Group, we are aware that the current investment funds still do not provide the necessary developmental upgrade and modernisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which would enable the creation of such capacities as defined in the Slovenian Armed Forces development programmes and in the commitments undertaken under the NATO Alliance. We therefore agree with the proposed Act on the provision of investments in the Slovenian Army, which will allow the provision of defence funds for the next six years totalling EUR 780 million. Let me recall, there is also a provision in this law that the Government will report to the National Assembly on an annual basis to ensure effective control. It should be recalled that the Slovenian Armed Forces have been assessed since 2013 with insufficient assessment for action in the crisis or war, mainly due to the lack of the necessary development resources. But the fact is that we need an army that will be able to effectively ensure the security of citizens and the country and also to cooperate in establishing peace in the world. The 2016 Strategic Review of Defence already pointed to a deadlock in the development of the defence system. That it does not achieve the necessary capacity to address future threats and risks to national security, that it cannot achieve all the objectives and tasks assigned and that it cannot establish all the necessary defence capabilities of the country. The Republic of Slovenia is currently an Allied then one of the members with the lowest share of GDP allocated to defence expenditure. This year, this share is slightly more than 1% of GDP, which means that we are 25th in 30 Member States and 27th in terms of the share of investment expenditure. Let me remind you, the Member States of the Union then committed themselves in 2014 to bring their defence expenditure closer to 2% of GDP by 2024. In particular, I stress, we are talking about spending on the operation and development of the Slovenian Armed Forces, our own defence capabilities and not on NATO. This is why the White Paper on Defence, prepared this year by the Sharčev government, states that the share of GDP for defence expenditure should gradually rise to 1.5% of GDP by 2024 and that the second phase should reach 2% of GDP by 2035 at the latest. This gradual growth will focus mainly on investment and modernisation, modernisation of military infrastructure and equipment, and also on material regulation of the status of soldiers. However, the legal basis for everything mentioned above is the already mentioned Law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army. We agree with this dynamic in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. We believe that our professional army needs modern equipment, uniforms, weapons and appropriate infrastructure and logistics capabilities to operate in its home and on military missions abroad, as well as to carry out protection and rescue and assistance tasks in the event of natural and other disasters. In the use of these defence funds, we stress in particular the importance of transparency in purchasing and optimising costs, as well as the search for possible joint purchases with other countries or within the framework of European Union and NATO agencies and intergovernmental agreements. To conclude, security is one of the fundamental conditions for the operation and development of our country and society. The Republic of Slovenia is a country with a high level of security, but a complex and dynamic security environment requires us to act actively in order to maintain such a high level of security. Therefore, we do not support this consultation referendum in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Corruption, repression, incompetence, endangering lives, destroying democracy and the wrong priorities that cost the future of the country, this is the shortest possible summary of the last seven months of the reign of Janez Janša. It is also the shortest possible summary of the error of the law, which makes 780 million dollars for meaningless arms deals, a law that has concentrated everything that is wrong with the government of Janez Janša. The 780 million that the third government of Janez Janša, with a special law, is fighting for Nate's weapons, does not serve the defense of the country, but serves the American occupations of foreign lands. The financing of foreign profits, especially the US military industry, with purchases of armoured personnel, military helicopters and ammunition, while at the same time the servicemen of the last largest members of the NATO Pact are forecasting severe hardship for people at home. Every cent that goes into arms and related commissions endangers the lives of citizens and citizens. Slovenia is not militarily threatened, well-being and development of everything else. Health care experienced a crisis before the epidemic and the Yanshe government hit it. Because it's money for weapons, it's not for an infection clinic in Ljubljana and Maribor. For this amount we would build 6 in Ljubljana and 15 in Maribor. Thus, the most important capacity to combat the epidemic will continue to deteriorate into 120 years old buildings. More than 10,000 elderly people are waiting for bed in the nursing homes. We could build 130 for the sum of the gun business. But since it's the money for the guns, the older men in line will be waiting for the matilda before the bed. For young people there are 10 000 public rental apartments, non-profit apartments, of course, because the government is primarily buying weapons, it will not build them, rather it throws students out of student homes. The vast majority of people in this country understand this and three-quarters of citizens and citizens, with this acquisition of weapons and the emphasis on the Slovenian future, are strongly opposed to international weapons. But the government of Janez Janša is an irresponsible minority, which causes a second wave of covid-19 to tear through the country unrestrainedly. Instead of facing the consequences of its incompetence, it seeks out external and internal enemies, carries out personnel clearances and abolishes civil liberties. In the latest blow to democracy, she decided to ban the referendum on arms purchases required in Levica. What kind of authority is this that fears its own people? The question is rhetorical. This is a violent anti-human power that must urgently go. The same as the 780 million weapons deal is urgently stopped by referendum and human will, and resources are prioritized to target the needs of people who are actually at risk: health, the provision of older people and the accommodation of younger people. Together in the referendum we can protect prosperity and the future, finally put ourselves on the brink of criminals in power and shake them with a public message: “Janša, democracy is not your arms commission.”
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u13	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Andrej Chernigoj will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u14	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, respectable council! In Novi Slovenija – Christian Democrats we are with the work of the Minister of Defence of Mags. Matthew Tonin in the area of the Slovenian Army cut off the Gordy knot, which lamed and reduced the readiness of the Slovenian Army. New Slovenia, after many years, restores dignity to members and members of the Slovenian Army. We are proud to have voted by a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly to amend the Defence Act, which resolves the status of soldiers and soldiers after 45 years of age. It preserves the level of the paid grade achieved when transferring to another post after 45 years and refreshes the approach to the reserve composition, thus becoming an attractive option for those who wish to continue their basic profession. New Slovenia improves the status of soldiers in the Slovenian Army. By providing funds for investment in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021 to 2026, we will provide the Slovenian Army with better equipment and thus better readiness to defend our only country. The response in times of crisis can therefore be faster, whether it be to fight an invisible enemy or other crisis interventions. New Slovenia The Slovenian Army returns the city that belongs to it and deserves it in the Slovenian Society. Today we are discussing again the Law on the provision of funds in the Slovenian Army as part of the proposal for a referendum. The opposition still says that a broader debate has not been held. On the contrary. In the House of Democracy, we have discussed this subject thoroughly and comprehensively over 24 times, both Members and Members and the general public. 6. 2020. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats, we believe that before deciding on the Proposal for a Consultative Referendum, the facts contained in the Law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021-2026 should be submitted again. The Slovenian army consists of Slovenian girls and boys who have dressed up military uniforms for unconditional service of our only country. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that the Slovenian soldier cannot be well equipped and equipped with the constant reduction of the defence budget, thereby endangering his life and reducing the seriousness of the defence of the Republic of Slovenia. We have been late for 15 years in Slovenia with such investments, so there is absolutely no justification to rush these purchases. The words of the former Chief General of the Slovenian Army, Major General Alan Geder, remind us that if we do not take a timely systemic action, very soon we will no longer have the Slovenian Army. Investments in the military are necessary and contribute to the stability of democracy and the homeland, which would certainly be stymied by countries not part of NATO, for example Switzerland and Austria, which is why they must invest more in their military than if they were part of the alliance. The necessary law will provide funds for the implementation of the most important investments in the Slovenian Army. In the first two years after 100 million euros, the next four years after 145 million euros. With this law, the Government and the Ministry of Defence are merely following the fundamental defence and strategic documents adopted by the previous governments, including the NGO Levica at the helm. The law is transparent and clearly indicates a vision of means of investment in the Slovenian Army. Once a year, the government will report to the National Assembly on the implementation of the law. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats, we claim that the proposed investments in the Slovenian Army are in the current composition the minimum we need to ensure if we want to maintain the Slovenian Army. Then the most expensive security policy, the cost of other countries not in NATO, for example Austria and Switzerland, is significantly higher. Military neutrality does not mean less, but more spending on defense. The neutral Swiss recently decided at the referendum that by 2030 only EUR 7.4 billion will be spent on new aircraft and long-range system air defences. So the Slovenians at the referendum on the accession to the relationship then decided wisely, but also rationally. Slovenia wants to be a reliable member of the international community. It is in Slovenia's strategic interest to ensure international peace and stability. Our largest mission, three-quarters of all troops on missions, is not in other parts of the world, but in the Balkans, because we are aware of the seriousness of the situation there. Slovenia wants to be a credible partner in NATO and we have therefore advocated in previous governments to increase the defence budget and equip the Slovenian Armed Forces. We need a well-equipped and humanely-completed Slovenian Army not least because of ourselves. Although we do not feel securely threatened within the country, the situation is somewhat different at our Schengen border, and a few more hours of driving away we enter into a much different security very uncertain situation. In Novi Slovenija we are concerned about the opposition party that wants to disband the Slovenian Army, opposes the search for solutions for soldiers after 45 years and all attempts to develop the Slovenian Army. In the National Assembly, however, we witnessed a scene where the opposition's MP began, when she ran out of arguments, by force to destroy the table owned by this respected institution. [[advertising from the hall]] Please. It was in this Chamber that we, together with citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who are sitting through television broadcasts, were able to monitor with our own eyes how quickly some move from a verbal struggle to the use of force and resort to vandalism. This should be a lesson for us so that in Slovenia a high level of security can change quickly. In New Slovenia – we do not deceive Christian Democrats citizens and citizens with lies and populism. We will never agree to the demagogy that some people are spreading, that it is necessary to decide between health and cannons. New Slovenia is not a dilemma, the current government will take care of both. After many years of inactivity of previous ministers, we are now restoring the dignity and future of the only security force in our country in the Law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army. This has also been reflected in the vote of the Defence Committee, where the proposal to call for a major majority consultation referendum, almost 80% of all votes cast, has been rejected. The proposal for a referendum tabled by the parliamentary group mentioned in the debate does not, in our view, comply with the national defence interests enshrined in the main strategic documents of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of defence and security. In addition, the proposal to call for a consultative referendum distances us from the international commitments of previous governments, including the lions. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, the proposal for a consultation referendum on the adoption of the proposal for a law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army in 2021-2026 will be rejected unanimously. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Before we go any further, please, if you just calm down a little bit, but don't talk across the hall. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Dear fellow Members, can you calm down? You're yelling at each other and I can't hear you. First, he has a procedural proposal from his fellow moon. I'd like you to calm down first. Comrade Montenegro, you will have your word when you calm down. My fellow moon, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you. I know that there is no controversy with the position, but I think that the atmosphere in the Chamber is justifiably upset by all the things that the colleague has stated in his position, just because he realizes that there is no controversy with the position and between the positions. He says that NSI does not deceive with lies and populism, but in his position he has stated so many lies, from someone wanting to abolish the Slovenian Army, to how we destroy tables and so on, to deserve one reminder for the next time, that he will know that at least some basic credibility, although there is no controversy in positions, the colleague must follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you very much. For all those who were already upset by the implementation of this fellow Mesca, a fellow moon has made two procedural proposals, perfectly correct. One of them was to give a reminder to Ambassador Chernigo. I'll be right back to that. I will not give this warning, although it is probably in practice that Vice-President Tanko is leading, that we may be able to talk about it, but I will strictly adhere to business regulations that do not allow me any substantive interference in the views of individual parliamentary groups. That's why, Comrade Chernigoy, I'm not going to give you a reminder. Another procedural proposal expressed by counterpart Mesec is that it is consistent with the rule that in the positions of the groups of Members it does not discriminate against the other views of the groups of Members. This warning was also correct by Mr Mesco. Such a rule, I believe that we all know, and so I ask you in the future, we have a few more groups of Members, so that we all stick to it and do not argue in our positions with other parliamentary groups. Now, first, he wanted a procedural proposal from his colleague Montenegro and then forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u18	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. My procedural proposal is, if you'll allow me, because I'm afraid that listeners and listeners on TV screens because of the noise in the hall did not understand my speech correctly so that I can repeat my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u19	Comrade Montenegro, thank you very much for this proposal, which is certainly not a procedural proposal. Nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does this idea of your Rules of Procedure allow you to take it out. But I do believe that when you look back at the session on TV, you will find that you have been very well heard, and this schunder that was created during your performance doesn't sound on TV. I suggest you take a look at the video and you'll be in no doubt. My colleague Pojbič also has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, I want you to use the same vats for everyone in this National Assembly, because you're the vice president of everyone sitting here. The other thing is, Luka Mesec has misused the rules of procedure and I suggest you give him a reminder because he abused him if you listened to his debate. He discussed, did not immediately make a procedural proposal at the beginning. And I suggest you give him a reminder, too. If he suggested that this should be done to Mr Montenegro, who has done nothing wrong, after my personal assessment, I suggest that you also give him a reminder because he went beyond the rules of procedure when he gave it procedurally, because he used the debate to explain his procedural situation. That's what you said yourself. It's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u21	Thank you very much, colleague Pojbič, for your opinion and your procedural proposal. I also understood yours exactly the same as my colleague Mesca's procedural proposal, and you also suggested that I give a reminder. And let me explain to you that a reminder is one of the institutes defined by the Rules of Procedure, but the procedural proposal is also regulated in Article 69 of the Rules of Procedure, where the Member allows the Rules of Procedure to base his procedural proposal within three minutes. Neither the Rules of Procedure nor I will ask Members to strictly state their procedural proposal in ten seconds. You have also spent more time suggesting that I give a reminder to Mr Mesec. So that your procedural proposal, including with all due respect, I reject and will not give any reminder because the procedural proposal by my colleague Mesca has been completely corrected. Now, if we can proceed with our views. My colleague Marko Bandelli has the floor to present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u22	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Respectable colleagues and colleagues, high-ranking guests! Levice's proposal is a consultation referendum on the issue of military investment for €780 million, which is envisaged in the coming years by the Government's proposal for an investment law in the Slovenian Army. In the SAB Group, we believe that at present Slovenia is not militarily threatened and has no reason to increase funds for the military, but is threatened by health, economic and development. The question of whether 780 million euros will be spent on armoured or nursing homes, tanks or apartments, rocket launchers or health care will have a strong impact on what health care, housing and nursing homes we will have for the elderly. When we decide on 780 million, we decide not only about money, but about the direction of future development of this society. The law is adopted at a time when Slovenia is not at least militarily threatened, but in the middle of the second wave of the new coronavirus epidemic. This year, GDP will fall by 7.6%, and health care and nursing homes and other systems in the country are chronically undernourished. Under such circumstances, the government plans 780 million purchases of non-essential weapons, which means that this money will not be saved or created in Slovenia, no job will be provided, no assistance will be provided to any patient with a new coronavirus, and no infrastructure will be built, whether it be a road, a railway or an apartment. In the SAB Group, we believe that the commitments to NATO, which we joined in 2004, should be taken into account after the referendum, where the people decided on our membership. In 2013, the government of Alenka Bratušek pledged to devote 2% of GDP to Slovenia for defence spending, but commitments were made before 2020, when there was no global pandemic, so certain appetites need to be adjusted. The time will come when we will devote our defence spending, but we note that the time is not right for the expenditure mentioned at the moment. We believe that we should adopt a moratorium and wait a year or two for the adoption of the law to see what economic situation our country will be in after the end of the crown of crisis. We expect the government and the coalition not to use health and social crises to transform and transform our country and to focus all their knowledge on the fight against the health crisis, the crisis against the coronavirus, and at this point wait for inappropriate investment in the Slovenian Army. Not only does the opposition expect this from the government, but that is what all citizens and citizens expect. In the SAB Group, we will support the proposal for a consultative referendum on the issue of military investment for 780 million over the next six years. Humanity must have a voice in the adoption of such an important law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša is next. He will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u24	Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greeting to the representatives of the Ministry of Defence, such as your colleagues and others in the Chamber! I will talk about the consultation referendum not about some content of the law that is, of course, under consideration and which is, in fact, still open because it is simply a proposal for a law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army that actually went into this treatment to go to the consultation referendum. We discussed the proposal for a law on the provision of funds for investments in the Slovenian Army in the coming years, from 2021 to 2026, in these benches. However, the final vote was postponed in order to put forward a proposal for an advisory referendum on this bill. The primary concern of Members of the Desus Group is certainly investment in the social and today extremely important health field. However, in our country, we need to approach a more comprehensive investment in the defence field. The actual figures say that this area has all too often been left out of additional funds. Even more, resources in this area have been declining from year to year. The question whether the Slovenian Army can still provide the security to which it is committed is difficult to attach. Thus, according to our assessment, the timing of the defence sector's investment is meaningfully divided into six years and investments will establish and ensure the most important military capacity. An extremely important guardian included in the bill is the supervision of the National Assembly. It is envisaged that investment will be made available to the National Assembly once a year. A more detailed substantive debate and concerns were expressed and re-elected both in the first and second readings. This has eliminated a number of dilemmas, and there is no reason in the Desus Group for a consultation referendum to take place on this bill. Perhaps we could still understand that citizens and citizens express themselves on this in a legislative referendum, on the decision to which the National Assembly is then bound, while, after the initiative of the consultative referendums, we view it as reckless and perhaps even unrealistic. It is a topic that is populist and on this subject that can also be manipulated by citizens and citizens. It is true that the Republic of Slovenia is not a security-threatening country at this time, but investments in our army represent investments in our country, in our security and sovereignty. What are we going to get when we're threatened? That's when all we have to do is work. As has already been said, Members of the Desus Group support the proposal for a law relating to investments in the Slovenian Army, and we will therefore vote against the proposal for an advisory referendum on this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Jani Ivanuša, who will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u26	Nice greeting to all present in the Chamber, especially the representatives of the Ministry of Defence! The Slovenian state was fought in a self-sustaining war by a number of members of territorial defence from all over Slovenia. Foreign veterans are valued, but we have nothing. Foreignly, veterans are adequately cared for, which is not properly regulated at the legal level. Financial resources are once again a problem with these rights. Article 124 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia has simply been overlooked in the debate on this law. The constitutional provision on the defence of the State is crucial to the existence and defence of the State. The provision has a positive status as it requires active action from the State and its citizens to safeguard the independence, inviolability and integrity of the State. However, certain segments of our country think that they have set their own purpose. If we are against the Slovenian Army, we also act against the Slovenian Constitution. But there is no Slovenian army if there is not enough funds. Thus, the proposer acts in an eclectic manner against the provisions of the Slovenian Constitution. The defence of the State protects the inviolability and integrity of the State’s territory, which is the content of Article 4 of our Constitution. Since the referendum was held in 2003 on the will of the people to join the Republic of Slovenia in the NATO Pact, we currently see no problems. Since the signing of the Washington Treaty in 2004, the defence of the State has provided not only the Slovenian Army but also the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty. The content of Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty provides for the concept of collective defence. There is also something about collective defence - an attack on one of the members means an attack on all members of the said organisation. And speaking of collective defence, we are surprised that the proposaler has a problem with collectiveism. As with any relationship, there are rights and obligations here. If we set ourselves up with the referendum to enter into such a relationship, we also had to count on certain commitments to be committed to us. As I have already said, such a defence must be taken care of to protect all members of this relationship. The current world situation is not idyllic, but chaotic. What can happen quickly is an escalation of unwanted events, followed by confrontations. To be able to prepare for such a situation, it is only right that we are properly armed. National security is a state in which the realization of human rights and fundamental freedoms is ensured, balanced economic, social and cultural development and the realization of other life interests, the functioning of a democratic, legal and sovereign and territorially united and indivisible country. If I withdraw, national security is a prerequisite for the life we know today and are accustomed to. All these points, which the proposer emphasises will be affected, cannot exist at all if national security is not enabled. However, security is not free of charge and is not in itself reasonable, but it must be maintained. In the past, the defence sector has been too deprived of resources to claim today that it does not need basic resources. It is time for the funds to be earmarked for security, because this allows for the quality of life that we receive as citizens. Foreignly, such matters are self-conceived, and we have problems with basics. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Lenart will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Greetings to all present guests from the Ministry, distinguished Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Army, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Proposal for a consultative referendum on the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army, proposed by the Levica Group to decide whether the equipping of the Slovenian Army is necessary or not, addresses Slovenia and Slovenia with a referendum question whether you have adopted a proposal for a law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021-2026, on the basis of which Slovenia will spend EUR 780 million in the next five years for the purchase of arms, military techniques and other military investments. The question for all present skeptics about the Slovenian Army Investment Act, as well as for those anti-military activists and citizens who are few, but still feel that Slovenia does not need a well-trained army at all, is: "Although there are friendly countries around us, why do they have all their own armies, why do they have all their modern weapons, why is their soldier highly qualified, and why do some of our neighbours devote significantly more resources to their security than Slovenia, and why do they also have significantly more soldiers in relation to the number of inhabitants than Slovenia? The answer is simple. Because they are aware that each independent and sovereign state needs its own defence to maintain its sovereignty, that is, the military. The Law on Investments in the Slovenian Army received the support of 49 Members in the first reading, among them supported by the entire Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, because we are aware that it is a matter of survival of the Slovenian Army. Additional funds will be invested gradually and not at the same time for emergency purchases and non-resistance investments in infrastructure and facilities, as well as for replacement of equipment and technology that is somehow before the expiry of the deadline, but also for the equipping of two battalion fighting groups. It is an urgent investment to keep the Slovenian Army modern and capable of successfully defending the country. Therefore, in considering the law on the provision of funds, the referendum's proposers were already working very hard to stop the Government's plans to restore the Slovenian Army to a credible and well-trained position. We want such a trained army to finally get a good or at least good evaluation of defence action in the war. Conditioning the validity of the law which has been tried by the amendments by the Left Group would completely stop the development of the Slovenian Army and its equipment. The candidates in the referendum initiative state that our citizens, i.e. the people of Slovenia, do not agree with the purchase of military equipment, that they have never been asked about their opinion since Slovenia's entry into NATO, and that no public treatment has been carried out before the adoption of such a financially-intensive law, which is not true. We had open debates to which we invited the public concerned, namely the resolution of national security, the White Book of Defence, and today the commitments of NATO were also promises to our citizens and their children, whom we wish to provide security with a modernly equipped army. The proposal for a referendum, therefore, is a trick of the Left to delay the situation in the Slovenian Army, to keep our army finally impoverished and destitute, and to run away at home, because what else should be called the thousand-headed mania of the number of soldiers as an escape from the army? But, proponents, look, even though the referendum is the highest form of democracy, it can also be a diversion of politicians from responsibility. And this government and this Minister of Defence, with this support of the coalition, do not run away from responsibility, as the motioners do. Where is your responsibility to the security of our citizens, to the development and progress of the defence capabilities of the Slovenian Army and its members. The steps taken so far to improve the situation in the Slovenian Army and the decisions taken in this National Assembly will be countered again by a new measure, although this will be a referendum, so to speak out of all the previous strategic documents of several recent governments and the commitments of several defence ministers, but we will not allow you to do so, because this is a continuation of what we have adopted here in the National Assembly this and the previous call of the National Assembly. Let us go a little further back to the statements made in recent years by some prominent politicians and leaders of Slovenia on security and the state of the Slovenian Army. The investment in security is long-term and returns only when security is threatened, said Defence Minister in Cerarjev government Andrej Katič in 2017. Next, I quote: “It was taken a step further. Of course, I have great expectations when it comes to the 2020 and 2021 budgets. This will already define how serious we mean with the modernisation of the Slovenian Army." This was highlighted by the Minister of Defence in the previous Sharcha government 14. 2. 2019 at the meeting of the Defence Ministers of NATO in Brussels. The following is the observation and assessment of the state of defence capacity by the Alliance from the beginning of 2020, saying: "The state of the defence director in Slovenia can be interpreted as not important for the defence of the Republic of Slovenia." Also: «The Republic of Slovenia is a prosperous country and the inability to provide adequate financial resources for defence is due to a critical lack of political will». In recent years, four other interests have occurred in relation to the provision of its own credible defence forces and the credibility of the Republic of Slovenia vis-à-vis the Alliance and the European Union. The third consecutive negative assessment of the Slovenian Army by the current President of the State of Slovenia has already taken place. As the main culprit for the negative 2019 assessment, this identified the lack of human resources in 2020 and the depreciation of equipment as a result of the lack of resources. Moreover, a written commitment by the former President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the Alliance on the planned increase in defence expenditure to 1.5% of GDP by 2024 took place. And then finally comes the statement of the Minister of Defence of Tonin of the current Janša government: "On the account of the security of citizens and of the Slovenian Armed Forces it is no longer possible to save and we will not save." Thus, our security depends to the best extent on ourselves, we claim in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and we believe that there is no time or space for a referendum that has already begun to address the proposal for a law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army, so we do not support the call for an advisory referendum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Rudi Medved is the last to present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u30	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Slovenian Army, the Ministry of Defence, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia is a democratic republic, so Article 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia stipulates. And Slovenia is a legal and social state, as stated in Article 2 of the Constitution. And if I continue, in Slovenia, the authorities have the people, the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution, the referendum and the people's initiatives are a form of direct democracy. These are the facts. But is this true or is it true? Is it true that when this government beats the fundamental principles of democratic regulation, it is in fear of its own people? The intention to prevent a legislative referendum on several hundred million valuable investments in the Slovenian Army is obvious. It's an apparent abuse of authority. How should we talk about respect for the principle that in Slovenia the authority of the people, if it is the people who want to take the opportunity of democratic co-decision? Otherwise, the transfer of the Secretary of Defense is really borderless. At the announcement of the referendum initiative, he said, quote: "The debate on the means of the military is a step in the right direction. Thus, there will be more options to discuss what this money is about or what is needed.” End of quote. But, as he imagines it, he illustrated by another statement, quote: “This is a referendum on whether we want the Slovenian Army or not.” End of quote. And so the Secretary of Defense presents himself as a debate, so exclusive. The debate on how much money for the military and for what purposes it takes exclusively as a position for or against the military, in fact for or against itself. In doing so, he is deaf to any well-intentioned proposals in support of the modernisation of equipment and the human resources strengthening of the Slovenian Army. We have always advocated investment in equipment and infrastructure in the List of Marjan Šarc. Last but not least, the Sharčev government has turned this upside down, a trend in the defence budget in a positive direction, has increased resources for the defence system. However, no new law had to be adopted to do so, only to map the dynamics according to public financial capabilities. But no, the Secretary of Defense doesn't look back on everything, probably for the purposes of his own promotion with this law he's still pushing on and on. But after his initial enthusiasm for the referendum debate, he soon turned the panel and dramatized the referendum initiative to the extreme, saying: “I do not want this referendum because I would decide on the life or death of the Slovenian Army.” High words about the life or death of the Slovenian Army. But he made it clear that the Government would try to prevent the expression of human will from being misused by the referendum legislation, which is what has been done all along in adopting anti-Korona packages, hand to heart. The government decision on the inadmissibility of the legislative referendum on the law on investments in the Slovenian Army only confirms how right we had in the List of Marjan Šarc when we insisted that such a decision could only be adopted by a two-thirds majority. Why? It is for the sake of preventing exploitation, the eclectic violation of democratic standards and the fundamental right to express the people's will in the referendum. The situation as it is today, we predicted in advance. And that wasn't hard. So far, the actions of this government and the coalition have strengthened us in the conviction of how necessary this guardian would be. But the List of Marjan Šarc was then, unfortunately, lonely in this appeal in the National Assembly, and so today we do not have a practical lever to prevent the stampede admiration of this government, which the parties to the ruling coalition are watching, which of course means you approve. Slovenia is in an extremely difficult situation, much harder than we could have imagined since the first wave of the epidemic. And we had already called on the Defence Minister to reduce the appetites and plans for investment in the Slovenian Army to adapt to the current situation. Then the budget rebalancing for this year exposed the public financial picture, and because of the violent spread of the virus this fall, no one is able to predict the consequences. With overcrowded hospitals, an increasing number of deaths, stopping public life is not only unacceptable, but it is inconceivable to even talk about buying weapons. We need to equip the army, which is what we've been defending in the Marjana Sharca List all along. We have also confirmed this in practice in the previous government. Equipment, clothing, footwear, military equipment and other infrastructure should be arranged, and helicopters should be purchased if needed to save them, and a transport aircraft should be purchased. Such equipment can also be effective in our joint fight against the epidemic. But our safety at this point, in the situations we are in, can be guaranteed mainly by health care. Not armor, not rocket systems, but health. We were initially reserved in the Marjan Šarc Letter on the initiative for a consultative referendum, not because we would deny citizens and citizens the right to comment on a multi-hundred-million-dollar investment in the military. In view of the experience with the current government, we are convinced that if it does not work, it will not look back. She's just going to treat people like opponents of the military and the state. In any event, the Government and the Defence Minister will reduce the debate to a question for or against the military. But now we're at the point where it's the constitutional foundations of this country, and we're at the point when it comes to democracy. And the vote for the consultative referendum is a vote for respect for fundamental constitutional principles, a vote for democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal to call for an advisory referendum. First, he gets the word "proposer" and then he prepares himself as a debater, Mr Miha Kordiš. Here you go, Mr. Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! I will briefly comment on what has been said in the positions. I will begin essentially with what we have heard in the SDS position, namely that the referendum is a fugitive of politicians from responsibility. That's an interesting reading. It's just the opposite of what I think. The referendum is a shift to responsibility because all of us sitting here have been elected by Slovenian citizens and citizens and we are primarily accountable to them. Running away from responsibility is an escape from the referendum, because that's something else's responsibility. Who are we responsible for if we don't hope for a referendum? Are you responsible to Nate or to your own citizens? Are you responsible for the foreign arms industry or residents and residents of this country? Why don't you hope for a referendum? These are the real questions. Secondly, in the position of the secretary at the Ministry, it was said that the military needed, quote, “development resources” and then stated that there was no problem between social and health, as the secretary said, or military weapons, because the draft budgets for the next two years show that we have money for both. The draft national recovery and resistance plan I read yesterday assumes that by 2026, as proposed by this law, for 780 million, for example, for health care, which is actually on its knees and which threatens all the inhabitants and residents of this country, that is, all the inhabitants and residents of this country can get sick and we will need health care, and our health will depend on this system, and it will get three times less than the military, more than three times less than the military, namely €219 million for health projects. Long-term supply, interestingly, gets 103 million by 2026, although according to this government, a long-term supply per year would need 300 million euros to put around a functioning system. This clearly shows priorities, 780 million for weapons, 219 for health care, 103 for long-term care. So, health care and long-term care together get half the amount that goes into the supply of weapons. Then you say we must look to the defense of the state and that this is an investment in security. First, I have to correct you, in several opinions, it was said that Austria and Switzerland are comparatively given more with us because they are not members of NATO, and if they were members of NATO, they would give less. The figures found in public international comparisons on the Internet are as follows: Slovenia earmarked 1.05 % of GDP for the defence budget in 2018; Austria 0.73% of GDP; Switzerland 0.68 % of GDP. It is said that Austria and Switzerland are given approximately - measured in GDP, which is the only true criterion - one third less than that of Slovenia. Moreover, Slovenia is expected to gravitate to two per cent of GDP of military expenditure per year, by two per cent, while they remain at about 0.7, where they are now. Thus, Slovenia should give more than three times what you are saying than it is given comparatively to Austria or Switzerland. And here I think it's a matter to talk about publicly. Are we really ready for the military to devote two percent of GDP per year, which means 45 billion 900 million per year for GDP? 900 million for the military. Are we ready to give it up? Even now, when we give half the money, we have a splinter at all possible levels, not for health care, not for long-term care, not for housing policy, we have pre-war railways. How do you imagine that you will practically double the budget for the military while at the same time providing money for all other things? Well, it's not all going well. It is the country and policy in which it is intended to choose the priority to say what areas are the ones where we need to build as a priority so that the welfare of citizens and citizens is the highest. And as it is said, everyone in Slovenia today is in health danger, not only because of covido, but because health care is able to freeze all necessary and preventive activities. The question raised by many commentators is how many cancers will be diagnosed in the coming months or the year too late because people do not get the right time to diagnose, what costs this will cost, and it is not essential what this will mean for these people and their families. When we talk about priorities, we can see that health care will receive €219 million over the next five years and defence 780. And here I cannot agree at all that Slovenia is in any military danger, especially what we have heard in the NSI Group's parliamentary position that we can feel safe if we go to the Schengen border, and we will see the devil there. I mean, please. Just across the border are refugees who have fled from some war situations, come unarmed, come here to ensure somewhere in Europe a better life than they have had in their homelands, from which they were driven on the initiative of those forces that are the main ones in NATO. Who broke the Middle East peace? First of all, in the last 20 years, the culprit can be found in the aggressive foreign policy of the United States of America, which is the main state among those requiring European countries such as Slovenia to double investment in the military, of course, in order to maintain their own military industry, as I have already said in their position. Next. If we imagine dangers in terms of military dangers that threaten Slovenia, I can hardly imagine in what sense a conventional army with a weapon you buy could defend us more effectively than it can now. These armored men you buy are not suitable for Slovenian territory because they are meant to fight in the desert, as your defence minister has said in the end. Next. If we imagine what kind of military danger we might be in danger of, does anyone really represent a scenario by which, I don't know, one of the neighbouring countries would attack us and there would be a conflict between the I don't know Slovenian and Croatian armies? If the world's going to break somewhere, it's going to break on completely different dimensions. However, I hope that this will end in a good week when Trump flies out of his cabinet, at Chinese and US level, but it is, excuse me, much smarter to be neutral than, say, neighbouring Austria, than to take sides as your administration takes. You signed agreements against Huawei along with Trump's administration. If you're not going to drag us into some kind of pointless war, then I don't see any point in having a weapon like you're buying right now. Finally, I have to respond to these factions, which seriously point to what Rudy Medved of LMSoculated, to the unfair level of debate by the Minister of Defence and his NSi, says Matthew Tonin and the NSi party, who first said that the referendum and the debate were welcomed, and then began to incite very quickly some nonsense, from deciding on the life and death of the Slovenian Army. Once again, half a billion for the Slovenian Army a year, lady, and no one is questioning this. After the 45th year, we proposed in Levica that they remain in the Slovenian Army. This was our amendment, not that we opposed your solution. When we talk about equipment, we are the first to be in favor of being well-dressed, well-dressed, well-maintained, and it seems very foolish to throw money into some armors, and this is a huge amount of investment money that is most valuable to the country. However, if we have been explaining this for two months now, we get in the position of the NSI Group, which says that it does not deceive with lies and populisms, eccentric lies and populisms such as to destroy the Slovenian Army, we abolish the Slovenian Army, and then it continues to be roughly like the last time the opposition MPs destroyed the table when several times it hit the protest at the table. You can see the table today, none of the benches on this side of the hall is damaged, just as the Slovenian Army will not be harmed if we go to the referendum, and as the Slovenian Army will not be harmed, even if your proposal falls on the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u33	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The Secretary of State has entered the floor. Mr. Lampret, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u34	Chairman, thank you. Allow me just a few brief explanations on what we just heard. I'll be very brief. Although I did not talk about both the neutral countries of Austria and Switzerland, it is true that when we had quite a few discussions on this topic in the past, we have said that their defence spending on the inhabitants is much higher, but we did not talk about GDP at the time, so Austria and Switzerland's GDP is much higher than Slovenia. We were talking about the equipment these two countries have. These two countries also have eight-wheelers and other armoured vehicles as the basic platforms of their neutral army. That's what we were saying back then. Second thing, investments. We need to separate two things. These investments are for a longer-term acquisition of financial bonds, without which we cannot buy basic equipment, not military. Do the budget, the defence expenditure for the next two years, deviate from the plans that we have been considering at the ministry of 2019? No, or for a very small amount. It is difficult to talk about specific figures, but I would say that the planned investments for the Slovenian Army were about 80 million for the next year, between 70 million and 80 million, now will be 100. What this law brings is that we will be able to accept financial bonds to purchase equipment by 2026. Without this option, we can't buy this equipment. Is this equipment intended for the Slovenian Army or can the Slovenian Army use it in the country? The Slovenian army will use this equipment wherever it has legal duties to carry out its duties. To say that vehicles 8x8 or 4x4 can't go through Slovenia, I don't think they can stand the judgment. Slovenia is a geographically different country. So then it would be like talking like that, why Austria then buys vehicles 8x8 or Switzerland and others much more burning countries. Regarding 2% of GDP. Today, it has already been mentioned in the debates that due to the fall of GDP, we will also have 1.3% of the defence spending. Where this puts us, it's not so important about investment. That's right, on the 26th of 30. But the Investments Act isn't about when we get to 2%. We are following the current policy direction from 2018 to reach 1.5 GDP by 2024. But the law speaks solely of investments, and never will the entire defence spending reach 2%. We've talked about the military threat before. I think this is written in national documents, especially in the Resolution on National Security. However, on the periphery of Europe, it is said, a continent where we are, there is a lot of dynamism, also negative, not only in the south, but also in the east and not least in recent weeks also in the southern Caucasus. That's it, Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor to prepare Mr. Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Today's debate is not the first debate on whether Slovenia should buy armored persons or not, nor is it the first debate on this particular Tonin law to ensure that in the next six years €780 million from the Slovenian budget, that is, the money of all citizens and citizens, will be allocated to foreign military industrial complexes. Let us recall that at the beginning of this mandate, we in Levica were very pleased to have stopped the attempt to buy eight-wheelers at the time and thus saved the citizens 350 million euros. Under the government of John Janša, however, as reasonable reasoning as they were two years ago, became completely impossible. For starters. Why, in fact, does the government of John Janša adopt a special law for the purchase of weapons? I'll tell you why. Since under this law, once the contract has been signed, it is very difficult to cancel such contracts or if such a contract is cancelled, the Republic of Slovenia pays very high penalties. We really need some stronger evidence that these purchases of weapons and priorities by the government of Janez Janša are aimed not at defending the country or at the development and well-being of citizens and citizens, but at commissioning and financing the profits of foreign military industrial complexes. This equipment, which is purchased, is inappropriate or not too suitable to operate within the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. There, the Secretary said that these eight-wheelers or armoured men could not drive around the country without being able to do so. You know, Mr Secretary of State, what he can't handle are banks of Slovenian roads that the patriots are turning over. Right, since we have already seen the recordings and photographs surrounding the Slovenian public, not once, but several times, so there have been many cases, not just one, in that we have not even reached the forest roads and Augustes, for which such vehicles are generally too large, too rigid and too old. This weapon that is being bought is being bought to help Americans exercise occupation in third world countries from the beginning to the end. This has absolutely nothing to do with the security of the Republic of Slovenia. But it has something to do with something else. Each cent of the €780 million we use for weapons is lost for health care, for the care of the elderly, for anything that should be the first social priority, but not under the government of Janez Janša. When we first spoke about this Tonin marriage a few months ago in the National Assembly, we convened a meeting in Levica, one of the coalition members said that we needed this money not only to buy helicopters and armoured men, but also to restore the long-standing barracks. Well, do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that this last army in Slovenia was completed in the middle of the 1990s, this gentleman from Nova Slovenije cried bitterly. Let's put this in a slightly different context. Infectious clinic, 120-year-old building, not in the mid-1990s. The General Hospital Celje also operates in premises from 1887, at the same time as the Eiffel Tower was built or when it began to work. Where are we gonna put the civil money? Some departments in the hospital in Jesenica have recently been renovated, such as rehabilitation medicine. Renovation was done with donations. Janez Janša's government is buying weapons. We have more than 10,000 people in rows for nursing homes who urgently need care. For these €780 million, we could comparatively set up 130 homes for the elderly and meet the real needs of citizens and citizens. Because why do people in this country pay taxes? Ladies and gentlemen, so that you can then buy weapons with these taxes, finance your own pockets and foreign military industrial complexes, certainly not. They are paid because they expect the state to take care of them and their needs or our common needs. Even for the beds in the nursing home. If you buy guns, of course, there won't be any beds in the nursing homes. The same way he won't be living for the young. Every cent for an infectious clinic will be difficult to provide, said the Minister of Health in the Janšev government, Mr Gantar a few months ago. When we got one month back to the budget table, we saw how much it lasted. There is no money in the budget for the next two years for infectious clinics in Ljubljana and Maribor. Why? Again because the money went into the weapons. And with this amount of 780 million in Ljubljana we could build not one, but six infectious clinics in Maribor 15. In the first wave of the covid-19 epidemic, that we know what social needs we are actually talking about, there was an infectious section in the Maribor UKC in such poor condition that they could not really use it to provide patients with covid-19, because they could not even turn the beds in there. And you're buying guns. This government needs to be sacked and the law on the senseless spending of 780 million for weapons after the American and NATO dictatorship has been stopped. That is also why we are proposing a referendum in Levica. Citizens and citizens share our position. Three-quarters of the people in this country say we don't give money for weapons, let's give this money to health care, to care for the elderly, to housing for the young, to anything that's actually useful. And you, ladies and gentlemen, this applies to the entire government of Janez Janša, you have frightened of this human will. You've got some bad news. What you are doing is wasting the development future of Slovenia for at least five years and people know it. People aren't stupid, and they're willing to stand up to you. People want hospitals, nursing homes, some basic infrastructure, physical and solidarity, and all that the social state is supposed to really expose, not some to the teeth of armed expedition corps. And only from the estranged chairs in the dark corridors of the ministries and Nate's conferences abroad are you able to carry your weapons robots. Here, under the soybeans of the Slovenian public, with the possibility of people deciding on their future development for the ballot box at the referendum, do not let this happen because your commissions are more important to you than democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr. Marko Bandelli has the floor, but prepare yourself for Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u38	Thank you, Madam President. It is clear that there will be no consultation referendum. That's clear to everyone. But look, I would suggest something, I hear that word of dignity all the time. You mention this word over and over again, especially colleagues from Nova Slovenije. Dignity, respected colleagues from New Slovenia who use this word in every sentence, at every moment, because I see and hear you, we returned the true dignity to the soldiers when we adopted the law to protect them, if I say so, after 45 years. And this, I repeat, is confirmed in the SAB and confirmed once again and again. That we could give soldiers the opportunity, absolutely, to get their pension by being able to be in the military or to be reassigned to another job. So they don't lose hope in the system, so they don't lose their basic faith in the institution itself. You know what I'm gonna tell you, I didn't know until I became an MP. I didn't know that was a restriction. Well, believe me, a million people in Slovenia do not know that it was possible that after 45 years a person could have been on the road. And I think that that was the real dignity when we were talking about dignity, what we all accepted together here in practice, and we agreed on that. Not that we're talking about dignity when it comes to buying armor, you know, that's what bothers me here. Nor would it bother me if it were a different situation now, if today was a different situation. But today the situation is unpredictable. We couldn't predict what was going to happen. Because you know that in 14 days the world stopped, in 14 days. In February of the month, I was skiing, fair and square, and I came home from skiing, and a week later I couldn't go. In a moment, in 14 days, the world stopped. Who could have predicted this matter? Nobody. And that's why I'm now a skeptic about this today to guarantee 100 million, and next year to 100 million, and then four times after 145, yes, but I'm afraid at this point, I'm afraid today are the priorities of another. In my position, I've made it very clear who they are. They predict 900 beds on the first week of November, experts, not government experts, I speak of experts because there are two kinds of experts, those who pump our heads every day and tell us what they want to create for us some fear and fear and everything that is, and there are other Slovenian experts who are seriously thinking. But the truth has been told now and they fear that with such a rise it will probably take 900 beds within a week. Where was this government for six months? For six months, when we predicted the second wave of the epidemic with fear, fear, everything stopped, everything in our head stopped, our mentality stopped, because we didn't start thinking about what we were going to do tomorrow. But we were confident here in Parliament that the Government understood what was necessary. I reviewed all the documents, which, Italy, France, Austria, Germany, they all made temporary hospitals. Do you know what that means? Container units. 200 people could we have domestic manufacturers here who have offered themselves for this and could make one such facility. [[…]] In six months it would have been built, two would have been built with 200 beds. No, we have to make turns and scare people with this covido to then make some maneuvers and maneuvers to change all the heads in Slovenia, the institutions I speak. Because there's a reason for that. We roll with information elsewhere so we can do what we want from behind. But people aren't stupid, and we understand these things. And that's why I say here, I'm not a respected high-ranking guest of the army here, who you are, we're not against what our obligation is, 2%, and our things, because they were all that it is. I've always been here, today, now, at this point, so I've been talking about this moratorium for so long, even in my position, I've said, a moratorium of two years to see what's going to happen. And because we're talking about the consultation referendum -- there's no greater shame than for the government to stop the system, the democratic system of our country. That's the biggest shame. We're talking about democracy. You have a democratic party in your word, SDS. New Slovenia you are Christian Democrats, you have democracy as a word inside. You have no idea what democracy is, what you're doing now. It pisses the people off, not me, it pisses the people off. I represent as many thousands of people as everyone here represents, say, we represent in Parliament people. And why don't people decide on this at the consultation referendum? That's all there was to it. No, the government deliberately stopped this whole thing so that people could express themselves, themselves, to tell if this is important right now. We could also change things and the referendum question, but people have to decide, people have to decide. And that's democracy. And today, with such a government that we have, in this situation that is here today, democracy has nothing to do with it. Nothing. And I want a lot of things out of the 780 million that you've pointed out inside, what kind of investments they're going to make and why they're going to work. I've told you a lot of times there's a lot of good stuff in there, but there's half the money, like those shells I can't swallow. I can't. I'm sorry. I can't. There are no helicopters. The most embarrassing thing I read on Twitter once, one wrote, the opposition is against this investment, they don't like helicopters to save lives. Who said that? Who said that? Let's get helicopters for these things, let's get helicopters for fire safety, let's get helicopters for other things! Botanus. 50 million rounds have to be bought or I don't know how much was foreseen in the budget, I was looking inside. It's like a rocket for the new year, you know, it goes up and it's finished, and then Dad asks the kid who gave him 200, 300 euros, where they went, yeah, in the air, and that's the same thing, it's only 40 million, 50. It would be for homes for the elderly, if it were for schools, for a temporary hospital that could later become different. That's the only problem. Do you understand? That's all we care about. The one who says we're against it isn't true. We're just thinking with our brains what's necessary and important today. That's all. And for me, representing the SAB, and I think that a lot of people agree with me, today is probably not the right step to go into this phase, probably in two years. And stop this dignity, because, as I mentioned earlier, we want the dignity of the soldiers to be arranged. And we've arranged it, we've basically arranged it, and we've confirmed everything. I'm not going to talk about this anymore, because we've talked about this 15 times before, we've gone to all the boards already, and we've all given our opinions. And the worst shame the Government had to make is that it practically blocked, that it stopped the possibility of one democratic consultation referendum that should have been, in my opinion, should have been, only for that reason. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The next one is Dr. Franz Trzeczek, prepare for Mrs. Monica Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. It is nice to have such Members, and then I very much like to speak either before or after my colleague Mark. Unlike him, I knew about this story for about 45 years and the reckless transition to a professional army without adequate human resources policy. Yes, it is, we have a government and a coalition where three parties are democratic, and one is modern, at the same time as colleague Bandelli has said very well, and you are making it impossible for citizens and citizens to have a basis for democracy. Since I was a bit in isolation at home, I watched a little bit about what was happening on the website, often in the landfill, and very often written by citizens and citizens, this is the quote: “Janez Janša has published Slovenia”. End of quote. Before we raise some security threats, let us look at the political summit of the Slovenian Army. We have a chief commander who tells us through — what else? - Instagram – what? - that he has problems because he can't drill his nose like he could drill his nose in front of a cavid pandemic. We have a district minister who first happens to him by those missing trucks. And in a situation like this, I buy a story of this kind, but I don't buy a story that someone's already getting into a photo op and doesn't know if it is or isn't. That's about what I'm gonna say, and I'm gonna make Violet the best omelet in the world, and we don't even have a chicken to lay eggs or even a penny to buy a chicken. Then, in the last few weeks, some Tonin, some John Wayne guy, they make some movies about how they're kidnapping him. Please! Then we have, under Article 114 of the Constitution of the Prime Minister, the Defence Minister, a 40-year-old man in politics that people call Twito. And Mr Janša is probably still in the dream of chasing an internal enemy, now he has an ideal external, SARS-COV-2 is called, and then immediately shakes his hand and mud, in my opinion before he goes to the physiological need in the morning, on Twitter citizens and citizens who are thinking with their own heads. Bravo! Indeed, we are very concerned about the good mental, physical, and other condition of the people. If we touch on the development of the Slovenian Army, I actually understand professional soldiers. I mean, if you're 20 years old, in your own words, and there's a little bit of a promise coming from you, that's basically what I understand, but you know. But we have to ask ourselves where we are. We are in 2020. And let's be honest, most of these documents and reflections were essentially the first half of the last decade, and then they changed a little bit. What happened before the pandemic started? Then he wanted some great maneuvers to have in Scandinavia. Why did those maneuvers stop? Let's say domestically, at headquarters, two covids were positive. In fact, some 10 million euros were spent to get that out of Scandinavia. Probably more than our Justice Ministry has a budget line. And if those pennies were given for science, for culture, it would be something else and something else. Then if I touch these wheels. If you have only one manufacturer to choose, but you know, these are similar to those calls that some ministries have been making, and some afnal, what kind of car they would like to have, and they almost put in the invitation to tender, I don't know what colors the CD player or the radio should have on that car at night. Of course, I want some intelligent Slovenian army, which it is to a large extent. We have the Ministry of Defence, we don't have the Ministry of Attack, we don't have the Ministry of Assistance to the Interests of the United States. And let's invest in 30 microsatellites, we'll have a visual on the territory of Slovenia, where someone is moving, where no one is moving. I said half in a joke, but I'm dead serious, so let's let all high school kids learn to shoot well with bows and crossbows, and then somebody come here. As far as these bikes are concerned; years ago, I was given a very good defence master's degree at the FDV, and I read there a very good defence master's degree on the functioning of the motorized battalion in the Central Chamber. I've already forgotten who wrote this. At first, I looked at that, amazingly, I read everything, and that man really studied everything there, and he looked at it, and it was a conclusion — what? In the Hostel, the motorized battalion can operate very limitedly, according to the local word only on the road that goes by Sotla, where you bite a little bit into the hill, but you need another and a different composition. It seems to me that we also need some kind of reflection, some kind of military, something that threatens us, and what kind of security structure we need. Of course, because a transition was not thought out, this expeditionism became a way of saving the existence. I know quite a few professional soldiers, a soldier, and I also have someone in a narrower family who, on another line, went on a roll to Afghanistan and so on, which they value very much, I have to say, otherwise in the Slovenian Army, because the Ducks are working. When we talk about an alliance – ha, look, Turkey, Greece is in NATO, and there's been a bunch of kiddies since Cyprus got stuck decades ago. Serious German analysts in the most serious German newspapers provide information that some European alliance should be reconsidered. But you know, in Germany, because this is not – let me be forgiven – Firereport, New TV, Democracy, Sil under Jančič, these are controlled information, also secret services have something to do with, you know, and these are some stories. What I mean is, after twenty years, the security situation needs to be reconsidered, the defence strategy of Slovenia needs to be reconsidered. If the world is going to go to some low point, if some strategic, regional, nuclear heads are to be used, that's more out there at that narrow transition, if you want, between the Baltic countries and Ukraine, as with us, already because of the composition of the terrain, pure cost-benefit, right, you have to start thinking with your own head. Of course, I am a man who is not in favour of NATO all the time, I also make that clear, but if we are, it seems to me that a double referendum should also be carried out or even tripled. The most radical in Levica, and that's not Luke, I think you need three referendum questions. The first is money, yes, no, the second is NATO, yes, no, the third, but let's make a deal with the Slovenian Army, yes, no. Well, we have to have it, let's respect it this way. It seems to me that there are basically professionals here - but now the minister is hiding here, and Mr Glavas and the team - as the White Krajina say, must be innocent, not guilty. Now you're here on the floor, and of course I can pull, I can say, look, it would be better to work children's playgrounds than to buy it, it would be better than that. But it seems to me that even the story is wrong. The whole story should be stopped and asked, we are in 2020, as Marko said, and when he was skiing, I already knew what was waiting for us. If you remember, that Friday, March 13th, I told Janša, not because he was puffing up and wanting to fight with Luca in advance, but frankly, I was afraid it would be as, half as crazy as it is, but it's what it is. A man who takes revenge at 62 for everything that has or has not happened to him may not have been able to get over the fact that on the ZSMS his line towards Shkolčev has briefly drawn and so on. Because I knew what was coming, but since I have acquaintances in South Korea, I have acquaintances in China. By the time this government started, I was getting some photos of fresh graves of some parks in Beijing, frankly. And if from someone, from someone who is 40 years in politics, who is a beneficiary for 30 years, if I express myself in their way, if I charge this interest rate, this is already the budget of a beautiful Slovenian municipality, it would have worked much more responsibly. This morning I'm driving around in the rain with a car and I'm listening to people, and we can't watch Kacin, and I'm switching TV, and, well, well, in 2015, when we had that alien law, and when Brglez hid on the Committee on Internal Affairs and Public Administration, Janša was talking, see what would happen, because he needed a target, but if they were emergencies, he would be in the government. [[…]] And that's the kind of fine I fucking know, you know, even if I was thinking with a bone marrow, I couldn't create, like this government that hates culture, hates thinking, hates everyone who doesn't idolize images and works. After all, the current government president's internal enemies are also coalition partners. The restroom was wet with the respirators, Tonin was wet with the company from his mom, Karl Erjavac would get wet, Karl was smart, he wouldn't be able to, he'd try to wet it with what's third. And every day, I don't know Twito says people, I didn't make it up. [[…]] The vast majority of citizens and citizens do not use Twitter, but perhaps among the first ones I knew what it was in Slovenia, because I was professionally involved with it, but I will not be on them I don't know, it's the same as standing in front of a tanker which is a fertilizer syringe, so, come on, give me a shot. [[…]] Perhaps the Supreme Commander of the Slovenian Army should put his hand out of his nostrils and not hit the table, but say, wait where we turned, where we actually are. You know, this government is in six months, and then you bought those tutors, and now you're gonna be buying when it's thick again, so there's no condensation. In six months, there was no Janša, who had been so obvious to Trku, able to establish what the French had set up, and there was someone else who had a company that sewed those masks and so on. This also threatens the Slovenian Army because it has not actually been able to establish this. If this were a thinking government, of course, it would have stopped this nonsense if it hadn't stopped already, it would have allowed a referendum with all three of those questions. Of course, we need serious reflection from 2020. One of the most serious analytical global consultative companies has analysed what will happen to the economies of the five largest European countries, and they say that it is likely that half the companies will fail next year if only one quarter. And what are we gonna do? We're going to go buy some bikes, probably the Americans in two years are going to remind them that it's going to take a little bit of renovation, a little renewal, some other then standard, and so on. I would like some foreign policy that is, in fact, already an internal EU policy, a serious reflection of our defence strategies within the EU and, of course, our specialisation here. Probably too few of us, and every life of the Slovenian soldier is too valuable to be some infantry unit or some, but you know, Korean war, Mr. Glavas and I read it together, if we remember, then the Americans said, until the death of 72 and a few percent, hit on joy. Which means, out of 10, eight Marines are gonna die, one is gonna step on the mine, one is gonna survive, one is gonna be great. Of course I don't want a story like that. We will, of course, undermine this initiative after the referendum. But you know, but we ask ourselves, in Slovenia we like to ask who is to blame and who is responsible for what we have. Citizens and citizens with active and passive electoral rights. Even those I've been hearing for seven years that we're all the same politicians. We didn't. If you have a couple of kids, everyone's different, and we're very different politicians. One of us is responsible, the other is a syringe with a fertilizer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Government representative Urosh Lampret, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u42	Thank you, Chairman. Allow me just a few brief explanations regarding the performance we've heard. With regard to the direction of the development of equipment and modernisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, given that we are in 2020 and that these were set up 15 years ago, the current modernisation and equipment are based on the documents already mentioned today and I will repeat them and I would like to emphasise something else. In 2010, this decline in defence expenditure was essentially a complete halt to investments in the defence system. All that remained of the defence system in the Slovenian Army was wage funds. That's all. These measures were not increased until around 2015, 2016. It also took place in an international environment, which was also mentioned, this great leap with the occupation of Crimea and strategic considerations, which also took place in Slovenia, the national strategic thinking, the strategic review of the defence in 2016, where the direction of the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces was then outlined in this new context, in this new environment. In 2019 a resolution on national security was drawn up, prepared, adopted. In 2018, a medium-term programme, a 5-year programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces was prepared and, since 2016, investment funds have been gradually increasing, for all of these investments that we are talking about today, for all of these investments that we are planning to implement also next year and in 2022. It is true, however, that some of the key investments made by all these national documents have not been made. And these investments require acceptance of longer-term bonds. We're not talking about types here, we're talking about manufacturers, we're talking about platforms only. Slovenia simply cannot afford some capacity on its own. If we're before full-fledged alliance membership, I'm going to say in quotes, we're dreaming about our own interceptors, so we're also buying training Pillatus and maintaining a pool of pilots, we just can't afford that capacity. We have also probably deviated from some more expensive capacities, such as tanks, hoodies and so on. The last thought taken prior to the formation of this government was the White Paper on Defence in 2019. It points to the reasons behind the backlog of the defence system, notes how far we have fallen and simply plans to move forward. This is this modern system of development for the future. The package, which is in this law, follows all these documents, but it is true that this law brings a novelty that has not been re-identified by documents since 2016, and this is a medium-sized transport aircraft. And this is a direct consequence of the crisis we're in. That's new. All other things have been identified since 2016 and for some of these capabilities, especially for oshkosh 4x4, already signed in the past. We are now only at the time of delivery of these facilities. And we have again heard that some countries do not have these capacities. There have been many discussions on whether this capacity is needed, how much I need these capacities and so on. Now, the current assessment is that a minimum of these capacities are being bought for one medium battalion battle group. There. Slovenia's national ambition in the past 20 years has been much higher. National ambition. We're not just talking about these two battalions, that's a lot broader. So that I won't be too long, let me have one more thing. I don't think it's appropriate here to talk about the future of the alliance we are a member of or the ambitions of the European Union. However, the ambitions of the European Union and strategic sovereignty, when some think about defence spending and these capacities, are not different from the alliance. The Ally of the Strategic Commander for Europe is always the European General, always. In the past, this was the British general, who was also, in some ways, the commander-in-chief of the European forces in Europe. Thus, if it were possible or if European forces were forced to act alone without the United States of America, this command structure would also be taken over by a European officer. So our commitments to both organisations are not contradictory, both calling for greater and more credible spending on defence. That's it, chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The text shall be by the representative of the proposer, Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Now I've got to get a little biased with this attitude. First of all, it's interesting to me, in fact, what the emphasis is on being prepared, if we are to be willing, to invest in weapons means security in the future. But look, I'm gonna give you some kind of banal case. We have previously identified, and I think that everyone in this room agrees that we are surrounded by only friendly countries and that the danger of war for Slovenia is extremely unlikely. Unbelievably unlikely. But we do have some other kind of threat. I've mentioned it a number of times today. Today we have the threat of young people. Ask the students you know how they survive the coronary crisis. How many were left out of work, how many had to move, even though they were already on their feet, from their own homes back to their parents, how many had they been interrupted, in fact, by some growing up. And you don't pay any attention to them. This year's budget or expenditure has so far allocated 8 million aid, that is all. One-off assistance of 150 euros, that's all it was for students. But if I give someone a more possibly comparable thing about danger and security in the future. I think it's significantly more dangerous for Slovenia, let's say an earthquake happens to us than a war happens to us. When do we ever have to invest in the security of buildings in Slovenia, say the earthquake? Numerous research has been carried out, saying that more than 2 000 buildings have been threatened in Ljubljana, 15 towers would be the best to break, 550 buildings are at risk in Maribor, of which 39 schools are in Slovenia, which are extremely dangerous, 14 of them in Ljubljana. Do we ever talk about investing in buildings, in rehabilitation, in earthquake rehabilitation of buildings in Slovenia? I have not yet heard the debate in this House, but I hope to say that in the next 10, 20 or 30 years, the majority of the civilian population in Slovenia is significantly more at risk than the threat of a potential war. And even if there was a potential war, we'd be looking at the weapons that we're buying now, as I've said many times today, it wouldn't save a bit, not a bit. Then I can show you on Google that picture of Patricia flying in peacetime in Prekmurje from the corner under the bank. And we must, therefore, have this debate today, and I am sorry that the Defence Minister is not, even though he said that the discussions about this are happy because it is not for us to discuss the military yes or no, we do not dispute this, we say, the military yes, it is for us to discuss where to direct investments over the next five years. And I stand, no matter what we have heard in the last two months, on all the arguments that have been given, I firmly believe that 780 million euros in the next five years in the military is not a worthwhile investment and that we have a substantial number of priority things in society that should be settled with this money, and that money will run out for them, with health principles, earthquake safety is one thing that I have now put on the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič has the word to prepare for Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. In today's debates and, of course, in the original explanation of the proposal for this consultation referendum, the red thread of all the words spoken is mainly in that it is clear that people are denied the right to decide at the referendum whether military expenditure of 780 million in the next six years is earmarked for this type of expenditure. We have also heard very big words from some of my colleagues today in this House about the abuse of power, the denial of democracy, the flood of democracy. But apparently all those who use this kind of rhetoric today need certain lessons from basic democracy. And we go nicely in the order: in the Constitution it is written: “The territory of the Republic of Slovenia has a people.” Article 82 of the Constitution says: “The Members are representatives of all the people.” And the fact is that we here in Parliament have this task, the right and the responsibility to exercise this right in time of elections to decide instead of all citizens. That's what we were chosen for. Indeed, the proposer, anyone from the opposition or the coalition, has the legitimate and legal right to propose a referendum on a particular subject at any time, but a constitution for certain areas, however, restricts this right to a referendum on certain subjects. It is also legal and legitimate to decide on this right of referendum in Parliament and to reject it if it is the majority. This is up to Members, not the Government. Today these concepts have been mixed up several times, and so on, I would say what was deliberately manipulated. Those who today reject the proposal for this consultative referendum, we are simply assessing that such a referendum would be a waste of time and money, and in particular we are afraid that some pre-referendum campaign would be filled with some of the political demagogues that we have heard in this debate today. Why is he going? At the beginning, when the applicant gave his reasons in his introductory presentation, I had to listen carefully for some time and then check whether I was in the right meeting, whether this is the agenda item or whether the agenda item was the fight against the epidemic. Fighting an epidemic is a priority today. The fact is that we have a health, social and economic crisis as a result, but these are our very short-term and grave concerns. This law, which you dispute in Levica and you want people to decide about it in a referendum, is set in the medium term, that is for the next six years, and represents a solid basis for the further development of Slovenian defence capabilities. But today you do not want the proposing of this consultation referendum to be properly equipped and trained defence forces. I don't know why it's like that, but you have someone, obviously, politically, personally or I don't know what aversion to the defence forces, even to our NATO membership. However, this is good, and I think it is a plus to keep track of what is happening in relation to NATO, to monitor ministerial meetings at the highest level, to know the content of speeches or recent statements by Secretary-General Stoltenberg as well as the geostrategic role of China in the world. I doubt, however, that you have again interpreted a response from a respected Professor Bebler, a respected academic, whom I doubt that he has so unilaterally put himself on one side, as you know, China, this is a very specific topic, which we have discussed in the Committee on Foreign Policy on the signing of the Republic of Slovenia's statement on security regarding the use of 5G technology. But above all, you on the left political level should be particularly careful when defending a country where respect for the rule of law, human rights and human rights is not the first place. Only one more point would be referred to by Mr Mesec in his opening presentation. In fact, you mentioned that this law will make the country's indebtedness more than 100 % of GDP. It doesn't hold. It's a misleading claim, a misdirection, manipulation or a lie. In the draft budgets for 2021 and 2022, which are also under consideration, you are well aware that the total public debt is going somewhere around 80%, we are going over 80% in 2020 and then below 80% in the next two years. And this bill, if adopted, will not increase this debt, or the budget will adjust accordingly in the coming years after 2022. Therefore, only well-intentioned advice – 20% points is a big difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The text shall be by the representative of the proposer, Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I'll start at the end. I never said that because of this law, Slovenian debt would approach 100 percent. In the next two to three years, I said, it is very likely that it will approach 100 percent of the expenditure of this country. This year's deficit is 4.2 billion, budget documents for the next two years show that the total will be 10.2 billion, and I note that budget documents are made on optimistic growth assumptions in 2021 and 2022. These documents were prepared there in August, in September, and now at the end of October we are in a situation where it is clear that the Government did not expect such a situation as we have now. But did any of you imagine that there would be a thousand 500, 2,000 even infections a day in Slovenia 14 days ago? But who today could have imagined how long this wave would take, or given that we were quarantined in a certain chain, what effect would this have on the economy next year? What Franz Trček said warned a number of economic analysts that we have a serious problem in Europe this time, not as in the previous crisis of a threatened bank, but financial systems, but that small and medium-sized enterprises are at risk. And we'll be able to face chain bankruptcy next year. Which means that these budget documents, which in themselves show that our debt will increase by about 10 billion due to deficits, can even be optimistic. I hope to bet with you if you want our debt to be closer to 100% in two years than 80%, but I'm afraid it'll even exceed it. Another thing; you say that the proposaler does not want a properly equipped Slovenian defence force for an unknown reason. I didn't say that. On the contrary, I said that I am absolutely for the Slovenian soldiers to earn well, are well dressed and footwear and work in appropriate conditions. However, I see no point in buying equipment that does not serve the defence of this country or that we cannot use it within our country for some civil purpose. We can't use armor here for civilian purposes, but it can only be used on expeditions abroad. And I don't see any reason in this, but why, I won't say it again because I've been too many times today. Finally, when you say, you make a difference between short-term priorities, which are health and economy, and medium-term ones, which is the defence of the Slovenian state. I think that is precisely why it is necessary to have a public debate on where the priorities are or the dangers that lie ahead of us in the coming years. Now the first thing is, health, the health crisis is not a short-term crisis, but it has been dragging us for some time now, and in the covido the weak points or the vulnerability of Slovenian health care have only become even more evident and come to terms. And in order to resolve this, we will need significantly more resources than that of the draft national recovery plan, where €219 million in health investments is foreseen over the next six years. I think we should practically give these funds times 10 if we want to come to some serious adaptation of Slovenian health care. Earlier Miha Kordiš said: Infectious wedge in a 120-year-old building, Ljubljana does not have its own city hospital, but as a city hospital uses a clinical center, special covid departments we do not have and so on. In short, a substantial number of investments will be needed in Slovenian health care, not for a short period of time, but for the medium term, so that we can approximately train him to cope with the trends we have in this country. We need to know that the population is getting older, that people are becoming increasingly aware of their own health, and that demand for health services is increasing. That's a fact. Our health care has not been adapted or has been behind for some 10 years. Secondly, when you say economy, I told you, it's not so easy to say that by the new year we're going to squeeze our teeth, and then there's going to be growth again, and we're going back to some old normality. Practically no one hopes to claim this because we do not know what lies ahead, how much it will cost, and what problems we will have to face. Thirdly, today, one crisis that is definitely ahead of us has not been mentioned at all, and this is a climate crisis. We are committed under the Paris Agreement signed by Slovenia in the government under the SMC in 2016 to reduce CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere by 40% by 2030. This is our commitment and our debt to the world, and if we do not fulfil this commitment, security risks may increase, on the other hand, because the conflicts for natural resources will increase, as migration will increase and the gap between the world north and the south will increase. And that's why we can talk about where we're going to channel our resources. Personally, I am, as I would say, a globally thought-out and pacifistic man who would like to live in a stable world, I am 30 years old, and I hope that for about 50 years I can live as normal in this world as I do in this world, I would not like to live in a world as we have tasted in 2020, but I would like to live in a world where, as before, I can travel normally and where we can live without some global conflict, training and where we will not compete in having a stronger army, so that it will be as safe from someone else. But it is therefore more important to discuss how we will contribute to our commitment to the climate crisis than how we will contribute to those commitments that have been signed with regard to NATO. We need to know that we are not only committed to one kind of commitment, but on the other hand we have something else that is more important to the fate of humanity and this planet. I stress, however, that the objective of achieving a 40% reduction in emissions by 2030 is not, to the best of my knowledge, mentioned in any medium-term government document at all. And we've given this whole world and future generations this commitment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word is given by the representative of the Government of Urosh Lampret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u50	Thank you, Chairman. Allow me just two very short explanations on two statements. The first is the dual nature of the equipment being bought, and the second is that these military equipment and investments are directed at equipment of weapons which cannot or will not be used in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia or for the military defence of the Republic of Slovenia. According to the latter, the main task of the Slovenian Armed Forces is the military defence of the country and therefore the Slovenian Army is being trained and equipped. Whether the military defence of Slovenia will take place at the borders of the Republic of Slovenia or at the borders of Europe, depends on the situation and the scenario that will take place. In any case, the Slovenian Army must be equipped to do so. And all this equipment provided by the law can be used anywhere. We're not talking about some specialistic desert equipment here, we're talking about classic military equipment and weapons. Another issue is the dual nature of this equipment. In addition to the above-mentioned task with the law that the Slovenian Armed Forces has, there are also tasks related to the assistance of the system of protection and rescue. The Slovenian army has quite a few means that can or have so-called ambiguity, the nature of ambiguity. But not all military equipment and weapons, the main assault rifle of the Slovenian Armed Forces FN2000 is not ambiguous and some other equipment cannot be ambiguous. However, all members of the Slovenian Armed Forces are willing to participate in these tasks when this country needs them, and they do so daily. Thank you very much, chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word has Marijan Pojbič to prepare Tina Heferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I am convinced that there is no one in this National Assembly who would not be aware of this, because he was chosen from people, in this situation, in this crisis, in this epidemic, to work together for the good of the people and, of course, to seek the right paths and all that is necessary to help citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I am convinced that human health, the health of citizens and citizens is number one. For me, human health is most important, but at the same time the rest of the country must work. The rest of the country must also work. And today I've heard a lot about how neglected the health system is. Here I can say very clearly, the government has effectively prepared solutions, and this does not mean that there and there can also be an issue that you cannot predict. You could be a golden government, you could be who, and you can't predict all things in advance. For the first time in the history of Slovenia, we have an epidemic. We had it announced for the first time this year. This government is until this moment, I am sure, and this coalition and here, of course, would predict that the entire opposition and all those responsible for the people will step together and at this moment help to resolve this health situation. The situation in the health system is due to the click? 25 years of left-wing governments from the thirties, 25 years of left-wing governments. What did you do to make the situation the way it is? And now you expect the current government, without your support, to solve the problems in six months, everything that's accumulated in 25 years of your rule. That's amazing. That's amazing. There must be something very wrong with you. When you had authority in your hands, you could have done a lot in the health system, but you weren't, like Levi, just like all the other customers. But right now, it's not important for us to talk about what happened. It is crucial that we care, work together to help in the health field, and, on the other hand, that all other subsystems in this society and in this country, if we want to have our own country, operate. And one of the foundations is the Slovenian Army. And you're trying to teach us about democracy. I am sure that no one sitting in this national assembly could have been elected if they had not advocated democracy, democratisation. And no one can address anyone, not the Left or anyone, when we're talking about democracy. We are all obliged to ensure that the democratisation of this country develops, upgrades and that we will come to what some highly developed countries have, where the rules are clear. Unfortunately, there is still a long way to go. Especially when all those who are talking to me today, I am sure of the thought, you are attacking with interest, you should first of all be aware that this is not the time to attack, but it is time to cooperate. This is what citizens and citizens expect from us. They don't care who's in power, who's in opposition. But it is also true, thank God that we have a government that is broken and a coalition that deals with these problems. You all had your chance, Marjan Sarec, Left, you had your chance. I'm asking you nicely, and I'm not attacking you now, instead of working together. At the moment, the cooperation of all parties, all Members and Members sitting in the National Assembly is crucial. Now, Mr Mesec, Kordiš and other members of the Left, in the position of the Group of Members, Mr Mesec spent almost a third of his time on how they support China, how China is fine, how everything is oh and at all. Mr. Moon would like to ask you a few questions. We know roughly where this virus came from, about, no one can claim it, but we know about it. We can also think that this epidemic just came from where it came from, it just came from, and it happened as it happened, but it's also possible that it's a biological war. The possibility is that someone deliberately produced this story because of such or other interests. And we're about to know where this virus came from, but I'm saying, I'm not saying anything, but I'm assuming there's a problem behind here. And why does the Left advocate Venezuela first? What kind of authority do they have in Venezuela? People don't even have a liter of water, they don't deserve a month. What's in China, what's the power in China? China's Communist Party is still in charge. And, Mr Mesec, when you talk so much about students, young people and so on, I think you remember June 4, 1989, the Square of Heavenly Peace. What happened? Nearly a thousand students were then killed on the market, more than 120,000 students were imprisoned and so on, and you advocate that such a country is democratic and you tell us what is democratic and what is democratisation. If you advocate such a democracy, such a democratisation of our society, then it is very sad to sit in this Slovenian Parliament. And the next thing, Mr. Mesec, you spoke and lied before, you lied, you said that investment in the Slovenian Army would be decided by the Slovenian people if this referendum allowed me. Excuse me? We didn't stop him. The National Assembly will vote on it. That's what you said, and I'll tell you that's not true. And in the position of the Legislative and Legal Service – I will back up everything why you lied – it says here: “It can only be preceded before the National Assembly finally decides on a particular issue and the voter opinion at the referendum does not legally oblige.” So, the decision that you said they would decide to invest in the Slovenian Army – what would you decide if the National Assembly did not commit this referendum? And the National Assembly is that body that has to make decisions on behalf of people. That's why people voted for us. The following goes on to say: "The bill provides for the provision of funds for the implementation of the most important investments in the Slovenian Army. Investments shall be determined in each year by means of an annual plan adopted by the Government on the basis of a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces and medium-term defence programmes. It follows from the explanation of the bill that provision is made for the acquisition of the main equipment in particular in the following areas: military aviation, combat vehicles, transport vehicles, logistics equipment, medical equipment, communication and information system and cyber defence, infrastructure, missile system, infantry weapons and equipment. The proposal does not therefore provide for concrete investments, but will be determined by the Government at annual level, taking into account the long-term and medium-term programme. In view of the above, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly notes that the referendum issue in the work relating to the purchase of weapons, military techniques and other investments does not follow the proposal of the law.” Now, you tell me, dear colleagues and colleagues from the Left, what have you read? Did you read that? And if you've read this, I think you should leave the hall now. And you're proposing something that doesn't follow the bill at all. A referendum, a consultative referendum. And that's what this is all about? Here we go, my dear colleagues from the Left, for your campaign at the expense of the taxpayers. There's nothing else in the background. Nothing else. Misuse of people. Why don't you talk about the millions we'd spend on this referendum to put it in health care where we need it, what you've said before, how much we need social, health? Why don't we put him there? I can't understand. I just can't understand it. One money does, and the other money goes out of the same account, and not. But that one can be wasted so you don't make any decisions. Finally, the National Assembly must decide because the consultative nature of the referendum. You claimed that they would decide on financing into the Slovenian Army. And this decision is not binding for the National Assembly, and the National Assembly, by a majority, decides whether or not it will support this law, but not for the people in the Consultative Referendum. It's a lie you've told, and you're deceiving and abusing everything that's possible to try to convince people. To make people really think, citizens and citizens, that this referendum will determine whether we will finance the Slovenian Army or not. That's crazy. This is extremely inappropriate and misleading. And that at the expense of taxpayers you build your political image and your client's campaign, that's crazy. On the other hand, you say that money needs to be invested in health care. Isn't that a problem for you? But isn't that money that would be invested in this non-binding referendum problematic? Come on, let's all step in together and put this money in health care, in the health system, in the social and what is absolutely necessary for nurses, for doctors and so on. Even though the government and the coalition have taken all the necessary decisions, the fifth law for covid is being prepared for the sixth. We're helping as much as possible. But no one's saying that you don't get away with anything. We are all working to help everyone and everyone, as far as possible under the circumstances. At the same time, we would not underestimate any subsystem, but at least the safety of our citizens and citizens, their property and them. Look what's going on at the border with illegal migrants. You are opposed to the Slovenian Armed Forces, a Slovenian soldier from the Slovenian Army defending Slovenian citizens and citizens, their property on the Slovenian border. Well, that's got to be crazy. I'm sorry, you have to be crazy. Something has to happen to you. And you're the representative in the National Assembly who's against it. Then somebody explain this to me. Let one of you explain this to me. Well, that's crazy. Thus, a Slovenian soldier from the Slovenian Army should not protect the Slovenian border, the Slovenian people, their property and their health. If anyone can explain this to me, then forgive me. [[…]] Once again, there will be an opportunity to vote on Article 37a and to send the Slovenian Armed Forces to the border with the police. We'll see how you decide then. And from everything I hear, what you're saying comes only one thing, there can't be another -- in any way, it can't stop the Slovenian Army from operating normally. I'm sure it's your idea because you've been teasing me all along. You are deceiving, as you say, we have nothing against the Slovenian Army, the Slovenian Army has enough money. Today, the Secretary of State has very clearly told you how much money the Slovenian Army has. In practice, he can only pay wages, and for those, the question is what is the height. Where are the other investments that the Slovenian Army can provide, by constitution and law, certain things that must, are laid down and laid down in law. In any way, tell me, if today the Secretary of State has told you everything, the Chief has told you everything and you are still stubbornly trying to destroy the Slovenian Army in any way. Destroy the Slovenian Army so that it cannot perform its work in any critical situation in accordance with the Constitution and the law. And then you'd say, yeah, see, they can't do that, and now we have no choice but to end the Slovenian Army. These are your long-term goals. It's sad. That's why you're defending China, so you're defending Venezuela and so on, so I won't speak at all. This is crazy, unacceptable, extremely in a democratic country like Slovenia. We're not a totalitarian state anymore. But democracy, as you understand on the Left, we do not want it in Slovenia, and we will never allow it, the destruction of the Slovenian Army will never be allowed by those who are democrats. Today it was also said that John Janša had betrayed Slovenia. My dears, do you know where else you've been? In diapers when he was the first Defence Minister of Slovenia. This is a respectable man. Where were you, Luke Moon, and you were your team when you had to fight for Slovenia? We wouldn't be wearing what they're wearing up here in the mask today if we knew who shot the Slovenian people, who killed the Slovenian people, and so on. Who killed her? You all know what they were wearing on their heads and hats. Shame. It's a shame for those of you sitting in this House to do that. This should be prohibited in Slovenia. It's strictly forbidden. Because whoever's killing you, you're wearing it so I won't say, wherever his sign is, it's totally inappropriate. And this has absolutely nothing to do with the national liberation war, with those stories absolutely nothing, with any partisans, that you won't abuse it, and you'll claim that I'm talking about ideology. I'm talking about war for Slovenia. I'm from Shantil home, and I know what happened there when they shot a plane at a police station when one of them ripped off a leg, the other one I know when they shot at the Poet Bridge, when a whole bunch of people were lying dead, who was carrying, who was shooting, and so on. [[…]] And that is why we urgently need the Slovenian Army, which we decided upon when we conquered ourselves, and everything has to be done to keep it. This is also one of the reasons why I will not support this proposal of the Left in any way. We will keep the Slovenian army all those who are concerned with Slovenia because it is enshrined in the Constitution. For the time being, she is still able to carry out her tasks, but without new investments she will no longer be able to do so. And we have to stop it. She's a champion of the Slovenian Empire, and that's how she's supposed to stay. I will therefore vote against this proposal for an advisory referendum. And once again, no one has the right to abuse the taxpayer's money to collect political points, what Levic is doing now, at the expense of preventing the further modernisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which is urgently, urgently necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u53	Replica, representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u54	Yes, thank you. I've learned a lot of interesting things, Mr. Pojbich. Among other things, I was obviously 25 of my 33 years in government, that I was a deserter in the war for Slovenia -- I was three years old -- that I said China was democratic. I didn't say that. But I said that China does not endanger our way of life, because I quote from my point of view: “I have not seen the Chinese throw on the road of our non-governmental organization, so that the Chinese threaten our media, so that the Chinese will blaspheme our justice or violate our personal freedoms, for example, ban the referendum. The Chinese don't do this, but your government does it." And last time, you say, it's a campaign at the expense of taxpayers. Look, Mr. Pojbich, you're the last person here to talk about where and how tax money should go. The taxpayer's money is funding this whitewashing of yours for the last 15 minutes, which we all had to listen to, which is not worth a parliamentary debate. I understand that the cafes are closed and you have to bark somewhere, but even if I met you at the bar at 3:00 in the morning, I couldn't stand it for more than half a minute. But there's no answer to that because I gave a replica, procedurally proposing.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Please, procedurally, but let's be procedural, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u56	Mr Vice-President, I expect you to give Mr Mesec a reminder because he told me to bark. I don't bark in the National Assembly. I am five seats in the National Assembly, and I have been elected by the people, but in a much larger number of votes than Luca Mesca. That's why I'm asking, so I can't ask you to remind him. Please, why were we adopting that code of ethics? And he says "lean" and you don't stop him. Who's in this National Assembly that's gonna tell me I'm barking? Who's allowed that? One of Luke's moons that was in the diapers when we were all alone. Smurflin! I'm sorry, but I'm paying him back now, and you can give me a reminder to him.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I hope that Mr Luka Mesec has heard your proposal. And I would really ask that we abstain from such and other words that do not belong here in the National Assembly. Let's move on. The word has Tina Hefferle, prepare Andrej Chernigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u58	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. I'm really going back to the dark. The theme of today's point is the referendum. My predecessor, Comrade Pojbič, spoke of everything else. In this place, however, I would sincerely congratulate Mr Bandellium for his excellent debate and fully sign under it. What surprises me today is the fact that this authority fears its own people. You are bitterly opposed to both the consultation referendum and the legislative referendum, and you are bitterly opposed to it, or you are afraid of what Slovenian citizens think about the law that the Slovenian military in these times, in which we all point out that they are extremely difficult, makes up as much as €780 million. In the meantime, many Slovenian citizens have lost their jobs, companies are having a hard time dealing with this covid crisis in which we are plunged into it. Many citizens were forbidden to carry out their activities at the request of the Government, of course in the light of the epidemic. But at the same time, you don't want to know what these same citizens feel about the fact that, as I have already said, they spend as much as €780 million on the military as they do on anything else. Today we have heard that this money would still be needed in some other social systems, such as health, social and so on. At the same time, I believe that you are not aware, and I will make it clear that the referendum is one of the basic forms of expressing democracy in the country. And the right to a referendum initiative is constitutional right. This is guaranteed to our citizens by the Constitution. And if I go on, we have clearly in Article 1 of the Constitution that Slovenia is a democratic republic. In Article 3 of the Constitution we have written down, and this is even more beautiful than what I said: "in Slovenia, the people have power." And this power is expressed not only through elections, when we love representatives in this national assembly, but you forget that the authority of the people is expressed primarily through referendums, where people can actually make substantive decisions about the social order in which they live. That's what matters. Indeed, in article 90, the Constitution defines those specific situations in which a referendum on certain laws is prohibited. Not to read the whole article, the referendum is not allowed on laws, for example, that provide for the defence of the state. But today we are not discussing the law with the content of the defence of the state in this sense, as defined by the Constitution, we are today discussing a referendum on the law governing the financing of the Slovenian Army. This is a completely different matter and does not comply with Article 90 of the Constitution. It is not irrelevant, however, that more than 70% of these funds, the €780 million, will be provided for the purchase of eight-wheelers. If this is not to be stated by the people, then I do not know what else can be said for the people in this country. With this, I want to show plasticly that in this law it is not really about us giving people a choice, whether the Slovenian Army falls or exists if this law falls or exists. Even less so, this law, as I have said before, could be prohibited from Slovenian citizens' referendum initiative. The Ministry of Defence, for example, in 2021 we spend more than €630 million, just the second year. And Slovenia is committed to 1.2, we have previously heard 1.3 GDP for defence, so the Slovenian Army has the resources. We do not take all the resources of the Slovenian Army or propose that people decide on it. So that some perverted rhetoric by Mr Tonin, Mr Tonin, who is leading such propaganda about this law, if the Slovenian Army stands or falls under this law, is completely unacceptable and misleading and disrespectful to Slovenian citizens. The modus operandi of this government is clear, completely clear, but terrifying. It breaks down the democratic foundations, the democratic levers that this society has at all levels of society, one time on behalf of the co-vid crisis, another time or today, as we see, on behalf of the defence of the state. And I am deeply saddened or ashamed by the words of the SMC Member, who says that the referendum is a waste of time and money. Your Honor, the referendum, as I said before, is the fundamental lever of democracy and the power of the people. Not to be too long, unlike too many debates, I agree at one point with Mr Pojbič – health is really the most important moment. Therefore, let us allow a referendum where people will decide whether these 780 million euros are spent on the military or will be spent on health and health. And there is something else in the explanation; it is true that today's proposal to hold an advisory referendum, which is not binding, is true. But in all democratic regimes, we should respect the will of people and the democratic government, which obviously we do not have, every democratic government should respect people's will, even though it is expressed in the consultation referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u59	The word is given by the representative of the Government of Urosh Lampret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u60	Thank you, Chairman. Allow me just one, actually two very short explanations about the numbers we've heard. The law itself, 780 million over the next six years, has been divided into seven chapters, I will not read them again, but we have heard that 70% of this appropriation is earmarked for eight-wheelers over the next six years, which is not true. The law and the explanation of the law clearly state that of these 780 million in the next six years, 408 million are approximately for bicycles 8x8 as well as for wheels 4x4 for which contracts have already been signed. This means, as a percentage, that 52%, approximately, of all investment funds will be for both types of armoured personnel and, I repeat, contracts have already been signed for part of these armoured personnel and will be delivered in the second year. With regard to the defence budget for next year, 630 million, it is true. You know the defence budget, don't go all the way to the Slovenian Army, much of these funds are also about administration, protection and resolution. We are not saying that we will get another 100 million investments at these 630 million. 100 million investments are already foreseen in the budget for the following year. We are just saying that the entire investment is transparent. So, we are not talking about any more, and it is also in the budgets for 2020-2022, which is slightly rising, but there will be these 100 million investments within the budget. So the essence of the law is that 150 million and 150 million and 150 million will not be added. The essence of the law is that in the defence budget 100 million will be earmarked for investments that will be planned and consistent and will be sustainable. So many presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Andrej Chernigoj has the word to prepare Željko Cigler.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u62	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues and colleagues who are sitting across from me for being more respectful and, above all, more calm in the debate. Again, thank you. Because, unfortunately, in presenting the parliamentary position of this kindness, I was neither unworthy nor unworthy. Thank you, too, to the coordinator and to your colleague, for putting together your parliamentary group. Now for the debate. I believe that it hurts someone to say that we are New Slovenia – Christian Democrats with work, with our work and with the work of the Minister of Defence. Matthew Tonin, in the area of the Slovenian Army, was cut off by a Gordy knot. I believe that some of the pain is that Nova Slovenija and this government, after many years, restores dignity to members and members of the Slovenian Army. I believe that some of the pain is that Nova Slovenija improves the status of soldiers in the Slovenian Army. I believe that someone is in pain when, with their suggestions against the Slovenian Army and who would like to have a Slovenian soldier barefoot and naked, they failed. I believe they're in pain. In the intermediation, I must say that I am very grateful to my members in Illyrian Bistrica, who respect the Slovenian Army, such a great support and a huge call from young people who write to me today: “Fighting for our army.” If I move on. I look forward to the fruitful and broad and, above all, the comprehensive debate that is taking place in the National Assembly today not for the first time, and I believe not for the last time, which is why I cannot agree with the statement made by some that the debate is not in the National Assembly. As far as security is concerned, I must say that I am very pleased that security is at a very high level in Slovenia. But safety is such a sneaky thing that can change quickly. Who else in February thought that things could change this way in Slovenia and in Europe and in the world? Who thought some government would back down? Who thought we were wearing masks? I've got to tell you, I've never had such a crazy dream. Then, if we go to the Balkan area. Who thought such a fraternity would happen in the Balkans? Therefore, I am pleased that the Slovenian Army is present in the largest number there and helps to respect order. Who thought in 2007 that a weeks-long cyber attack had been launched on some countries, in Tallinn and so on? Finally, unfortunately, when some arguments are lacking in this Chamber, force is also used. I didn't see it coming. But if we go back to the border, to the border, to the Slovenian border. I live there and listen to people's problems and relive them every day. I must tell you, people are in fear, they want the presence of the Slovenian Armed Forces, equipped with the Slovenian Armed Forces. I am very pleased that my colleague has opened the subject of population ageing. I'm sorry they didn't solve this problem when they were a super-governance party. On the other hand, I must tell you in answer that I am pleased that the government has been engaged in the Long-Term Care Act, which we have been waiting for for the past ten years. On the other hand, I would like to thank the Secretary of State here, who gives clear, precise answers that are clear to everyone, to every citizen and citizen. I am pleased that the budget of the Slovenian Army is very narrow and sufficient only for the salaries of members and members, with this budget difficult, difficult to develop. I am pleased that Mr Lampret said in his debate that, in fact, these purchases were already planned in 2006, to a greater extent that these governments have not been able to meet them since 2006. I am pleased, however, that the current government will achieve this in a rational way. For this reason, I will end by saying that I will not support the proposal to call for an advisory referendum to respect the Slovenian Army and will always be prepared to defend it with words in this Chamber, with words, and I will never, ever, dare to intervene in this Chamber with a force that will also turn into vandalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposer Luke Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u64	Thank you very much. There are two things I'd like to say. The first is that not today nor the debate at the referendum is not the debate on the work of Matthew Tonin at the Ministry of Defence, but the debate is about whether to give 780 million euros for weapons. And, as we say, given that this is the largest investment of this government, people should have a word for it. And second of all, as far as borderline and fear is concerned, I'd like to say this. You planted fear at the border by yourself. You instilled fear at the border on your own. Now Branko Grimes is probably coming to the hall. Like him, with Novo24 at the helm, he worked for five years deliberately to instill fear of refugees. This fear went so far as to remind you of the incident that took place in June this year, when a walker at the Slovenian-Italian border stopped a Slovenian soldier, there was a picture on Twitter, where it turned out that this walker was essentially a market Slovenian, a slightly darker skirt, and people who believed these things asked: “Would you not replace him as a migrant?” Well, here we are. A man has a slightly darker coat of hair, and people already picture him with a knife in his pocket. But that fear was implanted. People didn't have that fear. He didn't have that fear five years ago. You instigated it, and instead of sending an army to the border, let's start talking about how to deal with this fear, which is completely destructive and which has dehumanized literally a large part of humanity, has taken away practically all human rights, the principle of the right to exist. If I remind you of what Sasha Cohen said today, quoting Voltaire, he said: "Never forget Voltaire's lesson. Those people who can convince you of such bizarreness, ” the goal is to instill fear, “can also convince you to start killing. ” [[…]] [[…]] And that, Comrade Chernigoy, is a vital message from the Balkan wars. Such discussions have begun about others, Serbs about Bosniaks, Croats about Serbs, as you are today producing about people coming across Kolpo. That's how crimes against humanity and war begin.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The replica's from Andrey Chernigoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the replica. I have to come over here because I was named after him. And I must say, look, Mr Luka Moon, I'm sorry, you have a lot of opinions about everything, but sadden me, you can't explain to me what my opinion is when I live along the border. And it saddens me that you've never been on the field as Party of the Left when the Defence Committee was on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u67	Replica as a proponent, Luka Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u68	Thank you. That's it, Comrade Chernigoy, otherwise I live 200 meters from the asylum home.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u69	One more replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u70	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Once again I would warn Mr Coordinator, you know, to live in a place where everything is nice and right, where you have a shop 100 meters around the corner, is not the same as living at the Slovenian-Croatian border where we are every day before challenges. So don't compare it because it's not comparable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u71	I'm Luke Moon's proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u72	Look, buddy, I'm gonna be so clear, the difference between you and me is that I don't have fear, and you do. That's the key difference. Meira lives at the border. Is this fear that you are producing? I don't. Violet is from White Krajina. Is this fear? He doesn't have it. You've got it because you're planting your own propaganda. But let me tell you one more case. My acquaintance, who came last, a while ago, a few months ago to Ljubljana and we went out together, he did, and there I was really shocked at how far this came, we went to a place where two boys were just darker skirts, probably Arab origins, and this acquaintance asked me, but it's safe to be here because there were two men darker skirts in the bar. Please, what a world you've created! Do you even know what you're doing? So, Comrade Montenegro, crimes against humanity begin. And this is a threat to peace in the world, not this weapon that you want to buy, this fear that you're spreading and you're giving it silence, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u73	It's a replica. Mr. Chernigoy, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the replica. I'm going to take a very calm response here. I'd like to ask my colleague Mesca, in our environment, there have been a lot of people who have broken into their homes, into holiday accommodations. Be so kind and show compassion for these people in this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word has Željko Cigler, prepare the mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government, representatives of the Slovenian Army, nice greeting! Today we are talking about the point of the Proposal for an Advisory Referendum, one of the biggest investments in Slovenia recently. That's what we're talking about. Whether we will give citizens and citizens the right, the possibility, or their sovereignty, the decision to say what they think about this investment at the present time, in which Slovenia is now in a practically uncontrollable health crisis, as it all appears, with severe economic, social consequences, bloated culture and art, with people living at home who are locked up in fear because they do not know what will happen from hour to hour, with people with whom the existing authority is enforceable, acting in such a way that it takes any dignity and dignity. That's what we're talking about right now. And these people should be given the opportunity to say what they think about this investment for the future in the Slovenian Army, which they want to verify by law. Why is this basic democratic mechanism always being challenged? I don't know. Are you afraid of democracy? Coalition, government, are you afraid of people's opinions? People's opinion, I am talking about the people, the people of Slovenia, who have never been able to and do not decide on our commitments to NATO. I am talking about people who have been identified by three quarters against the purchase of weapons at this time, with all due respect for the Slovenian Army and taking into account what the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces has said, respect for them, of course: "First we must build a consensus on what we want from this army." And the Secretary of State, Mr Lampret, whom Mr Chernigoj said he was giving clear answers, he told me a little while ago in this National Assembly that these means of complementing those weapons and buying the weapons that the Ministry of Defence is already receiving. There's about 100 so far in this contingent, about 500 million, I can think of, but this sum is going to increase. And we're giving these 780 million more. And when I spoke earlier about the uncontrollable health crisis in the world and in Slovenia, in which it is now located, we were told earlier on the Committee on Health by representatives of the Government, the Ministry of Health, that we were faced with a fact or enlightened that the exit between 9 a.m. and 6 a.m. is not a curfew, but an epidemic clock. Well, thank you for telling us that. The fact is that yesterday Mrs Bojana Beović, a doctor, I respect her, said that some of us are making illusions about the construction of new hospital facilities. She said, excuse us who we will hire in these facilities, if we are practically on the tail in Europe by the number of doctors per 100,000 inhabitants or a little less problem is the number of sisters. The health system is barely working for us. That's what the representative said or the expert voice of this government. And I believe her that's true. And Mr Matjaž Gantar, Minister of Health, asked me whether he had prepared an investment programme to strengthen health in Slovenia, replied, no, we do not have it because we do not need it. Hello, are we aware now that we're talking about what condition we're in? And the fact is that money has to be spent primarily on people's lives and health in this country, on infectious clinics, because the question is whether it's the last infection. And, colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to tell you what I told my colleague Dimic the last time about the health situation. Cancer patients who have become less and less diagnosed and therefore die in severe pain must pay for their medicines in this democracy today, medicines without which they cannot live. Pressure medications, cholesterol and so on, these are things that many people in this country need to get in pharmacies. They've come to a positive list and more and more pay is required. Hello? We're giving 780 million dollars to the military right now, which I respect, which is not badly armed, and it's not true that we don't get money to buy weapons. And if the president of Borut Pahor gave a negative assessment of his army as commander-in-chief, he should ask what assessment he would give to Slovenian health. How will he decide? Are we going to give up for weapons, or are we going to give for health, for people's lives? And now I tell you, there are a lot of people at home who are unemployed or who are going to lose their jobs because this health crisis around the world is going to have serious economic consequences. How much money will we spend on the liquidity of the economy in Slovenia, for maintenance, to guarantee jobs? Or you see how many people at this point, educated, have jobs, just don't have anything to eat at home. 41 000 children in Slovenia live below the poverty line. And the Minister of Education does not have this ability to provide these children, who are from socially affected families and who are provided with school meals under the School Food Act, which we in the National Assembly, thank God, with meals and school lunches, now that the children are at home when the schools are closed. Why is that not ensured? Colleagues and colleagues, why aren't we talking about this? This is the problem of Slovenia now and here. And when Mr Pojbič explains to me, this is democracy, because we do not need a referendum, we Members have been given the authority to decide between the elections. Look, that's not true. Elections were held by elected parties who strongly oppose Jancist politics. It's a policy that subjugates the military, the police, the judiciary, the media. Why? To preserve his authority and to strengthen it. That's why you need guns. All respect for the Slovenian Army and its needs to be properly armed, but surely this investment is absolutely inappropriate at the moment. And if we don't believe this, if we can't make a decision in the National Assembly, let's ask those who gave us a mandate. These are citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and they have the right to tell the referendum what they think. That's the only thing we're talking about right now. Who doesn't get it, I think he's got a bit of a problem. But the fact is, these things, and this is the cruel truth of today's day, not the government's decision, not the coalition's decision, all that happens there, are the personal decisions of John John Janša. I've worked with John for several years, and I know him well. I hope Slovenian democracy wins in this case. However, I believe that many of you are afraid to express your opinion also from the types of existing government, because you are aware that if you show only doubts, you will first regret it, then discredit it and then eliminate it. This form of authority, however, cannot be the case in Slovenia, and the National Assembly must not give power in such a form of authority and in such a dictatorship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Lampret, Government Representative, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you, Chairman. Allow me only a brief explanation of the figures mentioned and whether these investments foreseen by the law are in some way new funds for the already existing budget foreseen for the following year or for the next two years. The answer is no. I was talking about approximate funds. Approximately 550 million is the budget of the Slovenian Armed Forces for the following year, according to 2021. Of these, approximately 100 million are foreseen for investments. There will be no new 100 million on this 550 or 300 million. So, as I was trying to say before plastic, now for the next two years, if you ask me directly whether or not you need this law for the next two years, these investment funds have been planned before and also projects have been largely completed, not all prepared already in advance. It is true, however, that the law is important for the adoption of certain financial bonds for 2023, 2024, 2025 and 2026. And this budget will not grow exponentially. This is not going to be some new investment for the already envisaged investments. And a lot of these investments, although we talked about numbers before, were exposed to armored 8x8, armored 4x4, that's about 52% of the total over the next six years. A significant part of these funds goes to other matters. If I go back, in 2010, I also talked about this today, in that financial crisis, all the assets of the Slovenian Army were taken overnight, not just for investments, including for operations, training and so on, all the funds. It is said that this law makes it possible to determine the urgently needed investments, which are in some way a backward investment, will not be taken overnight, will not be taken overnight. And defence spending will not increase exponentially, but the defence budget will not only be raised by raising investment funds that remain entirely around 20% annually in defence spending. Defence spending will also increase if we manage to reverse the trend in employment in the Slovenian Army. It is also necessary to train and maintain the Slovenian Army's infrastructure. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u80	Thank you. More than one example of deception not to say a lie, we have a government side that is monitoring the adoption of a law that will set aside €780 million for weapons. Among other things, why this money will go. Only armoured men representing the lion's share of this amount amount to over EUR 400 million, more than half of that amount. Armoured people who can't even walk along Slovenian roads, at least on some forest trains across Pokluko. We also saw photos of the patriot in the ditch on the usual roads. There are helicopters here that are not helicopters to protect and rescue, but they are armed helicopters to the teeth for the needs of special forces and more. In short, this EUR 780 million is not a heavy amount for an army, it is not an amount for protection and rescue, it is not an amount for the welfare of citizens and citizens, but it is mainly a weapon.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Representative of the Government, Mr. Urosh Lampret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u82	Thank you, Chairman. I don't understand very well now if you can help me. Now I've been accused of lying. A few minutes ago, I was talking to myself about 52%. The figure was pointed out to be 70 % of the planned amount over the next six years for two types of armoured personnel. At that time, I made it very clear to myself that EUR 408 million of the planned 780 was 52% of all funds. That's what I said very clearly. So I don't understand exactly if you can help me, when a lie came from my side.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u84	Mr. Secretary, I didn't say you're lying right now. I said that the adoption of this law, which will give 780 million for weapons, and this money will come from the mouth of hospitals, the home of the elderly, and so on, accompanied by lies. And those lies were a small sea. Among other things, let's say the position of Minister Tonin or the whole government that money will be enough for both health care and weapons. Then it turns out that for weapons a special law is passed, that health care should be financed by European funds and that these European funds are not 10 billion or 12 billion, as the Government says, but are in fact only good 3 billion euros for the next 7 years. In short, we have money for weapons, and we don't have the money we could use to strengthen the public health system. These are also lies signed by the current government, including Minister Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! If demagogies were to burn, what the applicants of this session are doing today in the last few hours, they could warm Europe as well. I'm sure of that. But most of all, they say numbers and look at the comparison. We are now talking about the Slovenian Army getting a good 100 million extra a year for investments in equipment. We need the Slovenian army, because security is one and indivisible. In recent years, they have given a very eloquent witness and have convinced all those who believed that Slovenia is not at risk of anything and that there will never be any security challenges again. As many security challenges as there are now, it has not been all since independence, since the victory in the self-sustaining war. And something else has come up; the equipment can only be itself, we can't count on anyone. Others will help us if we help ourselves first. If that is not the case, things will end badly for Slovenia. The army is a pillar of statehood. It's a pillar of security. And the army needs three. He needs people, well-paid, respected people. He needs real soldiers. A soldier fights with his heart, but he also fights with his weapon, and that's why he needs the right equipment. It needs investment and these investments are the subject of what we are dealing with today. The third thing that is often forgotten is the prerequisite for everything I have just talked about, but they are values. The value of patriotism has always been in the words of everyone in the first place. Also all the Presidents of the Republic of Slovenia so far. But when this value of patriotism needs to be applied, a problem arises. But suddenly there are a lot of questions, whether we need an army at all, we've been listening for a long time, now we're listening to demomogies about how we're setting up some kind of aggressor army. One aggressor army was indeed in this area, called JLA. She was wearing a red star and a sickle and a hammer. But the Slovenian army has defeated this army. And it will be very difficult to convince me that there is not one part of this demagogism that we are witnessing today, justified precisely by the fact that the Slovenian Army was the winner in the most glorious conflict in Slovenian history because it gave us what we wanted for a thousand years. It's your country. And we could appreciate that more. We have our own country, but our country is not just given. The state needs to be defended. The state needs to be built. The State must be established as a country of security and prosperity for the people. And that's really what this is about. Thus, it is necessary to build on values as always necessary. But if he wants to build on values, the first thing is to put things in the right place. And that makes two comparisons. Earlier, it was mentioned that it was not a problem for someone to strike across the border, that it was said by the proponents that the poor were coming. I would point out that in 2016 the budget, which was only then transparent, provided 116 million for those who illegally invade the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. It is said that for a foreigner who illegally invades the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, who is therefore an aggressor who is a criminal to use the right terms, 116 million is not a problem, but the same sum for the Slovenian Army is a terrible problem. For a foreigner everything, for a home, for a domestic man, for a Slovenian, a Slovenian, a citizen, and a citizen nothing. What kind of logic is that? Where are the values now? This is false humanism, which, of course, hides something else. He hides different desires, desires for money. And that's why it's a different comparison. We live in a very strange country, at least I do not know that there would be anything like it, where from budgets, watch out, at different levels, I talk about European, Slovenian and municipal, if you add it up, they get so-called NGOs about 1 billion euros a year. This comes from their own reports, such as last year's, and the sums, it says, are billions of euros per year for NGOs. For the Slovenian Army, less than half this money for about a year. And now we are talking about the problem here being an additional investment, even though the military has shown that the funds it receives are still being used to benefit people. When it was spring that there wasn't enough room, she set up a mobile hospital. Some of you mentioned armored men. At least so much could be known that when there was a severe catch there in Gorenjska, people from Kranj to Jezerski and back several days were transported to the armory of the Slovenian Army. It is said not to mention that this is a matter that is not useful for civil purposes as well. Similar was the case with other large bites, along with the acorn and all others, where the Slovenian Army also mediated. Of course, the first condition for this is that we have it, and the second is that it is also properly equipped. And that's really what we're talking about today. Well, but when I mentioned a billion for NGOs, now about, some say that even a large majority, about 27,000 of them, 28 thousand about this year, some say that a large majority, the most modest estimate is that about one third, is based on cultural Marxism, LGBT ideology. You know, they're the ones who go down to Bosnia and encourage illegals to come to Slovenia, they promise to help them here, they give them instructions. All of this is documented, even in statements, if you like, I can re-present them, I already have them once. So they're essentially putting Slovenia in a position where there's more violation of the law and there's more danger for everyone, for those who come, and for those who live here. Does Slovenia benefit from this? I'm sure you don't. It's that fake humanism again, some of which live very well. What makes you think that billions of euros are needed for NGOs? Well, if we said that there's only about one third of them, there's definitely more than one billion of them, that's 300 million euros. And if we should give something to the referendum, ladies and gentlemen, then it should be a referendum question: Are you in favour of the money from funding those non-governmental organisations based on cultural Marxism, LGBT and directing and encouraging illegal transitions to Slovenia and other activities that are unacceptable in terms of values, that this money is diverted, for the first time, for the Slovenian Army, and because it will, believe it, be enough, it will remain for the hospitals, and that will remain for the homes of the pensioners, because 300 million euros is the money of the giant, enough for the Slovenian Army to stay for the hospitals, and that will remain for the homes of the pensioners that we can build in any major city without problems if this money is then properly diverted? Well, a referendum like this would be really interesting, consultative. Applicants, I believe that they will not agree to put it in such a way that it takes money and redirects it for border security, for the safety of Slovenia, for the Slovenian Army and for the construction of homes for pensioners and for the construction of hospitals and for everything else that Slovenia needs. That's what a referendum would be. But if the candidates disagree, it may be an idea for the Slovenian government or a coalition in Parliament on my part to prepare one such consultation referendum and to make it happen, because the money in this country is enough, it is only spent on such nonsense that it cannot be said. And another thing, earlier it was said that the problem was that it wasn't the staff, that it wasn't the doctors. That's right. But why aren't they here? Because the salaries of everyone, including doctors, are often said to have too high wages, especially medical personnel, and also the salaries of all other employees, if you want everyone who sits here, everyone in Slovenia, are really too low in terms of the duties that have already been paid in Slovenia? Do you know what the problem is? Most of all, the comparison between Goreńska and neighbouring Austria. Gorenska was three times more developed by World War II, under some criteria even four times more developed than neighbouring Austria. Not a third, it was three times more developed according to economic standards. Where is Austria today and where is Gorenjska and where is Slovenia today? And because you had so much to say about what we're exposed to today. Who really destroys prosperity in this country, why do we live worse than we could? Because Slovenia has been drinking blood viruses, bacteria and parasites for 100 years. That is the problem, ladies and gentlemen, in socialism, which has thrown us down and made us pay even lower wages today and worse than we could have had. The most absurd thing is that so many times it is offered as a solution to the exit from socialism is even more socialism. That's preposterous. And that's why I end up there, when I said today, who listened to the proposer, in particular some of the most fiery debates, if demagogies were to burn, could even warm Europe. I personally will not support this referendum in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić has the word to prepare Jerca Korča. Here you go. Easy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I can see it's my turn sooner than I expected, and I'm glad. In the previous term, we have heard many times since the CAP. The CAP has been used many times. It was a shortcut to a healthy farmer's mind. In this mandate, since Janez Janša has been in power, we do not have a healthy farmer, but at least a clever one. Because someone in their right mind would buy weapons in the middle of the worst medical crisis. Of course you're talking about security, we're all about taking care of the safety of citizens and citizens. But I'm asking you, is it safety to preserve the health and life of people or is security a weapon that sows death? And is today really the time for the government to be able to blow up our taxpayer money to a large, 780 million, poof in the air? Buying expensive toys that will soon be useless old iron? and do not say that it is an investment in the Slovenian Army, that it goes into investment. Investments are being paid off. Old iron and weapons are not repaid. Well, poof, he squirms, kills someone and soup. And very soon all these weapons will be old and useless, just as they were useless respirators that we received during this government and in the wake of this health crisis, we need to upgrade them. We're interested in who this government works for. Apparently for the pockets and commissions of some friends. We saw this in the purchase of protective equipment, in short, when the ministers of this government were collecting commissions. Why is there so much aggression there if we expect a referendum if we expect a democratic process, if we expect citizens and citizens of Slovenia to decide at the referendum on this historic largest purchase of weapons in Slovenia? Because it's about money because it's hard money, 780 million. Count what fees will be here. And whenever Janez Janša is in power, commissions fly to heaven. And we who read something else, not just the media financed by foreign dictators, but we know that the books talking about who sold out the weapons of the Territorial Defense, the money that went there, and the book of Fraud Slovenia, the Domolybe book, written with zeros and so on. In short, it's a war profit, as with covid's equipment, as it is here now. You know, we're getting sicker and sicker now, but we don't have an infection clinic. What has this government been doing for seven months? I really don't know. I know what he was doing. She was putting away people, personnel cleaning, doing a lot of things at the time, taking over the media, throwing out civil society, destroying the cultural sector, and so on, nothing to solve the epidemic. And our medical staff is exhausted, that's what they tell you everywhere. Hospitals are blocked because of covid, we're under-staffed. There are more and more elderly people waiting for bed in homes for older citizens. There's 11,000 waiting. We're not building new homes for the elderly, but no, but we're going to buy new patriots. And we know very well how it ended with the patriots, but not in the previous term of John Janša. Of course, this time Pompeo, an agent of the CIA, comes along like he likes Bled so much, and they deal. We also know that American weapons will not be under scrutiny, like Finland. We have a lot of young people who are out of jobs, without compensation, who are predators who have to open espies and get nothing. They're young with no housing, no perspective. Our country doesn't build apartments. And then some politician dares to say they're soft because they live up to the age of 30 with their parents. Where are they supposed to go? In short, we have a lot of problems. If we're just going to school, how many kids can't go away today because they don't have Internet at home. They don't even have a computer. But our government will buy armor, damn it! It's no problem, take care of our army, take care of the defense, take care of the Civil Protection, don't drop the Civil Protection Commander, help the fire department. No, no, no. I mean, I find it very disrespectful that Minister Tonin is not here today. Apparently, he doesn't like to face this debate. But we were very aggressively attacked here by a representative of New Slovenia. You know, the Pope urged you, Christian Democrats, not to invest in weapons and death. On the radio of the Fireplace, colleague, cross yourself, and I used to crucify myself, he said: "Now war is death." Isn't the Pope real anymore? I hear he's unmistakable. Well, I hope he's not left-handed. And then you talked here about the Russians, about the Chinese, of course, if Pompeo comes, he says, don't do business with the Chinese, they're uuuuuu, fun fun, but now we'll take 5G technology better than the Americans, and we'll buy weapons better than the Americans and now you're saying that we're independent. And our Tweeto, the President of the Government, who is embarrassing us whenever he wakes up in the morning and sits for his, I don't know, phone or computer, supports the impatient Trump and it attacks the wrong people and shoots at the average and supports Nate's ambitions and goals. In short, this is more than a disgrace to Slovenia. It's true, not the Russians, not the Chinese don't threaten us. And when you talk about how many Chinese killed on Tiananmen. How many in the United States were genocides against native Indians? Where are we going? It is permissible that you lie that the Left wants to disband the army. I mean, you need tanks to fight -- against whom? And then you say that we vandalistically destroy social property if you cut our democracy, and we want to hear and make noise in this room when they take democratic rights as members of the opposition to debate here. And then, of course, the video launches your SDS MP, who's drunk in a work car and threatened people's lives that I destroyed social property. The pencil is mine, but it's not worth a single euro. You're putting 780 million on the scale. That's a shame. Shame. And indeed, here you say it is the life or death of the Slovenian Army. I mean, it's a shame. The credibility of our country. Do you know how many times I've heard this syntagm of credibility? Every time we had to sell the company, we cared about the credibility of the state. When we were selling banks, we were concerned about the credibility of our country. In front of who? I ask you, to whom, apart from our citizens, must we maintain credibility? When I hear that the interests of our children, the elderly, citizens and citizens must be sacrificed to some kind of credibility towards some foreigners who are questionablely credible, I always accept the wallet. And I'm really worried about this spread of hateful false news, fear over there on the right. You know, this has never brought any good. The spread of hatred, militarization, never in the history of mankind brought any good. And now I understand, it's easier to understand some sad historical facts, when certain groups of people with hate propaganda were so humanized that they were then exposed to people's coffins and intolerances against them. In short, the referendum. You used to tell us there would be another Switzerland, a referendum in Switzerland is common to all things. And the referendum is a form of democracy, a constitutionally assured democracy. Not only once every four years, where you tell the voters, but we will never go to the impatient government of John Janša, and then you go and four years people have no power at all to do anything. The referendum is when people need it. And you've seen a lot of people say what three quarters don't support your arms purchases now. Certainly not now that we have so many other health priorities. In short, you take the right to democracy from the three parties of the coalition, which you have democracy in your name, the Democratic Party of the Retired, the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Christian Democrats. There is no democracy in Slovenia since this government has been in power. And you know, the spokesman for the Slovenians said earlier to his colleague Pojbich. Do you know what the guard of the vocabulary has always been and always will be? You won't defend the country with weapons, with no weapons, and you can think of an atomic bomb. It'll cost us a lot of money. We'll be hungry for it. The only defender of the vocabulary, my dears, is a culture that this government does not respect, does not like and takes for its enemy. And your Prime Minister says we don't just need an army at the borders of the country, we need it inside too. Against whom? Against your own citizens and your own citizens? Will refugees be persecuted on Ljubljana streets? Or bikers? But who? You know, I'm very concerned about this kind of authority, and I don't admit it, because it's not going anywhere. The only thing that is essential today is that citizens and citizens must be able to make democratic decisions. For the largest investment in the history of independent Slovenia, it is necessary to ask people, especially today, when facing the crisis, when people are unemployed, when there is a lot of hunger and misery, there is really no time for investments, as you call them. In fact, this is the interest of the arms lobby, no investment. This is no time to buy weapons for Nate's missions abroad. This is not the But it's time to take care of it within our borders. Yes, buy a helicopter that will save lives that will drive to a clinical center, buy, I don't know what our army needs, and don't say we're opposed to the Slovenian Army because that's a lie. Fat lie. We are for all that is reasonable within the borders of our country, but we do not need 780 million for foreign interests, for foreign missions. No, not right now. If we want to be Switzerland in anything we've ever talked about and promised us, then at least let the referendum happen to people, because it's a long time before the election.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The replica of Andrej Chernigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. President, for the floor. Look, I have to respond because I somehow recognized myself in those words of my colleague. Look, I must tell you very clearly that with your arguments, I understand your arguments very clearly, you are against the Slovenian Army, you are against all members and members of the Slovenian Army. And secondly, I find it very unacceptable that, when you have no arguments, you also begin to mention faith in Levica. That's very nice of me, on the other hand. And finally, when there are no arguments, you also use force in this room. That's why I have to say, I've never made a name for myself, and I've never done anything by name that has been used by names and surnames, but I'm glad you recognized yourself in my words. And instead of repenting, you have made a rudely loud statement of your disagreement between my submission of the parliamentary position. This was very embarrassing for me and the public. I must say that, in my opinion, with such acts, you are even more likely to say that you are against the Slovenian Army and this Member by your conduct - what does it indicate? That he is the weakest member of this esteemed congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Procedurally Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u92	Look, I ask you to warn the Member, if we have said every time, we are not against the Slovenian army, let him not lie; for lies are a great sin. And of course Jesus was a socialist, and certainly we are more Jesus than you are Christian Democrats. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u93	As for the warning, leave me to chair the session, I don't need any advice, I'm qualified enough to do that. However, I would like to say that I have warned that Slovenia will not be preserved by ulgarizators of Slovenian culture, but by culturers. I now give the floor first to the representative of the Government, Secretary of State Urosh Lampret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u94	Thank you, Chairman. Allow me just two brief explanations on two statements. The first is about the old iron and the second is about the replacement of the Civil Protection Commander. Regarding old iron; now in defending investment, when we talk about investments, these are investments in equipment with a life expectancy of 25 plus years, 25 to 35, 40 years. The Slovenian army is currently based on investments made in the Slovenian Army at the end of the 1990s. We could go more specifically; these are the battle vehicles of wave 6x6, these are the helicopters that were bought then and so on and so on. I wouldn't go into too much detail. When we talk about investments, they're also investments in our security. Our assessment is that security is the basis for everything else. As for the statement that the Civil Protection Commander has been suspended, I must categorically deny that this is not true. The Civil Protection Commander has not been suspended. No powers have been withdrawn from the Civilian Protection Commander. We have Mr Srečko Šestana, commander of Civil Protection with full powers and full confidence in the leadership of the Ministry. However, speaking of this, it is true that Mr Šestan also led an internal organisational unit in the Office of Protection and Rescue, which is called the Office of Operational Affairs. He was working this case temporarily because this same chairman of this office was in a longer hospital. And now another man has been placed on this internal organizational unit, which is the Office of Operations. And Mr Šestan will be transferred to the Minister's office with full powers as Civil Protection Commander. So many presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The word is by the representative of Jerz Korca. It will be discussed by Ambassador Iva Dimic. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u96	Thank you very much, chairman. In many debates so far, we have essentially moved away from the key point that we have on the agenda today, namely the consultative referendum. We're not talking about the content of the law. This could probably be a talk in the campaign if it was about the referendum, and that's what we're talking about when we're adopting this law. And in our country, we have the possibility of an advisory and legislative referendum. I agree with what assessment that a poll that does not bind the government is absolutely true. Although I do not agree that this is a expensive survey, because not least these 3 million, it goes mostly for people who work on voters, and each of us who went to voters or even worked there knows that these are not now some people of high status, but it's some extra profit that citizens and citizens get, so these 3 million go practically to people and it's a problem of engagement, so it's some kind of demagogy around it. But I have one problem now that I've said how I feel about the consultation referendum. In August, the minister called on Levica to gather signatures for the legislative referendum because it was a consultative referendum after his expensive poll. Everything's fine and fine. In October, however, the Government shall adopt a decision on the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum. Well, here's the problem. And it is not a matter of content, it is not a matter of what my opinion is on investment in the Slovenian Army, nor of the fact that space and time at this point is absolutely inappropriate, despite the fact that the military needs investment, but of the political question whether we will deny citizens and citizens the opportunity to sign a legislative referendum and then express their will. That's what we're talking about today. And it's a political question whether we're going to let this government tell me nothing, tell you nothing, the legislative referendum is unacceptable to us, we don't need the will of the people. On the other hand, we are talking today that the consultation referendum does not correspond to this coalition. You know, here we are in the field of some constitutional rights to ask citizens and citizens about a matter, of course, if the legislative referendum first gathers a sufficient number of signatures, for example, it is also a difficult procedure to gather enough signatures to call for a legislative referendum. And here's my question, given Mr Tonin's misdirection, and this is the swindling that has been recorded. Has he voted in the Government against the decision on the inadmissibility of the invitation to a legislative referendum? And if not, why does he speak publicly and do something else? Unfortunately, the Secretary of State is here today as a representative of politics, and I would like to ask you why we are so afraid in the trenches that the people are asking what they think. For no one says that with their good arguments that you can have and explain here today, you will not convince the people of your right. This is the purpose of democracy to face arguments and leave people with a choice. By not talking about the content itself today, we are talking about whether, on the basis of the Government's decision on the inadmissibility of the legislative referendum, we will be able to make a consultation referendum possible. And all these confrontations around butter, cannons and so forth, they have nothing to do with it today. The question is, Will this Government be afraid of human will, or will it even allow steps to be taken against the fact that we still have this constitutional stipulation that the authority of the people is in place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Here you go, Secretary of State Urosh Lampret.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u98	Chairman, thank you. Allow me to give a brief answer, because the question was directly addressed to me. The Government has not adopted a decision on the inadmissibility of the legislative referendum, as it is not in charge. The Government has proposed such a decision for adoption in the National Assembly, because it considers that it is an urgent measure of defence of a country which is not permitted under the Constitution of the referendum. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Member Iva Dimic has the floor and will be discussed by Mr Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Today I think we hear a lot of things in this hall of ideology, including quoting Pope Francis, but the facts may be slightly different. It has been said that Levica has always wanted to create some chaotic state and chaos in a country where citizens would like to be determined about the Slovenian Army or about the Slovenian health system. It's totally overturned. The state needs both. And I can say that the government in the budget for 2021 allocated 150 million more funds for Slovenian health care and also for Slovenian education, in 2022 as well. We are talking about about about 100m euros for the Slovenian Army. At present, no subsystem has been maintained, and the Slovenian Army has been undernourished for many years. I went to take a look, and I also have printed all the addresses since 2007 on how the Slovenian Army has been fed. How they point out that we simply get bad, negative grades. On 21 February 2018, one of the Slovenian media reported: "In the Slovenian Army, they are concerned about the poor rating of the battalion of the fighting group last week." Thus, they recalled the past negative assessments of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which pointed to the weakness of the military in the area of personnel, equipment and the provision of funds for the development of the Slovenian Army. 2007, February 12th: "The departures of soldiers from the Slovenian Army will continue." So, look, it's just one part of the headlines that shows that virtually no one has dealt with the Slovenian Army. When natural disasters occurred, however, we all expected the Slovenian Army to be included in the resolution in addition to the Civil Protection. And today it has been said that we are not threatened by war, we are threatened by earthquakes. I mean, yeah, who saved the day of the earthquake in Soot? And I'm sorry that the Slovenian Soot is exposed to this. Who was the first one there? Slovenian Army and, of course, Civil Protection, which belongs to the Ministry of Defence. I don't know why Levica really wants to establish this ideological note, or the military or health care. One more time, both together and something else. It was said we hated culture and I don't know what. I beg you very much, what words are here today in this House, when we should say that we will take care of each other as much as possible, we will also take care of each other in the future. It was said what could be built with this money. True, but we must also take care of a sufficient number of doctors. And once again, the Slovenian Army is also helping with the epidemic. When I was sent to be tested myself, thank God I didn't need to be admitted to the Infectious Clinic. Representative of the Slovenian Army. They're also said to be in the front lines of the health system. But we speak the same language? Do we understand or know what is happening in Slovenia? Who's the first person to accept people at the Infectious Clinic? He's a member of the Slovenian Army. These are the people we're talking about. It was said we don't need Nate, I don't know what else. Look, NATO is the cheapest insurance policy. The countries of the Allies share defence spending together, so the defence is significantly cheaper than if all capacities were to be developed on their own. And this is where I have to remember to tell you that my colleague and I are mags. In fact, when the President of the National Assembly was still in office, she supported Northern Macedonia in joining NATO because they also wanted to join NATO and the European Union in Northern Macedonia. And we were there at this event, a unique event in history. We were together with a representative, then president of the SD, in Macedonia, when she joined NATO. I think that Slovenia has an extremely important task in all this Balkan work. We understand that Slovenia provides international peace and stability in this Balkan work. That is what I understand, first in the Balkan region, so here we have the strongest military mission in Bosnia and Kosovo. In the Balkans, given our size, we are above average, and this proves our strategic commitment to ensuring the stability of the region. We are not just talking about micro, about Slovenia, we have to look at the region, we live in a particular region, which is, we have always said, a barrel of powder or a hot spring. And I really don't understand, maybe some of the people here today who have been discussing this, but I remember well the great migratory wave between 1991 and 1994 right from these regions. And what do we object to? We are opposed to being good and to continue to ensure stability and peace in the region. Anyone who doesn't see it that way can say that he doesn't understand the importance of the army. That is why I have a feeling today that we are talking here and that the Levica simply wants to abolish the Slovenian Army. That's why I can say because he wants to have some chaos, chaos at the border, chaos in the country, chaos in the region. However, matters have been set up differently and I do not agree to the military debate yes or no. We need it again, like everyone else: health, education, social. In the budget, these funds are provided for all subsystems, for all systems. The only thing I want is for the military to be so stable that young people can choose the profession of soldier. When the Slovenian Army is so stable and has things to do, young people will also decide on this profession of soldier. And I hope this happens in the coming years.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The text is by Franz Jurša and will be discussed by Franci Kepa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u102	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Once again a nice greeting to everyone in the hall! I am following a thorough debate in the National Assembly, in this Chamber, and I am concerned in some way that this debate is ideological. I don't like someone saying that to be a left or a right-wing extremist. We have decided that we need the Slovenian Army, it has grown out of the Territorial Defence of the former year 1991 and all of us who have been involved in these structures understand and know things perhaps a little bit more than those who have never been in these structures. Today, when someone in the hall says that within seven months we could build an Infection Clinic in Slovenia, my dears, it probably doesn't work, or those who understand that it doesn't work, we can deny it. Now I'd like to see that hero or the hero who says that to do it. That it is necessary to assist firefighters and civil protection and, of course, other protection and rescue structures, I agree and somehow in these years, we have also concerned in some way that this area has been adequately covered. For the Slovenian Army in general, we have always taken for the entire defence structure. I was there when we said yes, who are we going to be now? Yes, the Slovenian Army. And once that, I understand, it has to be over. To talk about who's in power and what he's doing, I have to say that some have even been a superpartner in the former coalition and have left the former coalition, the minority government, too. They left us and, of course, someone who was at the head of that government did what he did. Of course, he didn't judge well, and someone else did. It would be nice, though, if we were to allow the other to function in some way in these difficult times, but not to throw our pollen under our feet all the time. To say that time and space aren't right. When, in fact, the time and place are right to decide to actually equip the Slovenian Army to the extent that Slovenian boys will even want to go to this Slovenian army. About the consultative referendum and the legislative referendum, I need someone to explain it to me now. I think that the consultative referendum is some kind of demand, it is not binding, but it is legislative. Then why didn't the proposers propose to be a legislative referendum? I should probably talk more about social issues today, about nursing homes, nursing hospitals, long-term care, hospitals in general, reduction of waiting types, health care and so on. Yeah, that's the topic we're going to talk about, and I'm going to talk about it loud and clear myself. Of course, I am aware that security must also be ensured. My parable is next. When you lose your safety, you just realize how precious it is. And the Slovenian Army and the Slovenian Police and some other structures are the ones that provide us with this security. That is why we must take care of these structures in an appropriate manner. Yes, 780 million, my dear, we see a terrible amount. But that's the sum divided into six years, and there's something else that's crucial. If there's a new government coming, maybe she'll make a different choice. The budget for a given year shall determine the amount to be invested in the Slovenian Army. Of course, not only the government, those who will sit in this oval hall, will decide and have the opportunity to say whether in a certain year there will be or will not be as much funds as was foreseen in this law. You know, my memory is already relatively far away because my EMHO is also relatively high, and I must tell you that as a professional I was my time in the predecessor of the Slovenian Army. And how important it would be if, then, in 1991, we had good equipment, both personal and collective equipment, as well as, of course, weapons. But we didn't have it all back then. And you know that today the one who says that no one threatens us is missing something. When someone threatens us, then we have to act. And if we have nothing to do with it, we can't provide security for citizens, which is, as I think, crucial. Yes, I am against this research referendum being carried out, but I must tell you clearly and loudly that I will be a great advocate for those topics that I have mentioned earlier, these are social and health issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposer Luke Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like some replicas for the performance of my colleague Jurša. First, why the consultative, why not the legislative referendum. We have proposed that the Government should consult the people on this, on the investment of 780 million, because it is the Government's legal initiative and because it is the largest investment in this mandate, so we would think that the people are asking for an opinion. However, we have also predicted that if our initiative is overlooked and the law is passed without consulting the people, we do not rule out the possibility of a legislative referendum, which means that 40,000 signatures must be collected. But we don't rule out this option. That's the one. However, we would like to give in advance the opportunity to consult before that, that it would not be necessary to have a legislative one. Secondly, you're saying we need to talk about security. I agree. But I particularly agree with this part of your implementation, which warned you, rightly warned that there are different security to be taken care of. There is health security, there is social security, there is safe ageing, there is earthquake safety, there is security that will become increasingly important in the future, that is, security against climate change. It is therefore necessary to discuss which of these security is a priority to invest and what the population essentially wants. The government is privatising weapons, I have previously presented some numbers, and in the next five years it will be 780 million for the military, and 219. We are assessing as the proponents and proponents of this referendum that this is the wrong priority, that it should be the other way around, so we say that we should go to the referendum. And not least, when you say why don't you just let this government rule? Look, here's what I'm gonna say, two things. First, I would essentially like to become some slightly more dialogue society, perhaps following the example of Switzerland, where important things are decided at the referendum and where people are essentially able to direct the country through a referendum, but also because of this, long tradition, probably the most successful or one of the most successful societies in Europe. We have, although some have told us that another Switzerland, 30 years ago, will come into a completely different state, which has crystallized very clearly under this government, and this is that when someone in the government takes over, people have very little say in how the government is run and how the country is run. People practically have no say in this. Even the opposition in Parliament, although almost half of us are Members and Members of Parliament, we have very little impact on how the country is being run. And even though he enjoys only a quarter of his support, he can break through the media, the institutions, the jugs of justice and so on, no one can harm him. This is a source of conflict and conflict in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u105	Mr Proposer, return to the topic – the referendum, not the media and other stories.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u106	That's why, it's a cartoon, why we need a referendum and why we need to talk [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u107	Return to the subject of the day you requested.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u108	about a different type of democracy. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u109	We'll talk about the media another time.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u110	And please, chairman, don't jump into my word. You can warn me, after my performance, not jump into my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u111	Wait a minute. Be polite. The President shall be the only one who has the right to speak to the debater. And if you're polite, you'll wait for him to tell you what he thinks.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u112	Look, sir. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u113	You can't jump into my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u114	You can't jump into my word. And look, I'm not gonna let that happen. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u115	All I can tell you is get back to your agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u116	In a critical word about this government, you jump into my word and stop me from criticizing. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u117	Return to agenda item. We have a proposal for an advisory referendum, we do not have a refinance of the media, we do not have an editorial policy, but a consultative referendum on money for these military investments in the Slovenian Army. And that's the darkness. If you want another topic, you will put a second item on the agenda. Here you go. Stick to the darkness.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u118	As an opposition Member, I have the constitutional right to criticize this government. You gave me your word the moment I said something about this government that you don't like. And I'm not gonna let that happen because you have no business right to do that. However, I concluded my debate because I said what I was going to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I really suggest you stick to the agenda item without talking about everything from A to Z, because that's not the point. However, if you give a point of policy to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the last six months, you will talk about everything. And here is a strictly purposeful topic that you yourself have proposed. And hold on to it, please. Mr. Jursha, please, you have a replica. I'm afraid you're out of time. The next one is for the debate of Franci Kepa, and he will be given the word mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to the guests! Colleagues, colleagues! That we're not under threat at the moment, that's true, but that can change at the moment. We remember well in 1991 how we were attacked by our former colleagues, friends from JLA. Only the good organisation and patriotism of people under the leadership of the Defence Minister and the current Prime Minister of the Government are to be thanked for resisting the occupying power. Those who oppose the modernisation of the army are against the safety of soldiers, our soldiers, our neighbours, our sons, our fathers. Without modern equipment, they feel neglected. Each party or group of parties shall have the right to convene a referendum, either consultative or legislative, normally regular, by collecting signatures on the ground and certified in administrative units, 40,000 of them shall be required. The purchase of weapons, 780 million looks like a high investment, but it's not a one-year investment, it's in six years. The first two years after 100 million, the next four years after 145 million. Over the years, the last decade has been the acquisition and maintenance of the military on the side track and has been incurably underfunded. Each government was just taking money from the military, and little from the crisis, and from the excuses that the military did not necessarily need new equipment. It is high time for the military to give additional funds, normal operation, so that the soldiers can operate safely and perform current tasks. It's an epidemic, so it's spread out for six years, and it's right and it won't know each other. The one-time amount would be very high. The purchases will also include helicopters for delivery, which are also intended for civilian purposes, including transport aircraft, including other equipment. In order for money to be spent on health care, building a home for the elderly, there is no real explanation. Both are strictly necessary. We urgently need security, we urgently need health care and education. Health care is now under trial, this time, this moment, and this government has also put a lot of resources into health care this year, and it will certainly give, because it is absolutely necessary. The military has often helped with natural disasters, gloating [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Kepa. Time's up. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan, prepare yourself for Bostian Korazi. Hey, buddy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u122	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government, welcome! I am in favour of the Slovenian Army myself, so I have supported the Defence Act, just like our parliamentary group, so that soldiers and soldiers have better status. Unlike some of the debaters on the right, I do not believe that we live in heaven. It is not true that there is enough money for all the priorities we currently need. It's just a big budget hole and a worse situation than it was in the spring of this year. It is therefore right that we, as citizens and citizens, have the right to say what is a priority at this time, including as regards security. We urgently need a nursing hospital in Murska Sobota; we urgently need investment in a general hospital to train some departments. I urgently need a whole bunch of buildings at the Maribor Clinical Center, not just a new infectious clinic, but the center is old and needs a strong reconstruction. We need a new hospital in Celje, not to mention the Clinical Center in Ljubljana and the fact that Ljubljana does not have a secondary hospital. We really need more than a billion euros in investment. And unlike investments in the Slovenian Army, the state has not tried to come before us with an investment plan. Well, that's got a head start! This is the greatest form of security that we can offer to citizens and citizens, and it is our duty to do so. Therefore, do not say that citizens and citizens have no right to say what is their advantage. If you look at, say, Switzerland, which is sort of an example of a referendum. Every purchase of a tank, every plane, people decide. Sometimes they make a positive decision, sometimes they make a negative decision. Here, now that the money is really gone, because it is only a big budget hole and a worse situation than it was in the spring of this year because of the state's unwillingness, that the country is not prepared for the second wave, but that the opposition is not guilty because there are no levers, the task of the rulings is to prepare the country, and we only find that we urgently need to invest in Slovenian hospitals. That's why people have the right to decide at the referendum. That is why I call on you, as citizens and citizens, to enable us to do so and thus to ensure that the form of security we need most. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Boštjan Koražija has the word, and he will receive the word of Joseph Horvat. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u124	Mr President, thank you very much. I don't have much time, and I'm gonna be very short and squirming. I will just read to the gentlemen and ladies on the right hand side with NSI and SDS, a passage from the book that should be a world to you, but unfortunately you are not at the moment, of course I am talking about the Bible. But I will read a passage in which Jesus speaks directly of the Pharisee yeast. I think you know what pharisaic leaven is — hypocrisy. And I will read: “In the meantime, thousands of people gathered together to walk each other. Jesus first began to speak to his disciples. Beware of the Pharisee yeast, which is hypocrisy. There is nothing hidden that will not be revealed and hidden that will not be known. That's why everything you said about the darkness will be heard in the light. And what you have said in your rooms in your ear will be preached on the roofs." And Minister Tonin and this government are actually very two-faced. Look, first he's telling us in Levica, let's get things straight so we can call a legislative referendum, and he's making fun of this consultation. Then they quickly take this decision to the government, which regulates that there will be no referendum or referendum. And quite frankly, because we've had a constant problem with this government since the beginning, this duality, say something, do something else. You give us your hand all the time, then we try to cooperate or we try to help you with good suggestions, you reject them. It's just a typical duality. I must admit, you just came into some opus operand when you were still in the opposition when you were very aggressive. Mr. Chernigoy has outdone himself today, too, I must admit. I don't know if it was just a sea temper or something. I hope nothing else was just a sea temper. And in fact, look, this government is actually all the blame, this is again the next duality of this government, all the blame now for this situation that we have for the virus, the epidemic or covida-19, trying to turn to our people, who strictly held to the physical distances, wearing masks and all the other things, including this, I'm going to say, epidemic hours after the new, not the police. But look, you have in the government and with your representatives people who don't stick to it and then from others, from our people, or citizens and citizens, they demand that they stick to it. But in the end, I will conclude quickly and say, I know that you have in the SDS and in the NS as the most believing Christians here in the National Assembly, but I would only warn you that you do, because by your actions you prove to me that you are not. Indeed, giving up €780 million for weapons instead of for people in the biggest health, economic, social crisis can no longer be forgiven by God himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Well, we'll see at the end what God will do. Now he has the word Joseph Horvath, followed by Blaž Pavlin.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u126	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, other representatives of the Ministry's co-workers, Commissioner General Staff, colleague and colleague! I just heard excellent arguments for the consultation referendum, so I don't know if I would just support it, under, of course, additional conditions. In particular, I will talk about the referendum issue, which must by no means be two-faced. Yeah, I'm Catholic, my family's Catholic. You, my colleague, who spoke before me, I will show you a message from my cousin's nun who is just saving lives in the worst covid department. You know, colleagues and colleagues, today we should devote at least one minute to all those who save lives. But you started here with insults, with criminals in power. Or what? The lubricants are for you, you know who and so on. You've lost all credibility. Whatever you suggest will take me a long time to support. I'm sorry, I have to start doing this myself, but that's not exactly my style. Thanks to the Slovenian Army, thanks for saving people's lives, yes, with bare hands, including helicopters. Here I have already said, thank you once again for the 151st helicopter squadron, the 15th half of the military air force that saved last Friday, and from Prekmurje he has brought a lovely girl to me as well. Thank you, everyone. But you say, "No, we don't need this!" You say, "No, we don't need new troops." I don't know where the army sleeps. Underneath the sky? Under the tents? You say, "No!" You're saying. “No, the military should not solve natural disasters resulting from climate change.” You say, "No." Since the referendum question, ladies and gentlemen, let me read it, I don't know if the Slovenian public even knows it. This should read: Have you adopted the Proposal for a Law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army from 2021 to 2026, on the basis of which Slovenia will use EUR 780 million in the next five years, six years for the purchase of arms, military technology and other military investments? Look, let's be honest. Let's be honest, there's no extra 780 million. We've spoken many times before, but it's true that it's about 300 million more every six years. Because 2021 to 2026 is six years old, ladies and gentlemen. That's from third grade, because we know that. And now here a man would say, yes, okay, I will vote in favour that the National Assembly does not accept. Okay, then it means that investments in the Slovenian Army will be equal to EUR 0 in six years. 0 euros in six years. Look, there's also equipment for a Slovenian soldier, personal equipment. Yes, it is clear to everyone who can count to five or up to six, as you should know here up to six counts that you actually want to lock up, terminate, I will not say destroy, abolish the Slovenian Army. That's a fact. In a way from the political profile of the Left, okay, legitimate political agenda, okay, because we probably know that from several left parties. But if we are already asking the question of the citizens who are not in politics every day, as we are with our colleague Luke the Moon, then let us ask the correct referendum question. Seven months, and you haven't done an infection clinic yet. Thanks for the compliment, we're really effective, but we're not that effective. We didn't. Maybe once they're working with the 3D printer, we'll do it. Within seven months all the documentation and the financial structure are still under construction – we are not capable. Excuse me, citizens and citizens, we are not able to make infectious clinics in seven months from nothing until a useful permit is given. We will, but we will. We also have some of this in the coalition contract, which is for us, you know, pacta sunt servanda, right. And houses for the elders: ye have spoken so much of them. When was the last time we did it? I repeat, in 2008. Isn't it? Who was the leader of this department then? New Slovenia. From then on, no home for the elderly has been built by this country. Yes, it's true, I agree with my colleague Violeta, we have a lot of problems. We have them, yes, and politics is here to save them. He says kids can't go home because there's no Internet. True, but again, I'm sorry, we were unable to transport optics to every Slovenian home within seven months. But we're going to do this because digitization is very close to us, and we know that, because you know me, who isn't, it won't be digital, it won't be digital. I will never forget a pleasant conversation, there was only one with Prof. Ljubico Jelusič in 2012, after the ceremony in December she asked me in the lobby because we took over the government then and Nova Slovenija received a defence resort, please do not take the Slovenian Army. This lady is the first minister in Slovenia, postdoctrinally educated at the Royal Military Academy in Brussels and so on and so on. He has something under his thumb about the Slovenian Army. Swiss. I don't want Slovenia to be another Switzerland. I want Slovenia to be the first Slovenia. First and only. Yes, the Swiss citizens were a day ago, and indeed days ago, the referendum was supported by a government plan for a 6 billion-dollar purchase of new fighters to replace an old aircraft in the Swiss Air Force, and I'm not going to talk about the types now. 6 billion, Switzerland. Sweden. Who runs the government in Sweden? Who? Social Democrats, right? Read The Economist and you will see how much they invest in defense. There are so many speeches, not speeches, abuse of Nate, abuse. In what article of this law would you have a consultative referendum, does the word NATO say? Which one? In short, I'm closing slowly. Colleagues and colleagues, if we are discussing this, let us discuss this with arguments. Some of the people you introduced are real, and I accept them. But when the argument runs out, then you go under the belt. Excuse me, under the dog. And you're going to the level of insult. It doesn't surprise us anymore, but it's your vocabulary, not everyone, that I'm honest here. There can't be a dilemma in politics, or an army or a hospital or a nursing home. It must be and – and equipment for the army, for the Slovenian soldier. Security isn't just cannons, God forbid. What about cybersecurity, or are you against cybersecurity? You seem to be against it. I'm against this referendum. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, time is running out, so Blaž Pavlin won't get the word. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural. Here you go, Mr. Koražija, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u128	Mr President, thank you very much. I would just like to ask you to warn Mr Horvath, because he mentioned some words earlier, and I will not say anything now, because I do not want to repeat what I have not said. Please don't do this anymore, and she's deceiving it. If he has something to say to anyone else, let him tell him, not me, and then he looks at me. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u129	Koleg Korazi [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u130	I didn't say those words to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u131	Comrade Korazi, allow me to conduct the meeting as stated in the Rules of Procedure, not as anyone thinks it would be right for him. He said nothing wrong in this debate. And now we're going to this final part. Do you want a word first, Mr. Mesec, or shall I give the floor first to the representative of the Government? You'll take the floor first. Port Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u132	Yes, thank you very much. My friend Horvath, I'll give you a little answer first. I have to say, I'm always trying to be as corrective as possible. I admit the things that piss me off, like the latent racisms that we've heard in here today, and I've also reacted appropriately, because it really bothers me that we're in a situation where those who create problems, let's say they're sowing fear, then they're acting like saviors, let's say they're sending an army to the border. This is a fine example of how you do something with one hand and something else with the other hand. You create a problem with one hand to show the other how you save it. In addition, in your debates, I find it disturbing that, although you perform as much as I would say, a broken Christian man, you have too many times in statements of various machinations, such as what you put back on before, with lubricants. Kordish didn't say doctors were lubricators, but he said he had to have a law against anointing. Well, you know that, but you spent it anyway because it's pretty. Then you said we were talking about not saving the military in case of natural disasters. I didn't say that anywhere. We can go back and watch all the magnetograms. We are saying the opposite all the time that the military has to buy things that are also useful for civil use in Slovenia, which are useful for helping with natural disasters, and after all that it should not be on the border where your government sends it, but rather help to solve the manoeuvring in our health care and care for vulnerable groups. And finally, this is your question-making. Once again, according to the initial note of NSI, you have translated it from the question of €780 million into the issue of the abolition of the military. That's some thing I've been explaining all morning. Every time I showed that the military gets half a billion euros a year and no one takes that money from her. We're just talking about an extra 780 million. And if we're just getting into this level of debate that you're basically pulling us a little bit by the language, you're faking our statements, you're translating into some untruths, and you're acting on behalf of a great honest man, it's going to be hard to cultivate some democratic culture. However, we have proposed a referendum just so that a democratic culture can be cultivated in the country and ultimately some democratic maturity. This country is democratic by its constitution, it has a people in it, in this sense we are nothing different than Switzerland, but we are very different from Switzerland through our democratic culture. I must say that in politics for the last six years, I have noticed that relations are really very primitive. The argument of power is usually much more valid than the force of the argument. We don't listen enough. It's too much for someone to lay hands on. And what bothers me the most is that when someone comes to power, he thinks he can rule himself without asking or listening to the citizens. And I think it's a vital move that we need to change. Take seriously this constitutional principle that authority has a people, and at least consult the people about important things to begin with. And 780 million for this country is in no way a minor matter, so I insist on our initiative to decide on this at the consultation referendum and to take the will of the people into account after all. At the same time, I stress the importance of a fair debate, an reasoned debate, and not making statements from one and the other.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The word is given by the representative of the Government, Secretary of State Uroš Lampret. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u134	Thank you, Chairman. I'm gonna try to be as short as I've been today. The Government does not support the proposal for an advisory referendum. We estimate that the purpose of the referendum is contrary to national defence interests and also to the international obligations of the Republic of Slovenia. It is also contrary to the relevant strategic documents of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of defence and security. The referendum could have a negative impact on the construction of the necessary capacities of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which this organisation has been awaiting for a decade and a half. And without these capabilities, it cannot carry out appropriate statutory tasks. I could also intervene in credibility, and I have already used this word several times today, the Republic of Slovenia as members of the Alliance. Throughout the alliance, the Republic of Slovenia also ensures national security. In the event of an attack on Europe, this continent, which we are part of, would need the help of our allies and our allies. And the ambitions and common objectives of this defence are represented by full sovereignty by the Republic of Slovenia together with the others in both organisations. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Now I should get the word of a representative of the proposaler Luke Moon, and I can see he's gone. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure? I see there's still interest. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the candidate Luke Mesec and the representative of the Government, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case they will get the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. I see there's five reported. Each debater has 5 minutes. First of all, he gets the word of a Member of Parliament, Joseph Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u136	Thank you again very much, Mr Vice President. Your Honor, once again a very nice greeting! This government, or a closer view of the Ministry of Defence in the composition of this government, is in fact doing nothing but realising before, I stress that before in previous governments the adopted documents and strategy. The fulfilment of our own obligations is therefore merely the realization of commitments made and the result of previous decisions of the National Assembly and decisions of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Here, of course, I am referring to the 2003 referendum, when 90% of us decided to join the European Union and two-thirds for NATO membership. Why am I also referring to membership in the European Union, as Mr Lampret, Secretary of State, mentioned earlier? Look, we within the European Union have adopted a global strategy on the common foreign and security policy for the time of the High Representative of Federica Mogherini. About the common foreign and security policy. In a way, I can also understand that this agenda of the Left, the sharp rejection of any euro for the Slovenian Army, is not only a practical call for withdrawal from NATO, but also, in fact, from the European Union. But this may not even matter so much right now. We go to concrete arguments and I would like to remind, ladies and gentlemen, of the 2014 Valižan Commitment, we were the opposition at the time, and we welcomed this commitment, which meant this Valižan Commitment, the spending of 2% by 2024. Then a letter from the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 2018, we welcomed this letter, even though we were in opposition. Which means this letter, raising defence expenditure to 1.5% of GDP by the same year, 2024. Not to mention the national documents, the strategy of joining NATO, the 2002 decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, then various resolutions 2010, 2018 and so on. But look, without the Slovenian Army, we simply cannot imagine our own country. We can't imagine our own country. And yes, the Slovenian Army, if they don't have equipment, if they don't have weapons, then there's no army. But the weapon of the Slovenian Army will never be an aggressor weapon, it will never kill, but it will only serve security and exclusively security. We can have a thousand polyclinics, we can have five thousand homes for the elderly, we can have super schools, sports facilities and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are not safe, if we do not have the security guaranteed, then we do not benefit from it. And here's the first army to be called so that all of us can, in our own words, sleep peacefully. Of course, this is also about ensuring security, which today are slightly different from 30 years ago, 50 years ago. We weren't talking about cyber warfare at the time, we were talking about cyber threats. And today the state must also take care of so-called cybersecurity. It's a very broad concept. Who comes first to the scene of the accident when the flood occurs? Who comes to the crash site when an earthquake strikes? Who comes to the scene of the accident when there's some mass fires and so on? Who saves the lives of Slovenian citizens and citizens? The answer is also the Slovenian Army. And that's why I support it. This law, which I am sure we will also confirm, does not mean 780 new million, means just an additional 50 million per year from 2021 to 2026. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The word is Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u138	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Army, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Today we are wasting time again having an epidemic, that they have a lot of work in health, that the government, like us, should deal with more important, life-important topics, but of course here we are discussing some populist idea of how to give the Slovenian Army as little or poor as possible to the end as possible, what the present governments have done. And of course, it sounds good, maybe you're a representative of a proposaler who isn't even in the hall right now, he doesn't think it's worth listening to the debate until the end, it sounds good, yeah, let's give for health care, let's give for nursing homes, let's give for schools, let's give for kindergartens, not the Slovenian Army. Of course it sounds good. And then this stuff blows up really good: the sheet, the iron, I don't know what it's all about. But look, Slovenia, Slovenia, Slovenians, we decided to go to NATO, we decided on this collective security, and we also decided that we would have this military and also have the most modern. I can't imagine that they've left us at all, that with such small funds or such investment, we could still be under NATO's umbrella in the event of any threat that you think is gone in Levic and that there will never be, and so on. Even Slovenian soldiers, I have heard many times, were ashamed to go around the world with such equipment. Look, if we don't take care of the Slovenians themselves for our soldiers, then we really don't get it right. Take a look at each beekeeper’s every anthill, how they organize their lives and what soldiers in anthills or beekeepers mean. Let me think a little logically, but look in nature a little bit, you won't be wasting your stupidity, that the Slovenian Army doesn't belong to money, that we don't need the Slovenian Army and so on. Indeed, this proposal, which Levi put out on the road with everything that is currently going on in the world, is unheard of. And I believe that there is probably some other political party on the left, who has to support this situation by force now, in fact, probably shame, but they have no choice but to support such a proposal. I don't know why people should go to the referendum again. We are representatives of the people, we have all been elected by the people in Parliament. I don't know why we should go back to the referendum to ask people. Moreover, you are proposing only a consultative referendum, which would only cost a lot of money but would not be binding. I don't know, but you don't like to go collecting 40 grand or whatever. Look, all of us Members have been elected by the people, I say again. And I talk to the people, to those people who elected me, they say that the Slovenian Army must be and they love the Slovenian Army and they are happy that the Slovenian Army also protects us and that it also helps us in elementary disasters and so on. Of course, many on the left are going to run for some areas where you can choose, not in your own environment. And then you probably don't have the right contact with the electoral base, with your people, and you don't even know how they think. I don't even know, I don't know how to walk among people in Slovenia, in the field, if you're here in Parliament, wetting such nonsense that you're against the Slovenian Army, against your own defence of our own country of Slovenia. And let us have a little more respect for our Slovenian Army. I hope that such nonsense as you suggest will not come to pass, and I want the Slovenian Army to do all right and that this means in this long period of time and that our army will [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The word has Koleg Kordish, at this stage of the debate, which is the sharing of time, is no replica. [[…]] You didn't even sign up for the debate because you weren't in the hall. [[adverts from benches]] Yeah, that's what you're doing. I hope there's no controversy at the end. Here, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u140	Thank you for explaining this to the President that, at the time of the meeting, we cannot replicate the implementation by the Member and Members, because this very well explains why the coalition government's right side lies about smoking, unpunished.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u141	My friend, a procedural proposal. Because you have violated the rules of procedure, I am giving you a reminder. And one more thing, if I saw it right, you have a Heineken coalition up there, you're advertising the Heineken Brewery, it would be good if you didn't do it in the National Assembly. The next one has the word Mojca the Boxer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u142	Thank you very much. You're taller, a pair of bellums, said the old Latins, which means if you want peace, you have to get ready for war. The threat, the representative of the proposaler Luke Mesec said that Slovenia is not at risk at this time. Of course she's not threatened, thank God she's not. But if we wait for her to be threatened and then make a public procurement order for the purchase of weapons, of course, it will be too late. All of this reminds me of the times when Slovenia gained its independence and, when so often, the former authorities disarmed it. Our Territorial Defence was tried to disarm, so the Slovenian Army was then in great difficulty defending Slovenia against the Aggressor Army. Our Slovenian Army will never attack its own people, as JLA attacked its own people. Even then, it turned out that soldiers, ordinary soldiers, of course, did not want to participate and deserted mass, including those who were Slovenians, absolutely and also those who were not, saw the senselessness of doing and the crime of doing. Every year we hear about the failure to meet the standards of our army, so that we do not reach the desired indicators, then it reminds us of this, but not when we decide that we will still complete the gap in the Slovenian Army with the five-year plan, everything is wrong. This round 700 million is not for one year, but it is for a multi-annual period. But look, 700 million is only ten times more than was spent on home studies, none of which stand. Between 2013 and 2019, 70 million were used only for studies to build homes for the elderly. None of them stand. This money for the Slovenian Army is ten times higher. In fact, this comparison shows that not much is involved. History repeats itself. The same thing is happening today – resistance to the Slovenian Army. I'm sorry, but I feel like you're the one who's proposing this against the Slovenian Army, you don't like it. You're talking about not having to, but we do have, if not, problems at the border right now. You say there are only poor refugees who have come to Slovenia or who want to join the European Union for a better life. And that's the one that you say we don't have enough money for our own kids, for lunches, and you suggest that we take them home in person because they don't get any food at home. And you'd like migrants. Because they're migrants, not refugees. I understand if you'll allow me to be a little sarcastic that archers don't understand the concept of modern weapons. Otherwise, it should be said that it is here in this initiative to anarchy, to promote chaos, decadence and revolution, to revolutionise chaos again, even at the cost of human life. Just like you wanted to inflame chaos by throwing masks on the floor, with Blacklist meetings to blacken the government. Today you have defiled your own people. People are waiting, waiting for this to happen. But, thank God, our health system, our government responds effectively. And our government will also respond effectively to the need to defend its own country. To defend, and in a way that is effective and at the same time legal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The word is Lydia Ivanus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u144	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Good-bye, everybody! As we have heard many times before, how everything else should be built and where money should be invested, this is the money that is intended for the Slovenian Army. When we think about past accusations and everything that this government intends to do wrong, it is an interesting fact that the response of people to the work of this government is completely different. In a good way. Now I'm not going to tell you what's after your violation of this government, because we've heard and processed this too many times. But it's a comparison, thin or home, military or health care, nothing for people, nothing for infrastructure, it's not a good time for this money to need other resources and so on, real drama. And this is real politicization and rude discrediting of this government. Let's see the truth. In six years, the Slovenian army will receive 780 million each year. In only three years, health care will receive a billion 200 for comparison. So if we look at it from a financial point of view, given the indications, nothing is built and worked. And if we look now at the budget rebalancing of 2021 - 2022, when you say that nothing for other resources is dedicated or given. Enhanced investment funds are visible in the areas of transport infrastructure, rail connections and railway tunnel Karavanke, investment in culture, water separation and water treatment and flood management, construction of homes for the elderly, investment in health, UKC Ljubljana and SB Celje, development of broadband services and ICT by state authorities, promotion of entrepreneurship, research activity, biotechnological hub, sports infrastructure and investment in primary schools, spatial problems of prisons, and investment transfers to municipalities close to EUR 47 million in 2021. In the programming structure of the State budget, compared to the adopted budget for 2021, the largest increase in health care policy is €257.4 million, transport policy and transport infrastructure by €254.7 million, environmental and environmental infrastructure protection by €251.3 million, and more than a third increase in science and information society policy and enterprise and competitiveness policy in 2021. So you're wasting your lies so the rest of the departments can't be helped. So it is not exactly as you speak and dramatize and deceive the Slovenian people by how unnecessary a financial injection is for the military, for their employees, that is, our people who are in this service to protect us, and we have been giving them less than what was needed for decades after the NATO Treaty under the Defence Act. Public security, border protection, protection of people, regular provision of all necessary resources for the Slovenian Army – the Ombudsman also points out in his 2019 report, and I have not heard anyone in this report that I would not agree with his recommendations and report. The Slovenian military needs financial resources to carry out its tasks in accordance with, I repeat, the Defence Act and the Constitution as set out in Article 124. I will not support the proposal for a consultation referendum, because Slovenians want to be safe, we need the Slovenian Army not only for security purposes, we need them to help people personally in the harm caused by natural disasters [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Time's up. The last person who gets the word is Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Vice President. What we have heard today in these debates is interesting, but also different opinions on the responsibility to voter citizens. But without perseverance there is nothing and to ensure our safety it is necessary to persevere. That's how it's gonna be this time. And yes, Slovenia has also committed itself as a member of the European Union to contribute to better defence capacity in Europe, which means that it is necessary to move from words to a successful implementation of the provision of human and financial resources. Otherwise, people, we will remain far behind the European armies, we are already participating in joint military exercises with some of the European Union's armies, and this will not go forward and cannot, in fact, be saved, as has already been said. However, the success and future of the European Union in the field of defence depends on the political will of the Member States as well as ours, and this has been reported to us several times by the members of the European Union as well as by NATO. These purchases are about weapons and equipment as well as the infrastructure of our Slovenian Army, because NATO and the European Union will never protect us, we have to take care of ourselves if it happens. From the SD's point of view, it was also heard that, of course, they were for a consultative referendum and that they would be against investment in the Slovenian Army. Why? Because this moment finds even more important things. This sieve, who has it to do this smart sieve, what we need a little bit less and then fine, but every government has a program and in this programme of this government and this coalition is to provide a proportionate share of the funds for all the resources where they are most needed. Of course, this includes our defenses unit, which ensures our safety. Then, if Levi says that we're throwing money away for arms purchases, making profits to the war industry and so on. This is understandable, of course, because Lefta is somehow taking her policy and her program without an army. It wouldn't be like that, but at a time when the epidemic is also being declared, when the spread of the disease, when things get worse every day. And now, if so, then we would choose a legislative referendum so that we don't waste time and with these some referendums and votes, we're putting people back in even greater danger of infection. In the opinion of the applicants, I will say that this is not a policy escape from responsibility. I must say that here there are very different views and some comparisons with Austria and Switzerland are not the most prudent, most relevant. Those countries that have decided to have their own army, their own recruits, spend otherwise money on defense, we do not. But to compare maybe just that, our neighbour Austria has 2.2 billion guaranteed, 1.3 billion spent on their soldiers, the soldiers have 35,000, about 30,000 spares, it's almost 70,000 in their population, which is 9 million, if I'm right. If I may touch these other neighbors a little bit more now, what's on the agenda? Because if we were to continue to be assigned to the Slovenian Army since 2010, then there would be no need to adopt any investment laws at all now, but the military could be adequately equipped. Now that you're behind as much as we are, there's no other way. Neighbour Croatia spends 1.68% of GDP on defence investment, Hungary 1.21%, Poland for 2019 2.0%, Slovenia, we said 1.04% and is 25th among all NATO members. I think that this data is accurate enough, good enough to show us that it can't go on like this, and our Slovenian soldier can't drive in a 15-year-old armored car. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal for a consultative referendum to be held when the draft law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army is adopted in 2021 to 2026, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. Agenda item — Defence of the act on the determination of a parliamentary investigation to determine the actual situation and possible political responsibilities of holders of public functions in the implementation of measures related to the Commodity 19 epidemic and the mitigation of its consequences for the sum of the reckless use of public funds and the violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms for the period from 13. MARCH 2020 BEFORE DEFINITION OF THE PROVISIONAL PARAMENTAL INVESTIGATION AND FOR MOBITION OF THE APPLICABLE LEGISLATION ESTABLISHING THE COUNTRY IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE Epidemic DISEASE On the basis of Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a group of 39 Members and Members, signed by Branet Golubović, submitted a request for the introduction of a parliamentary inquiry to the National Assembly. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Robert Pavšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u148	Let me start with a quote from today's Health Committee, Tina Bregant, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health. I quote: "This situation was waiting for us relatively unprepared." Data from the National Institute of Public Health, October 27: 25 000 603 confirmed cases, a thousand 499 confirmed cases yesterday, 16 thousand 348 active cases. It's a reality. And this reality requires certain conclusions. That's a commission, too. The establishment of this commission is due to two of the most unseemly, if I may say so, political actions in the history of democratic Slovenia. First of all, because of the destructive, corrupt, non-repressive and distorted conduct of this government by citing the fight against the epidemic. Secondly, due to the request for the establishment of an investigative commission proposed by the Government itself, but, if we are truthful, it was proposed by the coalition, but there is no significant difference, which will investigate the Government, i.e. only itself. And the expected one found nothing wrong. But once again, whoever critically monitors the work and functioning of this government, I think of the entire coalition, has a clear set of facts. Firstly, the government and the coalition have fully covered the area of control of the epidemic. Secondly, the government and the coalition glimmer on the sidelines, i.e. in the bilateral areas of manipulation of the truth and decommissioning of the democracy of this country, confusion of measures, disproportionateity, lack of reasoning, explanation, communication. Thirdly, she is brilliant in the field of protection and rescue of economic activities, including the ministers concerned, and for the others she has no concern if they survive. Fourthly, it is brilliant in the field of clientelism by allowing fabulous profits on behalf of the fight against the virus, of course, from public funds. Five, he's rocking in a field of personnel, where he sets up his own in a wild stampede and quiets down those who think differently from them. And sixthly, he is brilliant at finding responsibility elsewhere than himself, in the media reporting harmfully, in people, all in despair that a critical mind would not grasp the truth. This one's on the palm of your hand. This government and this coalition are directly and this moment is more dangerous than the virus. Therefore, I suggest that you withdraw immediately to the experts and leave the healthcare system to resolve what is yet to be resolved. We trust people, we trust experts, we trust the public health system, we don't trust you. This government cannot recognize or even assume any already proven political responsibility. By misleading and knowingly citing false data, it justified a whole range of measures and thus damaged not only public finances but also caused significant economic damage by creating uncertainty and disproportionate interference with constitutional rights. This government is not intrudable, rather the other way around. With the support of coalition parties, this government has adopted a series of financial measures which are at first glance attractive but not feasible in practice. It is therefore necessary to examine in detail all the public financial effects and to determine whether these measures have been considered and justified and to prepare any amendments to the legislation that will make it more effective. Therefore, the Commission of Inquiry will identify objectively and subjectively the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the implementation of the measures related to the epidemic and the mitigation of its consequences due to the suspicion of reckless use of public funds and the violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Let me mention only the most receptive: mortality in the homes of older citizens, exchange at the top of Sursa, Fursa, serial at the NPU, the Police, appointment of different professional groups that can be identified by conflict of interest, groups that can help, have never met and so on. The Commission of Inquiry will look at the facts and prove once again the political responsibility that this government, despite what has already been proven, is in no way found and even less taken over. Political responsibility is clear, but this government confuses it with intervention situations and obvious evading. Therefore, the suspicions and irregularities already proven are more than enough to establish a thorough investigation to determine the extent of these different responsibilities.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The suspicions need to be confirmed before anyone gets caught up in any customerism. This is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Here you are, of course, procedurally, Nick Prebil.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u150	I mean, Mr Vice-President, I really want you, who always have so much to say to everyone else, to respect the rules of procedure and to conduct the meeting properly and not to comment or comment in the opinion of the proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Just to correct you, I did not comment on anything in the applicant's position, but I did warn you that we are now talking about an act where you will find confirmation of suspicions, but not about a prior judgment on clientism, as was said in the introduction. Besides, Surs and Furs aren't the subject of this act. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, followed by Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u152	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, guests! We all know that this year is marked by the covida-19 epidemic, and the way we work and the things we deal with in the National Assembly are somehow subordinated to this. This is also the result of a parliamentary inquiry which we do not object to in setting up in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre. Many government measures, decrees and laws adopted over the last six months have marked our lives, social events and economic activity. Initiatives have been set up to assess the constitutionality of certain provisions, regulations and are still in line. We're in the middle of the second wave of the epidemic, and we're waiting for us, logically following, to step up the action. Certain rights and freedoms have so far been affected by certain laws and regulations, but with the aim of protecting another right or freedom. Yes, we are talking about the general constitutional principle of proportionality, as one of the most important principles in these times, which comes out in particular. The right to health care has been mentioned many times in many debates in this Parliament and in the media. It is the State that must take such measures as are aimed at preventing, treating and controlling epidemic diseases. The country must also provide an accessible and capable health system. Health care must be sustainable and able to provide health services to citizens. All of this must be provided to us, citizens and citizens, at the time of dealing with the contagious covid-19 disease. The most controversial issues among the population and the parliamentarians have been triggered by the Decree on the Temporary General Prohibition of the Movement and Collection of People in Public Places, Areas and Cities in the Republic of Slovenia and the prohibition of movement outside the municipalities. In this regard, the central question was whether the prohibition of the movement of persons outside the territory of the municipality of permanent or temporary residence was consistent with the Constitution and ensured the right to freedom of movement. The Constitutional Court ruled that by imposing restrictions on the movement to the municipality of residence, a constitutionally permissible objective was pursued, namely to infect and control the spread of communicable diseases, thereby protecting the health and life of the people at risk. If I continue, the Constitutional Court has stressed that efforts to achieve this objective are also a constitutional duty of the State. A slow or insufficient response could seriously endanger people's health and life and, as such, would be inconsistent with the country's positive obligations to protect the right to life, the right to physical and mental integrity and the right to health care. In the case of communicable diseases, however, this obligation is particularly stressed by the State. It is also not negligible that the Court has also pointed out the duty of each individual to protect the health of other people, particularly vulnerable groups. Despite that case or decision, our intention is not to take the decision of the Constitutional Court. It is important to know that the weighing of values and the interference with fundamental human rights and freedoms is not yet over. A number of government decisions and intervention laws will likely be adopted to mitigate the effects of covid-19. In the coming months, we can expect another decision from the Constitutional Court, which will co-form our reality with its contents. We therefore, of course, agree that the relevant parliamentary inquiry will also establish the appropriateness of the legislation in force, which has been adopted with a view to effective action in the fight against the epidemic. However, this does not mean that the National Assembly, as legislator or commission of inquiry, will decide whether individual measures are unconstitutional, disproportionate and so on. This shall be decided by the Judicial Branch of the Authority under which the Constitutional Court is its highest body for the protection of the constitutionality and legality and human rights and fundamental freedoms. In determining the appropriateness of the legislation in force, it is also important to note the time dimension. Following the expiry of the period in which the effectiveness of certain measures is assessed, there is also the possibility that measures will have the opposite effect from what is expected. However, it takes time to implement each measure. Many of us hoped that a similar or worse scenario than it was in March would be no more. Unfortunately, he repeated himself in even sharper form. This also depends on the implementation of a number of measures taken months ago. However, the reasons for the success or failure of a measure are both on the part of the enforcement body and of the beneficiaries to whom the measure was intended. In explanation of the request for a parliamentary inquiry in the case referred to the Law on the provision of additional liquidity to the economy to mitigate the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic. The Act is cited as an example of the failure to implement one of the measures and as an indicator of the high promises made by government representatives. Such an assessment was made in mid-June when the loans under the guarantee scheme had not yet been received by any economic company. In the middle of July, the picture was a little different. We were also able to learn from the media that, after several complications with the implementing regulation, the guarantee scheme had in practice taken place in mid-July and was used for about 30 million euros. In such measures, which we are still witnessing, it must be pointed out that, in addition to the transparent and legitimate functioning of the State, it is also important to implement certain measures in a timely manner. In doing so, of course, we expect all state institutions to act in line with this objective, including in providing the necessary information in a timely manner, which was crucial for the implementation of certain measures. Of course, we must not allow illegal access to protected data to unauthorized persons under the pretext of timeliness and urgency. We therefore clearly support the purpose of the parliamentary investigation to determine the role played by the various government advisory groups that have designed measures to prevent or mitigate the negative effects and consequences of the epidemic. In doing so, we do not dispute the cooperation of the widest possible range of experts, different knowledge and experience, not least of all different world-level beliefs. It is important to establish the legal status of each advisory group, the scope of its powers and the type of responsibility of its members. In view of the fact that I have highlighted only a few fundamental points, the question arises whether, at the moment when the measures are still in line with each other and when the Constitutional Court has not yet decided on a number of initiatives to assess constitutionality and legality, it is even possible to expect the optimum results of the parliamentary inquiry in question, which will cover exactly all the aspects mentioned for the purpose for which it will actually be determined. The same is true in order to achieve the objective of identifying possible unprofessional work and abandoning the obligation of public function holders associated with the development of measures that could lead to inadequate use of public funds. In determining the latter, in some cases it is likely to be necessary to wait for possible audits of the Court of Auditors. As mentioned above, we do not object to a parliamentary investigation in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. However, we expect the Commission of Inquiry to carry out its work professionally and irreparably. Whether this is true or not, we will certainly be able to judge soon. Each of us is obliged to make its own contribution to the fight against the epidemic. There's no other way. Let this Commission of Inquiry be in the interest of all citizens and citizens, not of coalition- opposition relations and relations, as is currently reflected in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u154	Dear colleagues, colleagues, president! In Levi, we support the Act on the appointment of a parliamentary inquiry to determine the actual situation and the possible political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the implementation of measures related to the covid-19 epidemic due to the suspicion of reckless use of public funds and the violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms. We have before us an act setting up a parliamentary investigation to verify what has happened since the government of Ivan Janez Janša to date in the field of covid-19 epidemic control. Before that, we received a quasi parliamentary inquiry led by government parties. How did the purchase of emergency protective equipment take place in the spring months on which a special investigation group was established, whose members were later awarded seats in the supervisory councils? The loss of tens of millions by purchasing protective equipment through intermediaries was not an unfortunate bad decision or a result of difficult circumstances. In our view, it was a conscious decision by the Government of the current President, Janez Janša, to reach out to commissions for her friends and to refuse procurement with an interstate agreement with China as one of the possibilities for the direct supply of medical and protective equipment, as practiced by the countries in the neighbourhood. Thus, some 10 million euros have disappeared from the budget. We don't even have the exact numbers. Apparently, every time John John Janša is in power, commissions for the chosen ones fly to heaven. Arms trade in the '90s, patriots, now masks, fans and constitutionally and legally controversial restrictions on human rights and freedoms. even a minor problem, compared with the deliberate rejection of direct purchases in favour of commissions, exposing the population to unnecessary additional risks of covidu-19. [[Incomprehensible]] The masks were delayed, some masks were even completely useless, and the certificates were forged. Caregivers in nursing homes have been ignored because of government negligence and neglect of the profession, led by the community of welfare institutions, this profession has been ignored, found at the heart of the epidemic. Nurses and other health workers, too. And shop workers, kindergarten teachers, teachers and teachers in schools, parents of these children, factory workers, UKC staff and other health institutions, not to mention further. And now we are facing a second wave of epidemics and the consequences of the wrongdoing and the following are the state's unwillingness to high numbers of infected and hospitalized, unfortunately, even the dead. And it is precisely because of these cruel facts that we must examine the responsibility of who is responsible for such an argument, proven by the arguments already, incorrect action, at least in the part of the debates that have taken place with us and what the media have shown us. Let us finally tell him what is going on in this country, based on concrete facts, in a well-known place and at a well-known time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In early May, New Slovenia, together with coalition partners, submitted a parliamentary inquiry into the state, conduct, stock, procurement and acquisition of protective and critical medical equipment to effectively combat the covid-19 epidemic for the period from 1 February to the determination of the parliamentary investigation. It exposes the purpose and scope of the parliamentary investigation to the same subject as proposed by opposition parties this time. In Novi Slovenija, we want any suspicion of non-economic procurement to be verified and the facts found. In order for the media and the bar not to operate on unverified allegations and accusations, we also waited for the opposition to prepare a request for a commission of inquiry in the spring. In the absence of you, we have tabled a proposal for an investigative commission together with the other parties to the coalition. That is why today, once again, we have before us a proposal from the opposition. Our position, the position of New Slovenia, still holds that we want this to be investigated and the facts found. In order to determine, in the investigation itself, the possible political responsibility of the holders of public functions for the state, economy and timeliness of purchases and orders of personal protection and critical medical equipment, as well as for measures taken or unduly abandoned during the time before the outbreak was declared. It is only right that matters concerning the acquisition of protective equipment be clarified. It is right for these debates to move from media and street to the National Assembly to reach the bottom to find political responsibility. At the same time, in New Slovenia, we also call on other institutions, police, NPUs, the Court of Auditors to get to the bottom as soon as possible, in order to give the Slovenian public a sense of what was going on at a time when the market for defence assets was not governed by normal market conditions, but by the Mafia situation. I would like to stress, as well as as the New Slovenia Group, we support the Commission of Inquiry. We advocate full transparency, transparency. Everything has to be investigated to cast doubt. We want to build trust and break with the practice of another system when there were first-class ones that should not have been investigated. The practice we have unfortunately witnessed in democratic Slovenia, which has caused some citizens to lose confidence in law enforcement and judiciary. We want this trust to be restored. We want citizens to trust law enforcement, the judiciary and the government. It is therefore appropriate to refer the whole matter to the Commission of Inquiry and to all the competent national authorities to investigate the legality and economy of the transactions with the media, street and bar reporting. And to search anyone who has anything to do with procurement and measures before and during the epidemic, both left and right, it doesn't matter at all. We're all in charge of the state and citizens. So the goal of New Slovenia is to reach the same goal within the commission of inquiry on the acquisition of protective equipment, and that is the truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u158	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of the opposition parliamentary investigation is to clarify and clarify all facts and circumstances and to identify the actual situation and possible political responsibilities of the holders of public functions in the implementation of measures related to the covid-19 epidemic and to mitigate its consequences due to the suspicion of inadequate use of public funds and the unjustified restriction of rights and freedoms for the period from 13 March 2020 to the determination of the parliamentary investigation in question. It is necessary to determine how the procedures for the implementation of measures to prevent or mitigate the negative consequences and consequences of the epidemic have been conducted and implemented. As Bernard Crick said, governments must rule. But powerful governments need strong opposition. And the task of the opposition is to re-set the coalition with a mirror, to point out irregularities and to present a contradiction to the ruling authority. In the SAB Group, we believe that it is necessary to investigate if one of the members of any government misused the epidemic for so-called war profit and in this case call it to account. I have also repeatedly pointed out that the coalition has abused the epidemic at the expense of which certain individuals have unsupervisedly spent public funds. And as I have already said in the past, it is necessary to save in times of crisis rather than to spend taxpayers' money. Therefore, an investigative commission is needed to explore all aspects of the purchase of protective equipment by the current Government. In the SAB Group, we are in favour of holding offenders accountable in the event of violations identified. At the time of the adoption of the first anti-kron of mega-law in the SAB, we proposed, as a first step, special parliamentary supervision, which would be on guard over the use and allocation of public money. In the second anti-Korona marriage package, we went a step further and proposed the establishment of a specific budget fund, with which at any moment we would be able to tell exactly how much money we have spent on crisis resolution. This would test the use of public money, since it is too late to ring the bells along the bay. We will not get the money we have saved back; now we can only determine whether the funds have been spent transparently and economically. Things need to go to the bottom and let individuals answer for their actions if violations are detected. For the money of taxpayers must be dealt with transparently, effectively, carefully and in the spirit of a good master at all times. Alenka Bratušek will participate in the opposition's parliamentary investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! The opposition parties proposed the establishment of a parliamentary investigative commission with similar content after the investigation commission had already been set up on a proposal from coalition parties. So you want to identify the actual situation and possible political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the implementation of measures related to the covid-19 epidemic and by mitigating their consequences due to the suspicion of reckless use of public funds and the violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms for the period from 13 March 2020 to the determination of the parliamentary inquiry in question. You have stated in your request that you wish to identify the actual situation in relation to the preparation and implementation of measures to prevent or mitigate the negative effects and consequences of contagious covid disease during the period from 13 March 2020. Colleague Bandelli said that you want to investigate all governments, if that were true, then you would not take the border date March 13 – this shows exactly which government you want to investigate – although the previous coalition declared the epidemic March 12th. By that time, she had had some meetings, decided what she would do, and how she would do what she would do. You probably didn't just declare the outbreak out of thin air. We're assuming there was a condition that dictated that. So we know that it was, and therefore our investigative commission also covers a period before that time. This is also the 7th point of your request, where you say that it should be determined whether you have done any incorrect, unprofessional and unconscionable work, as well as the possible abandonment of the duty of public function holders associated with the design of measures, has led to ineffective and unsuccessful use of public funds. Once again, we can talk about this before 13. 3. You will certainly find the suspension of the duty of public function holders because the warehouses were empty. Well, someone didn't do their job, which should have been done. In point 8, you ask yourself, or you want to know, whether or not excessive acts have been taken that interfere with human rights and fundamental freedoms. In one part, the Constitutional Court has already found that no, and otherwise this cannot be the work of an investigative commission. For whether it was an intervention in human rights and fundamental freedoms, only the Constitutional Court can determine. Moreover, we know that, compared to other countries, the measures have been even nicer to us than elsewhere, and there are no such estimates as to be contrary to the Constitution. The purpose of the parliamentary inquiry is also to determine the role of the various government advisory groups. You are wondering whether the members of the expert groups have had the relevant licences, signed declarations for access to strictly protected data, or whether they have conducted training in the field of handling and protection of classified data and so on. If the problem were approached in time, when the time was right, before 13. 3, we certainly wouldn't even be asking ourselves that question, and all these people would have had it, and so was 13. 3. When it was necessary to start purchasing equipment, it was really difficult to train people and I do not know what to do with them, when it was in a rather chaotic situation that it was necessary to get a whole bunch of things. At that time, a lot of work was done quickly and in a chaotic situation precisely because the previous structure did not make timely purchases and took timely measures. Therefore, the Commission of Inquiry would, of course, find the suspension of the duty of public function holders, but since you will only investigate from 13. 3. Of course you won't be able to figure this out. To say that you want to investigate everything that was wrong in business is therefore put to great question. Whether you make sense to the two committees, we'll see. I'll be on the committee I run to make sure we get to the bottom of things. We have found out if something went wrong, and if any suspicions were confirmed, we have people who would be responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Bandelli, would you like a word for a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u162	Thank you, Madam President. I must tell you to warn colleague Alenko Jeraj that Marko Bandelli did not say in his position that we would investigate all governments earlier, but I quote, "to investigate if any of the members of any government have abused." That's a big difference, so please, if you'll just warn her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u163	Yes, thank you. This was not a procedural proposal concerning the procedure, but a substantive comment on the position of the SDS Group. Let us hold on to this in the future in order to express ourselves during the debate. Thank you. We're moving on with our positions. We've got two more. Mr Robert Pavšič will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u164	In spring, there was no citizen who believed that there would be no other wave of the epidemic. Nevertheless, the government decided to fall asleep on the laurels of airplane flights. While most foreign aircraft flew across our country, the virus was not interested. We were the best in the world. We were the only ones who managed to fix the ratings. Whoever's against us is actually a destroyer of the epidemic. These were your main messages in this unique victory. Of course, today people see that none of this is true. We all see that government action is devastating. That the measures were too late, sporadic, some even missed. Yet, they were respected and overcome in the first wave. Not government, people, along with a very self-sacrificing public health system. We all see that the government has completely forgotten that there is a second wave of infection coming in autumn and with it. We all see that the government continues to act succinctly, out of despair, and is trying to solve what remains to be resolved. So what were you doing this summer when the virus spread stopped? At that time, the responsible, i.e. the government, should draw up different plans, coordinate with hospitals, nursing homes and other institutions and services, and have prepared actions that depend on the scenario. As the number of infections increased in autumn, these prepared plans should only be implemented. That wasn't it. Someone's been hibernating over the summer. Only in early October, when she was surprised by the record growth of confirmed infections, did the government start with crisis meetings and start to think about measures that hospitals may become hospital co-vids, where patients can still receive co-vids and provide enough beds for their care. How to treat or how not to treat or covid patients. Just putting an end to the unnecessary planned interventions will have disastrous consequences, including tragic ones. The measures that the government is now taking overnight are poorly explained, without analysis, without the right arguments, by which people would understand why it is even worth sticking to. But they still take them into account. However, it is quite clear that in this rescue attempt the highest price will be paid in the first place by citizens and in the second type of health system. The bills will have to be placed on the table once. Nevertheless, this Commission of Inquiry is not only intended to determine political responsibility for the situation today, even though this is its main objective. Political responsibility is on the palm of your hand, but it has to be materialized. But that's what we'll do when the commission finishes its work when the virus is so defeated. Until then, however, this Commission of Inquiry must also look for all the possibilities and tools that, for the first time, such situations will never happen again, and for the second time, through the work of the Commission, we will find solutions for recovery that the government is obviously unable to prepare on its own. The government must ensure that the state does not stop, which has the unfathomable economic and social consequences. It's her responsibility. No misdirection helps. The search for on-call culprits in unruly citizens and the media is just a waste of sand in the eyes. If there has been sufficient time for all the bilateral steps, completely unrelated to the epidemic, time should certainly also be sufficient to argue, justify, interpret, listen to the profession, respect for citizens, take effective action against the epidemic and, ultimately, take their own account of these measures. You cannot deny this responsibility, at least not credible, but as we have already heard, in your manner. As a rule, such an obvious lack or incompetence of the government is a gift for the opposition, but this time I can categorically say no, it is a millstone for everyone, for the state and its citizens and citizens. But it's not all too late, not yet. The circumstances are extremely serious and dangerous if we do not act. We are therefore prepared to pay such a price of government or coalition inactivity in a key, most pressing area, i.e. the control of the epidemic. Here too will be the response of the List of Marjana Sharca clear: No. And when you, dear colleagues of the coalition, are talking about how unnecessary this investigation is, let me give you Article 1 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. “Parliamentary investigations in matters of public interest shall be carried out to identify and assess the actual situation which may be the basis for the decision of the National Assembly on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, to amend legislation in a particular field and for other decisions of the National Assembly under its constitutional jurisdiction.” End of story. We will therefore help the government with the work of this commission of inquiry, no matter what mistakes it will make, and the next time it will react differently. We will try to find ways to strengthen public health, which today is the savior, as far as it can be. Because public health care was largely underdeveloped, except in the direction of desire for its privatisation, which is the wrong direction. We will help you find ways to provide sufficient beds for cod patients at the same time, I stress, while the remaining health programs are in operation. We will ask ourselves whether the main concern of this government was indeed human and health, as the last call to the people provided by the Prime Minister, or whether it was through measures to control people and to transform society. We will ask and assess what measures are necessary and proportionate when the number of infections increases and how they are properly justified and explained to people. But as for today's and current measures, we take them into account because we are responsible and we really care about people. I'm afraid you've proved quite the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u165	Thank you very much. And as a last resort, he'll be a magician. Bojana Muršič presented the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The third government of Janez Janša was created in unusual circumstances, as the ministerial team took an oath only the day after the previous government declared the epidemic. The political and other circumstances that have led us to this will not be sold out today. However, each decision has more than clear consequences. And the consequences of the work and the work of the current government are clear today, more than 7 months and more than a million euros in deficits in the budget register. The epidemic is out of control and every day we face new and new restrictions, which the President of the Government generally reports on Twitter. The beginning of the fight against the virus was certainly marked by the stain of controversial purchases of protective and medical equipment, from which the ministers were just competing, who would take pictures before a single disputed shipment. And when we announced in the opposition that we would request an investigative commission on disputed purchases, the coalition hastened us with its own initiative to investigate itself now. As we have said at that time, the manoeuvre of the coalition, which you are going to overwhelm the opposition by filing a request for a commission of inquiry itself, I do not see what a coalition is most likely to represent, as a huge fraud, how to overwhelm the opposition, but as an act of ignorance, of deception, of buying time, which I believe, will sooner or later show what was actually happening in more than 10 million purchases of protective equipment. But these ignorances and inexplicable and unwise works have not only been involved in the acquisition of protective and medical equipment, this ignorance is the way this government has been working since the very beginning. Since the beginning of the monitoring of the so-called anti-Korona laws, the Social Democrats and the rest of the democratic opposition have made constructive, and now, as we look back, we have also made useful proposals and amendments, but unfortunately failed and without listening. In such a short time, we will not even list all the possible side effects of this government. Although in the hundreds of days alone, the Social Democrats listed them as 10 plus 100. All attacks on culturers, NGOs, independent institutions and justice, and others that the government does not like, no one is counting anymore because there are simply too many. But it is not just because the government does not want to hear constructive proposals. It is also about going as a bulldozer forward in cases that have absolutely nothing to do with controlling the epidemic. And here, unfortunately, Slovenia is losing. That is why today we are recording record numbers on the growth of the virus and we are witnessing again new measures and also the closure of society. That is why the investigation that is ahead of us is vital to finding out and to the public who and what has been done this month during the fight against the epidemic. To find out: why policy does not take account of the epidemiological profession in the fight against coronavirus; why the health system has not been properly prepared on the second wave; why money has been used so far to combat the epidemic and mitigate the consequences, and whether it could not be used more targeted and more prudently; why the guarantee and liquidity scheme for economic aid is not working; how and why the proposals of the social partners that we have witnessed the breakdown of social dialogue have not been properly taken into account; to whom it has been helped and why it is not and why it is not; why the scenario of individual stages of the fight against the virus is not coordinated and adopted simultaneously and overnight; and, last but not least, why the government of Janez Janš has failed the fight against the coronary disease and the consequences of the epidemic. All of these are billions, thousands of millions of difficult and unpleasant questions that the public must answer. Currently, as we all know, as a society, we are in extremely difficult, difficult times, because the victory over the virus marked by military aircraft was very Pirova. It is therefore important that we be aware, even when it comes to parliamentary supervision, of which mistakes should not be repeated in the future, that the ruling policy will be more perceptive to its own leadership, that ministers and senior officials will stick to their own decisions and that public resources will be treated with sufficient care. Yes, and in this spirit it is worth repeating the initiatives that we have taken together in the democratic opposition in recent days. The government should be self-limited and committed to the fight against the epidemic without shameless political personnel and taking care of its own interests and attacking a social structure that is ideologically or otherwise not close to it. At the same time, the Government should change its approach to effectively restricting infections. First of all, the proposal is to return the management of the epidemic to the hands of the epidemiological profession and to take decisions on the basis of its professional recommendations and to dismiss Mr Krek immediately. At the head of the NIJZ, a person who will restore the professional authority of this key institution and, given the worrying information on the situation at the National Institute for Public Health, has made it possible to vote professionally in crisis management. At the same time, the government should also consider replacing the official government speaker for Mr Kacin's co-vid-19 with an epidemiological person who will play a key role in communicating with the public in a calm, prudent and explanatory manner. Finally, it is time to take extraordinary measures to protect the most vulnerable groups of the population, urgently strengthen the capacity for covid-19 patients and immediately increase the means to remedy the public health situation caused by the epidemic. In doing so, three pillars are key: firstly, increasing the capacity to provide covid-19 patients, second pillar, appropriate communication of epidemic measures, and third pillar, ensuring accessibility of public health services. At the same time, we must also ask ourselves what Mr Janša meant when he said days ago that some freedoms would have to wait for some time. The public also needs answers to this question, which must be within the constitutional framework of our country. In general, there are certainly more questions than are publicly available answers, so the parliamentary investigation is still necessary. We only hope that we will all learn something from it together, whose mistakes we must not repeat in the future, that the government will sober up a bit in its work, and that the public will be aware of the mistakes and setbacks that have taken place since the beginning of this government. I sincerely thank you for your attention, happy and healthy to all.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u167	Thank you very much. We have concluded with the views of the parliamentary groups and are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. As the first debater, Mr Nik Prebil will be given the floor and Mr Marko Bandelli will be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and fellow Members! The establishment of such an investigative commission is that key tool of the opposition for democratic control over every single government. Such control and determination of possible political responsibility can only be exercised by the opponent, if we can call it that, i.e. the opposition and by no means the coalition itself, as it happened a while ago. Today, I will focus mainly on these repressive, in fact government police actions, certain measures that do not actually have anything to do with the epidemic, i.e. the health crisis they are in today, but have a lot to do with the obsessive desire to control and control all the subsystems of our society. Such measures are also in so-called anti-krone packages, which have begun to come relatively quickly with the outbreak of the first epidemic and also with the takeover of the government of Janez Janša. However, measures and provisions which basically constitute an abuse of intervention legislation to take some repressive measures that are not at all crucial to the face of the epidemic. And let me just say a few things. Additional powers after the police have begun to come to our society in the first antikoronic package. Among other things, it was assumed that the police could use even manufacturing photobots and enter foreign apartments and other premises to control the spread of covid. The Article also provides for additional powers for the police, and these additional powers have, of course, been very poorly substantiated and even insufficiently substantiated. Moreover, it was not a temporary measure, which should basically be intervention legislation, as already mentioned. This measure was not linked to the duration of the epidemic, but referred to the UNB without limitation. Then there's a 104th article we all know. He caused a lot of publicity, but then he was withdrawn, but he wanted to introduce that without a court order the police would access the most sensitive data. Of course, similar matters have been dealt with recently. PKP5 sought to enable data to be obtained outside the currently legally defined scope and purpose. Apparently, this is how the government wanted to access or create a mega database of health data by means of legislation, again intervention, under the cover of this intervention and necessity. Then there is the expansion of powers for the authorities and the police in this law, and restrictions on the collection in private places and so on. And these measures, and many others, constitute an intervention in existing legislation, of course without the possibility of voters deciding on it at the referendum, even though or because many amendments have also provided for an intervention in constitutional rights. And the focus, that key focus, began to turn from health care to control, and that's the key. We have warned the government of all, in essence, those who have been concealed, both in the List of Marjan Sarc and in other opposition parties, even from some coalitions, these warnings have come. This was also pointed out by the public, experts and government officials, such as the Ombudsman and the Information Commissioner. And because of public pressure, some of the things in the legislation were then removed, but this does not change the fact that this government has had the time not to talk again about the staffing between the epidemic, and the time instead of dealing with the real problems of ensuring a stable health network, in these crisis situations, and as much as the economy stabilises well. The first epidemic was thus abolished among the first countries in Europe by a triumphant flight of military aircraft, mostly from NATO's squadron. Only as an intermezzo, in many European countries, NATO's aircraft under the SALIS programme, in the largest aircraft, that's Antonov's aircraft, have brought in tons of protective equipment. It's a real shame that planes don't fly backwards. And it is sad that in the biggest health crisis in recent decades, this government has in fact decided to devote the largest investment piece to purchasing military equipment instead of strengthening public health. But let us not forget the fact that everything was done in the course of the change of power. What was said by those who are actually locked in the ground today and diverting attention. When we had, if I may say, a relatively small proportion of those infected today and there was a relatively nice epidemic in the first part, we could say, given the numbers today, but at that time, I'm going to say it's ugly, the government actually started 5.5 billion euros in tax money. After that, the President of the Government himself even explained that the money was no longer large, that the money was empty for the second wave. Well, apparently, the devil has taken the joke here too and we will continue to be in debt, with ever-increasing measures that severely restrict the economy. After summer silence, the infections began to rise, of course, to rise again. And it is clear that the government has completely lost its compass. Measures are taken from day to day, in fact, often contradictory, bringing a great deal of confusion among people and often we see even decision makers who do not actually take some measures into account themselves. But now that the matter has really escaped from control, with record numbers of infections and, as we can see, bad measures, once again, it is important to direct close attention to the culprits whom Janez Janša sees in this ugly opposition, which dictates on all things, and in those media, of course, except for Novi24, which they do not like and report badly, and on all state personnel and personnel in companies that are being exchanged today on the current tape. Once again during the epidemic, at a time when the government should deal with the most important issues, such as health protection. And, Your Honor, I certainly don't belong to the change of the entire control board of the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants on the night of the proclamation of the Second Epidemic. Of course on Twitter. In order to be full, the new measures taken by the Government in a worse second wave are, of course, sharper. In fact, you do not really have any remaining at this time, and I also belong to today’s relimitation of the movement of the congregations and the introduction of a curfew, and you tell her what you want. The government's ban on crossing between municipalities is the Constitutional Court, but we all know, with a narrow majority of one vote, it did cover, but it does say that this was the first time that it was not known, as an extenuating circumstance, that the Constitutional Court also cited it and will no longer do so. By the way, the main reference was to prevent a breakdown of the health system, and we all see where we are today. Indeed, this curfew, which the Government has actually justified only with an argument, is emerging from today's limitations: because it can. And even though most of these restrictions and prohibitions are subject to a way of communication that provokes incontrovertible and unconvincing people, this communication of the Government is really at the bottom. In fact, it is an excellent indicator of how this is not done, even in these crisis situations. In my opinion, people should have this hope and trust, above all, in order to respect the measures everywhere and to make it easier for people to suffer the possible really necessary restrictive and urgent measures. But what if you like to fight with everyone and do everything else than that? Again, many point to the possible unconstitutionality of this, as an emergency situation should be declared for such action by the police hours following the constitution. In fact, the State does not have an unlimited enforcement clause in place to adopt any or all of the sharpest or most restrictive measures, without the law restricting it in any way. The Constitution is the key to this parliamentary constitutional democracy that we know today, and the institution of power in the Republic of Slovenia is only a people. And it's time to set priorities, those priorities that are needed in the light of the situation, not to bypass legislation, we don't need such a priority, not to let the general public know what's going on, not to set priorities for the right people and not priorities for media and people control. The priority is people. This Commission of Inquiry will seek possible political responsibility for the state of play and unsatisfactory action. In particular, it will seek or try to find solutions to avoid such a situation, to review the actual situation and procedures and possibly to adopt appropriate grounds that will allow for a faster and more effective response, of course by limiting the fundamental rights of the people as little as possible. This is certainly a public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr Marko Bandelli. But get ready, Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u170	Thank you, Madam President. A lot of words here, I don't think it makes much sense either, because the purpose of the investigator is clear. Things in this case need to get to the bottom in a nutshell. We really need to figure out what was going on in that period, in that period. We owe it to citizens and citizens. We owe them. They're asking what was really going on. There were a lot of words on this account, the show, even people lost their jobs. So citizens are asking what was the truth and what was really going on. You know, a man has landed, a resting place when we've been interpreting him, if you say so, but that doesn't mean that he's clean, if you say so, it's simply voiced more voices on one side than on the other, and a man is cleansed of all his sins. It's not that simple, you know. I think the people here literally want clear answers from us. He wants to understand with this investigation what was going on, especially because it's theirs or we can say our money, of all of them. He needs to know that what is taxpayer's money, we need to use it transparently, first and foremost, and especially economically. These are the basics of this. Tax money, it's gold money coming into the country and it has to be spent transparently and economically. That is why this parliamentary investigation. Because, in my opinion, and also in the opinion of many, there were doubts about the procurement, in the tenders, there were privileges, that is clear, and there were doubts about the supply. That's what they say. It's all justified. Parliamentary investigations also to determine the responsibilities of procurement, if you say so. If you remember the big affair, if you say so, or if you ask a lot of questions about the mask secrets that we mentioned at the time, then we've practically finished a little on the quick side. But who approved that inappropriate product? Let one of you tell me. Has anyone approved it? We know they've been doing investigations, controlling materials, things, and stuff, but we've been paying for this whole inappropriate thing. Who gave further orders for these inappropriate things, inadequate, I say? I think we need to clear this up here too, and therefore there is also a parliamentary inquiry into how the procedure was conducted. The parliamentary inquiry, also to see the adequacy, eligibility and purpose of the equipment itself, is important here. But the basis for all of this is certainly to find, in my opinion, corrupt acts, piloting procurement, if you say so, despite the fact that we have already found during deliveries themselves that they were inadequate. That's the whole point. We can't put everything under the carpet here and say everything's fine. That's not true. They're some kind of responsibility, and we'll figure it out. You know that statement that we're saving lives, that's no excuse for slempary and amateurism. I'm sorry, but I think so, and I'm sure of what I said. I think that's exactly the point, if you say so, of determining responsibility and possible monetary exploitation - at the expense of who? The taxpayer's money. And I'm going to end with that because I think that's the point of this investigation. We want the investigation to run smoothly, with cooperation with everyone and with the conclusions that we will get to give our citizens an answer because we owe them that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The next one has the word of Dr. Franz Duck, get ready, Mrs. Mojca Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. First, let us resolve the dilemma of empty warehouses. It reads, Charec left empty warehouses, then, of course, the heighting reads, Kučan left empty warehouses, probably will continue to step up, Kidric left empty warehouses, not to mention protective equipment. I asked this government to give me the status of this protective equipment since 2000. I received an answer that he could only give me from 2006 onwards, until then there was no so-called refugee crisis 2015, no matter which government he was, there was nothing in the warehouse, a mask and in-depth protective equipment for one non-excessive healthcare home, until work, day or two, covid crisis. These are the facts, this is the table, because I've shown it here once before, given to me by this government. And we could blend back up and down now. Another time. One of the last business trips I made before the lockup was to leave for Finland at the end of November, beginning in December. I was the only representative of our National Assembly at the major COSAC meeting of the EU Affairs Committee. At the time, the outgoing Sharčé Coalition with the Tribal adopted the budget, but behind the back was already the agreement of some parties on the offence, which Janša had basically told me by October that I could soon be in real opposition. At that time, the government resigned in Finland in the middle of the EU Presidency due to an affair at the post office. It's like some sort of related affair that we have here with these masks. And of course, as I have said many times, regardless of the color of the coalition or government, some coalition and government that buys something essential, and this 148 units turns out to be only 12 units conditionally useful, which has a whole range of rich margins on the war profit, just has to stand down. Easy. And if that were to happen, and if it hadn't been for the NPU crackdown, now it's probably going to be the prosecutors on their turn, probably not even necessary for these investigators. But you know, we're only 90 in the National Assembly. Two colleagues have some specific status, and then there are Vice-Presidents, Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, Presidents, Presidents, I think we have so many of these investigations that I am not coming anymore. How many have we got now, six, seven? At least in two, the coalition will investigate itself. We have a Modern Centre, three parties that are democratic and will democratically investigate themselves, where they will say they are the best in the world if not in space. It saves life up and down. An innumerable part of my family doesn't save us every day of our lives, it saves a pretty good part of my acquaintances, my friends, and Soni has a story in his family, but they don't hesitate that it's an excuse to act the way a specific government does that we actually have. For five years I listened, in particular to the yellow-blue part of the current coalition, how would they, how would they, how would we be, well now, since 2018, with the addition of the noble we are all assholes, and then come, and see what you did between the first and second stages of the pandemic. To the question of how many of these fans there are actually, how many teams are qualified to work with them, I get the answer, yes, that is essentially the responsibility of the management of Slovenian hospitals. In short, I get an answer after the curves, because we have no idea what time it is. Just before the start of the second wave, the orders still didn't go through. Now you're going to start buying those supplements so there's not going to be condensation on the windshields. Whatever the measure is, it is the eternal infantility of one government, it does not take two or three days for a whole set to not break them. I ask myself frankly whether they are taken into account in the ministries at all, because in fact, more than half of the secretaries of state, the secretaries who come here, are wearing the mask incorrectly. Mr Hojs himself, who broke the official charter of the resignation statement, wanted to be here at the interpretation without a mask, a similarity on the committee of the Secretary of State for Health. And then one wonders who's crazy here. Probably me, because you're infallible, you can't be. In each of these PKPs, there is one thing that absolutely does not belong inside that we then cluck about the matter. In the meantime, it's being staffed by political similarities rather than abilities. I've told you before, what the State Secretary for National Security would be like to read, a high-level official at the Ministry of Culture. The Minister of Culture obviously has a number of footballers to measure how close to the culture, how close they are to the Prešeren Fund, and apparently the winners of the Prešeren Fund are not as close to the culture as they imagine they are, and so on and so on. Restricting certain freedoms - perhaps the prime minister of the government would limit his hanging on Twitter. That wouldn't be wrong. I worked very hard on my own by two serious investigators. The so-called Janieva, when we weren't just talking about Iranian pennies, we were also talking about how the Apeninian and Balkan Peninsula mafia spent decades laundering money at the Maribor Bank, which we know which political spectrum controlled it. We talked about Predor and stuff. I have been working seriously with my colleague Jelko Godec, and so seriously we could also deal with this epidemic that has escaped the pandemic if someone's delight in power is not literally turned away from using any worse, more powerful expression. In these investigators, I'm a little afraid they won't even have time to take them seriously. It is likely that this particular investigator will also be delayed in the delivery of material. The Court of Auditors had to literally threaten Restoration after three months in order to obtain the necessary necessary documents for the audit. And this is some gentleman who's been gathering omices in court over there, sniffing around how we're dealing with felonies. What are you doing? I personally believe that these investigators would not even need me if we let the autonomy of the third branch of power pass their tasks, but not, as I said before, you will prove that there were no problems with your investigator, Comrade Perič, if he wakes up, there will probably prove that I carried that money to Prijedor, but not some lady who, in fact, all the money laundering agencies in Central Europe have had on the radar, then they will come to the polls, and maybe I will not be elected and some gentlemen who have been going to this charade for 30 years will be elected again. And this is essentially a basic tragedy that no investigator will solve unless we bring citizens and citizens with electoral rights to their minds, both on the side of passive electoral rights and on the side of active electoral law. Nice afternoon, everybody.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs Mojca Škrynjar, and Mrs Jerca Korča is ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u174	Thank you very much. We have before us a legitimate initiative to create a new commission of inquiry, although there is already one such commission, for a reason, of course, to see how tax money is being spent effectively. By duplicating the commission, probably not, but it's democracy, democracy costs. This commission will deal with the events after March 13th, when the epidemic has already been declared, and nothing about the events before March 13th, which revealed all the unwillingness of the government of Marjan Sarca from empty warehouses further. As of January, we knew that a major epidemic was coming. Journalist Mitja Irsič sent videos and photographs from China daily, where Jeepidemia caught him when he visited several cities, including Vuhan. We watched completely empty streets, watched the Chinese build hospitals, and the government of Marjan Sarca nothing. Wash your hands. I myself have encouraged the Committee's meeting at the city level in Ljubljana, and we have asked the department to take certain measures. We see such measures today wherever we go. Disinfection of the hands and so on. That's where we got our answer. Wash your hands. And so the government of Marjana Sharca washed her hands and gave up nicely. All developments during the post-March crisis co-examination period have shown an extremely complex system of state regulation, excessive red tape. This, of course, was also an obstacle to action, I would say. In the initiative, I find it obvious that the government advisory group was unable to obtain data from Sursa, a state-owned firm that is strictly protected. I ask you kindly, but what strictly protected information about the population can be. When it comes to personal data, Surs can't process them anyway. I really don't know why a government group couldn't get it if it wasn't a government group, but the government itself. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia can only have an insight into everything Surs produces because he is ultimately the founder of Sursa. Members of informal groups may request, but they get what they can get. However, the government has access to all private data, and members of the Government are committed to protecting this data, if they are already confidential. Although I don't know what can be statistical and confidential, but good. I often hear in the debates that there are conflicting measures, and there are bad measures. But no one can tell what is really bad except that there was a movement restriction. The restriction on the movement of municipalities which proved to be the most effective measure, which was also discussed and decided at the end by the Constitutional Court and stated that this was a fully constitutional decision. The same is true with this hour, so-called curfew between 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., when of course we have to stay home. Why? Because the value of health and life is greater than the value of night walking around. All co-adventures relating to co-adventure were adopted on the basis of laws. Some, as I have already said, have also been tested in the Constitutional Court as regards movement. Health and life are values above values. The treatment of caregivers in homes is also mentioned. As if we didn't have an almost 12-hour meeting of the Health Committee, where doctors and other staff in their homes were insulted in long-term debates, if they hadn't done everything. They did everything and the best. And it's true, we were the best in the world, as one forerunner said. We were the best in the world, but some did everything they could not be. In addition to stumbling the government, they were willing to risk human life. It's all of you who've thrown masks on the floor, dumped schoolchildren and parents so that kids don't wear masks. But when these were removed, you started yelling, why, why don't they have them, exactly the next day. We're not stupid or deaf or blind. You've been hanging out with black men on bikes without masks, and now under the weight of guilt, because you know you're guilty, you know, all those who did this is the best defense. And you're diverting attention with some investigative group. Scream about the exchange, Furs, Surs, the NPU, but the Sharchev government made 250 changes in a bad year and a half. 250. You're saying they didn't do anything in the summer. That's not true. They doubled the number of beds, reorganized hospitals, trained additional staff, prepared protocols. And if they hadn't done that, then there would have been all kinds of Runaways who were laughing at screens as influents to people who were alerting them to the threat of the epidemic, if there weren't for what the government had done, it would be much worse today. With foolish acts and statements you bear responsibility, all of you who have thrown masks on the ground, who have said that you will not wear them, that you will not be able to tease anyone, and you will not be. You do not specify who did all this, but I will tell you: you do not state the intentional calls of Mrs Tanja Fajon that children should not wear masks in school; you do not indicate that Mr Jani Möderndorfer ripped the mask from his nose in the middle of the board meeting; you do not indicate that Violet Tomić metaled the mask on the ground in the middle of this room in the middle of the meeting. I support this investigator, yes, but unfortunately she'll find what you don't expect. The influence and guilt of all those who have done everything to counter the government, just because this government is because you don't like it. Even if it makes someone else sick and dies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The motioner has made a statement, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u176	Yes, because it was to be expected, such forgiveness, such banalization to absurdity is completely in the way of managing these crises. I'll try to follow the line. First of all, the SDS MP marks me as a friend of the Blacklists. Do you even know what you said? Do you know who the black men are today and who the black men were in the past? And that's what you say to one conscious Krashev, Primor! Shame on you! A friend of the niggers. But it's just like a call. You have already found that from 13 March forward everything was fine, but until 13 March everything was devastating, that a legitimate initiative to set up an investigative commission, although unnecessary, is actually unnecessary in your opinion because you have already identified everything to be found that. And when we're talking about Surus, we're not talking about the data they publish publicly, we're talking about the results of the statistics, we're talking about the original data. And your commission wanted to access the source data, which is extremely sensitive and also contains data that the Government may not also see and are legally protected, but that is another issue. Again, it's an excuse to come up with some banalization that fits your story. But the numbers say otherwise. You've read our incompetence before March 13th. By 13 March, a whole series of measures were implemented and taken, proportionately, effectively. You already knew what the situation was going to be like in January. Of course, you knew, but your president was skiing in the middle of the epidemiological hotspot and he was happy to publish this on social networks and your television was happy to spread it. I'll tell you what you got on March 13th. In your hands you received 13 March 197 total infected, the daily number of infected persons was 48, the total number of hospitalized persons was 21, the total number of persons in intensive therapy 4. From the government sources on 24 October, just a few days earlier, now back, the total number of infected persons 22 000 936, 24 October, is now slightly higher, the daily number of infected persons thousands of 675, the total number of hospitalized persons 508, the total number of persons in intensive therapy 71. These are numbers. They can't lie to you. Double the number of beds. I'll tell you what government sources say about this double bed count. In any case, the last month did not know how many beds were intended for covid patients. It didn't work out. I even have a series of articles here, and I can show you what the media reported from government sources. We don't have that kind of time. Since March 13th, when the current 14th government first met, and then, let's remember, destroyed 50 of the best protective masks for health workers, because what we wear is not a protective device, these are hygiene assets, it destroyed 50 of the best protective masks of FFP3. Since then, the actual state of infection has exploded. And that this has happened is the responsibility of your government alone, your government alone and the inability to act effectively. We stayed by the beds. So when did the government respond to the apparent shortage, even with regard to the exponential number of people infected? This weekend, this weekend. What matters to you is more plastic than yesterday. And that's a message from the government itself, the one before yesterday. I quote: “We carried out several activities at the Ministry of Health during the weekend to provide the necessary beds for patients with covid-19. Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar explained: "In the coming days, more than 700 beds are likely to be needed to deal with COVID-19 patients, we have already provided them. However, intensive discussions are under way to prepare an additional 300 in the coming days, a total of 1000.” And so on. Then he finds out where the problem really is - the lack of personnel. We've been aware of that since the beginning. And that's why this government has had seven months to come up with different plans to deal with this crisis. Did she do something? No, no, no. When my fellow Member Jani put the mask off his face, when was that? When that government said the epidemic was gone. Just a few days before the planes flew over this building. And now you have a face to tell us. Your ministers walk directly from health homes or from containers where samples are taken — where do they go? To the cosmetics. Because that's what they say they can do, because they understand the measures the most. The whole world doesn't understand them, nor do our citizens, but your ministers understand them perfectly. Other ministers go to the gallery to make promotional films. Please don't put sand in my eyes with such forgiveness, because it's wrong and it's not true. And stop fooling around. This government has, let's be honest, all the time the opposition has claimed it has passed the exam. And who's responsible for that? People, opposition, media. Yes, we are all responsible now, just not the one who designed these measures and who received the new 675 infected on 24 October. We are guilty and responsible. It's not that simple. If the number of infected people can be attributed to various factors, measures or even your interpretations, we cannot claim this to be a health system, we should adjust it, and you have covered it here. Now how? On account of the delay, we double the number of beds. Let's just say how. Yes, to be taken away, to be taken away as necessary, and I plan to intervene. So what's tomorrow? Tomorrow people will die from inflammation of the appendix, such pure banal things in the 21st century, or from complications of diabetes. And that's what you've been warned there'll be a second wave. You screamed out loud, the second wave was coming, the second wave was coming. We saw on TV yesterday, the Jozef Stefan Institute told you earlier this summer that the number of people infected is doubling every six days and that this is a sign that things will escalate sooner or later. What was the reaction? No, no, we're going to the sea, we're going to clean the pools. You can go to the sea on Thursday if you leave on Friday when you get back, you'll have to go to quarantine. You can go abroad if you have outside the weekend, because the virus is very selective, as far as the property situation of an individual, an individual citizen, if he has a boat or a weekend in Croatia, then there is no way he can get sick. If he goes five minutes before 12 and then returns, he doesn't need to be quarantined, but if he goes two minutes later, he has to go to quarantine. This is what this commission of inquiry wants to investigate and show you once, clearly, because no one understands, and at least you, what these measures require of us at all. We respect them, people have proven them, so the first wave was so successful. Because everyone said what, what did they mean? Okay, well, it doesn't matter, we're gonna stick together so we can beat this virus. But it's not as simple as you explain it. And this chaos, today's, changing decisions overnight. What's that supposed to mean? It just proves to all of us that this government has no idea and that it is rounding down the last measures. Now that it's gone really far, she's going to try to prove herself to be the one who's in control of the situation. Unfortunately, she doesn't control it. But it's controlled by the health system, and it's been breathing on gills for months. And what did you do? Nothing. In PKP5, we have adopted, said the Minister, in PKP5, so last month you have taken measures that will now be able to resolve this. Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The Replica has Mrs. Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u178	Thank you very much. The saying says, when you step on a cat's tail, it's a whine, but this wasn't squawking, before squawking, I think. As far as blacks are concerned, the fact is that bikers have been made into black shirts, and the fact is that some members of some customers have been associated with them, and you cannot deny it. You lied about the president skiing in the middle of a hot tub. That's not true. We've cleared this up a long time ago, and the picture was symbolic from before, and it wasn't there. The president was at home. You're talking about how the total number of patients was low when Charche's government left. I'll tell you even lower, they were nothing in June, interestingly, but it wasn't Sharc's government, but it was Janš's government. You speak without numbers, but those that are are are wrong. Additional beds, 700 plus 300, weren't pulled out of their pocket yesterday, but they were planned and organized in the summer. Additional beds are also provided in hotels and resorts, not just in hospitals, and this is clear to the public. You're saying the problem isn't just space, it's cadres. I told you that they've reorganised, as far as the personnel are concerned, that the personnel are being transferred, that the personnel are being trained. And within seven months, you know you can't even educate a butcher how to be a nurse or a doctor, unless you think the matter has to work like the Zerzhinski Academy, where it's learned very fast butcher business. But Edward Cardel's University no longer exists, and no more schnapps. You're talking about abroad being brought from abroad. Look, abroad around us now has fewer cases than we do. The cause was domestic entertainment, as well as protests in the middle of the city. And who encouraged this? You encouraged all those I've named before. Those who are from the screens, let them be the leaders of various television houses, be the members of the customers who have thrown masks on the floor that you said you will not wear, who you said is unrelated, that children have masks, that it is terrible to teach children, that you do not see their expression if they have masks up. Yeah, and then the next day, and now you should be wearing masks. You're creating chaos. That's a fact. But if there is any mistake in this government, it may be that it is too democratic and too trusting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Madam Members, I must warn you that the replica is intended to explain what you were not understanding in your debate. In your replica, all that touched your debate was the topic of the Blacklists, and the rest flew your comment on the proposaler's substantive discussion. So I suggest that the second time I left you to complete your three-minute replica, but still, let the other stick to your topic that you discussed and further explain it in your replica. [[…]] What do you want now? Procedural? Here you go, Mrs. Boxer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u180	You said I had three minutes to explain the procedure. So please, if you don't interrupt me three minutes ago [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u181	Have I interrupted you by any chance? Please, if you don't prejudge my actions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u182	Yeah, and you don't have mine. Look, the answers please remember, this is my procedural proposal to remind you that I replicated correctly, namely the black shirts and the extra beds [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u183	Mrs. Škrnjar, this is not a procedural proposal [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u184	Yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u185	And at this point, I'm going to interrupt you and take your word for it, because we stick to all the rules that are set out in the Rules of Procedure. And there is no article in the Rules of Procedure where any member of the Bureau could suggest that he remember something. This is not a procedural proposal, but you are discussing substantively with me now. So I suggest you turn it off if I don't. Thank you very much. Now let's get on with it. The motioner has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u186	It is precisely because today, in the past, especially on your part, the rules of procedure are interpreted very selectively, that I must respond. Just get to the photo first. The best way out today, as long as the photo suits you, you and your president, has been published on your media. When you saw that you blew him through, you just pulled her away and found the story you were justifying it with. The number of infected people across Europe, in neighbouring countries, is only in Slovenia, we are really famous for having fun, and then we go cycling and get infected with each other, so it's a pleasure. Ah, come on, that's the holy forgiveness I told you about before, and banalizing it. As for the bed and the readiness of the system, listen to today’s Health Committee in the morning. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Health has acknowledged, certainly not by chance, that the situation has caught us unprepared. And one of them can admit and take responsibility, obviously, for the hat down to the secretary and hat down to the minister of health, because the last months or after two months, when he wasn't in the media, he's now showing up and starting to put out what he can put out. And you obviously will never be able to accept these responsibilities and admit a mistake. You slept over the summer. You didn't do anything. And today we have a score. But he's being rescued by the public health system. A public health system with self-sacrifice and ethical drive. And there was not one measure that would facilitate the work of this system.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u187	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mrs. Jerca Korce has the floor. Mr. Beating the replicas to the replica isn't because she had Mrs. Boxing You have a replica to her discussion? And you're going to explain what you didn't understand in your discussion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would like to replicate to my colleague because she obviously did not understand my debate in the part where I explained the failure of the measures taken by the current government and, therefore, what the investigative commission will do. And exactly what the colleague says wasn't done, of course your government didn't. Your government is the one who today holds the ruling power as the executive branch of power, that is, the government of Janez Janša and the coalition partners, among whom you are also. So I'm asking you not to cheat in the National Assembly. However, I will also use this replica, honourable Vice-President, for a procedural proposal. On the contrary, I would like a fellow Member to apologize to me personally. Because it compares me to black men and protestors, I've never been there, and it's never been said that what we all throw masks on the ground, that we all don't respect measures to say that the virus doesn't exist, it doesn't. And I never said that in this national council. That was said yesterday, so please, if you're talking about who didn't do something and who did something to make a name for them, but not to throw all the Members into it, because we're not the same, colleague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The procedural proposal is not in place because the Rules of Procedure do not allow me to ask any Member to apologize to anyone, so I suggest that they take this into account for the external doors. Now we continue the debate. Mrs Jerca Korce has the floor. Mrs Andre Zabret is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good-bye, everybody! Now, from that side, from the main government party, it's just that there's been a desire, just like lately, strongly through all the seasons they've been through, and that's how to get the blame on everyone else. It's the media, it's the opposition, it's the protestors, it's the culturers, there's a handful of some wannabe influenzars that appear, and so on. In short, it's everyone else's fault. It's not like that. Even if you want to present the matter as such, no one can believe you because the numbers show a different picture because the chronology of the events since the flight of the aircraft shows a different picture. And you won't be able to change that. History is what it is. And today we are where we are. The SDS lady was keen to show herself how guilty Marjan Sarec was. You know, that's funny. On 15 March, with 35 confirmed cases, today we are in the situation of a thousand and 500 confirmed cases a day. And in the meantime, you ran the government. You show that you're very capable of being bullied by the opposition. But, my dears, you're a government party today and running the country, yes, no one ever said it was easy work. No one has ever said that this does not require human responsibility, but in these months you have proved that you are incapable of it. And there's nothing wrong with admitting it. There's absolutely nothing wrong. More than that, it would be a highly esteemed act. What did you do? I'll quote you on the government's answer. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 5. Member Korča, that is, I have addressed to the Government the question concerning the measures of treatment, the preparation of measures and so on when the second wave comes, 18. 5. The government replied three months later. Nothing wrong, I understand that it took her three months to answer, because in these three months she has actually prepared these measures. I understand. And now I am referring to one answer that is very important to me, and it reassured me at the time, because I already thought this aspect was the most important aspect, namely how will the Government arrange for the provision of health services, so that in the case of the second wave it will not end again with the provision of certain essential health services. And the Government replied: “In the event of an increase in the number of infections or in the case of a second wave, we do not plan to stop the delivery of health services, since health care at the primary level is better prepared and equipped with protective equipment for early detection of infections, and hospitals are also ready to receive covid-19 patients.” I'm not going to read ahead. You can read it. You have this answer on the web. So it's 13. 8. The Government provides me with a very important fact that in the case of the second wave, when we know more about the virus, we will not cancel other health services. Why does it matter, my dear? Because there's not just covid in this country. It's just a virus we're dealing with, but people have other health problems and they need other services. Otherwise, this wave, this snowball, people who don't visit doctors today, people who don't get a special checkup today, are going back to this country, and the victims aren't going to count just the ones who are on the monitor. Do we understand what we're doing? And today, today's Journal you have the articles "In view of the experience of the first wave, the treatment programme could be reduced by at least 40%, but we are afraid, given the worse epidemiological situation, that the fallout would be even higher." 40%. And I'm reading another article in the Journal today, Germany doesn't have these problems. Well, look why. Not because the number of infected people would have been so low. True, all countries face an increase in the number of infected people, but in Germany, Austria and elsewhere where they have developed a health system in the interim period from the first to the second wave. This government didn't do it. Why am I proving this to you, because today it's clear you didn't do this? And I'm going to show you on one banal case what you haven't done in all these months. If, as soon as distance learning is introduced, the system collapses, it is a sign to me that the top of the Ministry of Education has not passed the test, it has not asked downstairs. It sums up this matter, of course, on Arnes, but political responsibility is always on the minister. And if the only job he has is to deal with how in the second wave he'll prepare his system, in that case education, for distance education, then he'll do some test. Turn the phone, call, say, hello guys, September 5th, call schools, do a test. But you didn't do it, just like you didn't do anything else on all systems and subsystems. But it's the fact that you've made personnel changes, attacked the NPU, joined agencies, attacked culturers. I mean, what does that have to do with the preparations for the second wave? And because of dealing with all these things, including that our Tweet interferes with who will be elected president in America, and then speaks to the citizens, and be sober. So who is he, the tweet troll or the president of the government? And for seven months, I understand, of course, the butcher doesn't even get an education in seven months. But do you know what can be done in seven months? Also prepare a scenario of how we will call for appropriate communication, retired, how we can use the army to inform contacts. This is what some countries do. And we're going through 37.A. Next thing you know, you got into a fight with the Chinese. I'm not saying it's the most optimal option, but you've argued with them, you're putting yourself on the American side, and of course no one has rushed to the Chinese embassy to ask us if you can provide us with some of your teams. Because the 5G story was so important that Prime Minister Janez Janša showed some of his strength and went down American ass. But you know, these cases that I'm listing right now, I can give you a thousand. And in fact, for me, the political responsibility identified by the commission of inquiry has already been proven. There's no more suspicion for me, and it's no longer possible. That's what we wrote when we were, because we thought maybe it wouldn't. In the end, it turned out to be what it was. But to people without self-criticism, without self-reflection, political responsibility means nothing. Because if political responsibility meant anything, a large part of this government would have already left and been replaced in one way or another. Moreover, the political responsibility of these same people sitting in the government today does not mean anything because Mr Hanžek has demonstrated political responsibility in his investigative commission. Shall I tell you my last names? Pahor, Jansha, Visjak, Lakhovnik. Sounds familiar, doesn't it? So much for taking on the political responsibility of these same suits. The other thing that is important to me, and I hope that it will also be the result of this commission of inquiry, but it is that we show where changes are needed in our systems so that such a fiasco does not happen. Since wrong people are currently in positions of leadership, this investigative commission cannot be resolved. And yes, it all starts and ends with people, with people, with people in communication, with us not being citizens or not being minors, uninhabited people who don't understand things if someone explains them. No, we're going so little overnight, I'm going to let one tweet down, one tweet, and I'm going to let one twitter down, and I'm going to let one twitter down, so people need, for the first time, an understanding to explain to them why one measure is good, why in the first wave it worked to respect it, to internalize it. [[…]] And secondly, people need this to be normally communicated, to also prepare some things in their lives. It's not like that, yeah, but I've been locked up in the congregations since tomorrow. Even if two or three days earlier he hears that we're going to be in the regions, then we're going to evaluate the matter, and then in two days, it's a different tweet. You're wrong to communicate. And you can admit that. I will not be too long, but I really hope that this commission of inquiry will have, at least, that we will end up as a positive draw out of what this parliament can change on a legal level. On this segment of political leadership, however, this commission of inquiry can do nothing because you are politically responsible for everything that has happened and from the flight to today, if you want. Since practically nothing has been done, except for the many previously mentioned cleaning of pools, arrangements with Plenković, while Mrs Beović warned you – I have here, I can print you, Mrs Škrnjar, and read the chronology - 17 June to close the borders. So much for respect for the profession. You disrespected her, and today you do not respect her, and you go your own way. And it's not good. It's really not good. And finding the culprits in others won't lead you out of this spiral that you've turned into. But I will tell you here, as before, from this moment forward, I will also respect the measures and always tell the one to whom I have influence that the measures must be respected, because we are an example for the citizens. But I'm asking you to tell your people once, for God's sake, because your people are absolutely nothing more valuable than everyone else. I really don't. [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mrs Škrnjar, please calm down so that we can continue in peace with the debate. Mrs. Andrea Zabrett has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u192	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Yeah, we're all aware of the gravity of the situation. If in the first wave, when we knew little about the virus and its consequences, it's still somehow understandable that there was a lockdown, which is irresponsible in the second wave. In particular, it is irresponsible that the government has been asleep until September since the end of May when a famous flight caused the outbreak. Of course, it's just about getting ready for the second wave. That he would come, we knew. It has been pointed out by the profession, but the government has nevertheless dealt with everything else, such as the recruitment of all possible institutions and the resolution of Croatian tourism. So much for the words of the Prime Minister that now we really know more about the virus and that it will make it easier. But it's easier for the friends of the Prime Minister in particular. We know an expert group of experts led by Matthew Lahovnik, who is expected to save the Slovenian economy. Not only did the group not have a legal basis for its operation, but it also wanted access to all administrative registers on the SURS under cover, including to the most sensitive information on persons and businesses. Moreover, the effects of government measures on coronaryism would be examined only by those who proposed them. Here I should really replicate my colleague Škrnjar from SDS, how easily it speaks, why the group could not get data, how the government could not get data, but state statistics have rules. And one of the principles is statistical confidentiality. And statistics are managed by data of a personal nature. We know that this falls to certain laws and that is why not everyone can access the data because it is an expert group. And this expert group just wanted or needed different cooperation from the State Bureau of Statistics, and therefore, for the first time in the history of our country, the director of SURS had to say goodbye prematurely. Why? Because he did not agree to the demands of the members of the group and did not wish to act unlawfully. I hear the group was working for the pro bono, but now we see that they still got paid. These pro bono experts are now sitting in the supervisory boards of state-owned companies. At the SID Bank, Mr Polanec and Masten, Mr Lahovnik at Krka, Mr Simič at SDH and Mr Matoz at the Slovenian Railways. That's what the government was doing. Then she was surprised by the second wave. The number of infected is growing, we have too few beds and staff to provide for patients, we have a curfew, the movement is limited to municipalities, there is a second lockdown. And the fact is, if the government were to prepare for the second wave in time, such strict measures would probably not be necessary at all. Their consequences have already been learned in the spring and continue, some will not be noticed until later, they will be known in the economy and future economic pictures of Slovenia, as well as in the psychological state of people. It really hurts my heart to see what the consequences will be for the economy. Scare people, change measures practically from hour to hour, while the visible members of the government, that is, ministers, or even the director of NIJS, do not hold, and then look for inappropriate excuses, all of this is extremely rude and humiliating to citizens. The government just thinks she's allowed everything, so she's taking advantage of the current situation. It's not like that. It is because of the situation that we should be so careful and consistent that people trust you to work for the good of all, not just for your interests. It is true that lockdowns effectively limit the spread of the virus, but at the same time, according to economists, lockdowns also lead to a new recession. There are zombie companies that can no longer survive without state coronation. So as soon as the measures cease to work, there can be economic – unemployment, bankruptcy — in addition to the health crisis. Does the government have a strategy here? At the same time, we don't even know what you're doing with public money. Nor did the fiscal council from the balance sheet of this year's budget have a clear understanding of how much and what covid expenditure is. This is therefore a complete lack of transparency, which, given that the state is exceptionally increasing expenditure and public debt, is totally unacceptable. And clearly, in just a few months, this government has put the country in huge debt. With the rebalancing of this year's state budget, which is expected to end the year with a record 4.2 billion deficits, we are yet to adopt budgets for the next two years, both with billions of deficits. In three years, the state budget is expected to generate 8.5 billion deficits. This year, the State Treasury has already committed 7 billion euros. At the end of 2019, the country's debt of EUR 31.7 billion is expected to be almost 38 billion by the end of this year. Wow, we're talking big numbers. At the same time, I wonder why all these deficits and the higher debt, where are all the strong billions that John Janša negotiated in Brussels? Don't make any mistake. We are not opposed to the debt; that is how the European Union is currently solving the crisis. Unlike the previous crisis, macro-economic doctrine has changed this time – countries are helping people and the economy, promoting consumption and therefore debt. But the important thing, or even the most important, is that we owe ourselves wisely. For projects that will drive our economic growth in the future, public debt will also be reduced relative to GDP. It is green digital transformation, energy recovery, energy efficiency, energy storage, green technology in production, transport and social infrastructure, e-mobility, digital business. These projects need to be entrusted and spent by the EU on the resources available to us over the next few years. If we do not use the debt that increases our public debt to invest multiplely or improve our economy, we will face another debt crisis. And the consequences will be felt by the next generation. It is in the hands of the government to decide whether to choose good or bad debts. It is a huge responsibility to take Slovenia on the right path. But I'm worried about the modus operandi of this government. Just as it treats people ignorantly, it has also drawn up a draft national plan for resilience and recovery, which is the basis for EU funding. The European Commission has serious comments on the plan where it is assessed that the plan is too general, too superficially composed and that the project values are significantly above the amount available to Slovenia. Again, too little transparency and too little specificity. You act like it's the money of the ruling SDS. But no, it is the money of all citizens and citizens, so it would be right to have a broad public debate on why we will spend it. It's still time. Unfortunately, for now, we know more about the French and Slovak plans. And there's something else I'm worried about. So far, you have not shown yourself by your fire-fighting measures to mitigate the impact of the epidemic on the economy. The effectiveness of the measures is not what you boast. Slovenia has taken measures by delaying two to five weeks for other countries, which also shows the inefficiency of the measures. We have missed the implementation of incentives for employees, making use of fiscal measures by the end of August only 36%. Only 1.2 billion were used. Not to mention the liquidity guarantee scheme for the economy, which the government has announced as a key element in the resolution of the liquidity of businesses and the economy and in Germany, this was one of the first and key measures, but unfortunately it still does not work for us. The law was adopted in April and only at the end of June did the government adopt a regulation allowing banks to initiate an operational loan approval process. Thus, the government has wasted too much time and has not offered timely aid to companies with liquidity problems. Therefore, the companies most in need of loans did not receive them. In the LMŠ we have prepared an amendment to solve the problem, and the coalition has smoothed it down, like all the other amendments we have proposed so far in all five PKPs. Of the total quota of two billion guarantees, only 30.57 million were used by the Bank’s SID until 16 October, i.e. for 23 loans. Practically nothing. However, when the loan can be deferred for one year, the figures are completely different. Nearly 25,000 applications were submitted, of which 18,000 cases involve the role of natural persons, indicating a great deal of pressure for people to pay off their loans. I can't imagine what's gonna happen in a year when people have to start paying off these loans. Let me get this straight. It is right that the country helps people and the economy. State interventionism was necessary due to covid-19. This is how we have reacted in the current situation, taking into account the reactions of all Europe. But I stress that the most important thing is how we spend this money, whether we invest only in short-term measures and fire-fighting or watch ahead and promote economic growth through measures. It is also important that we invest in science and research. However, I am afraid that due to the reckless measures and the lack of transparency and self-sufficiency of this government, this account will be repaid much longer than would have been the case if the government had chosen slightly different, more effective measures and completed them more.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The list of debaters is changing rapidly, so I will read the remaining debaters in turn. The first one gets the word, Mr. Jože Lenart, then Mag. Bojana Muršič, Jožef Lenart, Igor Pecek and then like the last Mrs Alenka Jeraj. Mr. Jože Lenart, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will never forget the publication on the current government's website, this comparison of the average price of suppliers of protective equipment. See why I'm doing this again today. This table was given up in early May and this government did not even include VAT in its prices in this comparison. And the following, we have proved several times through discussions that this table is misleading, and the government has not yet fixed or removed this table, so today I am showing it in public. We are not as valuable people, citizens and citizens as we are to be transparent about this government. This is a very humiliating, unprofessional deception to the public. For what purpose, of course, I would like a final answer. That's another thing. A few days later, the government of Janez Janša published a schedule of events on the portal. However, there is no key action by the government of Marjan Šarc in this timeline. This timetable is also still on the portal and does not include the essential actions of the government of Marjan Šarca, which have already been adopted. That's 25. 2. 2020 The Ministry of Health shall meet with all Directors of the Health Institutions of Slovenia. This is on the day of the meeting of the Health Committee in the National Assembly on the upcoming covid-19 virus, with the presence of its Excellency and Assistant Ambassador of Italy in Slovenia. In a meeting with all the directors of the institutions, they shall agree on measures and provide data on protective equipment, including fans, together, and on the number used for covid-19 purposes. At the same meeting, it shall be agreed that all directors shall be required within three days, up to 28. 2. 2020, provide further written information to the Ministry of Health. On the basis of this list, of course, a list of the necessary equipment is made by hospitals, at which time the purchases were considered to be through hospitals to prepare health care for the coming virus. In doing so, let me mention that I know a concrete case from my hospital in Koroška that the then director purchased 10 fans, and those real ones that work with which they can work, even though they had to hand this order over to the government, were fortunately purchased by these fans and my hospital today can use these fans and can also work with them, then there is no need to shop. From this date, 28. 2. 2020, the Ministry of Health or Government has current information on equipment, and the government of Janez Janša never recognises it. The government of Janez Janša also does not provide records of protective equipment in April and May, mainly providing mixed data for fans, trainers. We're helping her with this right now. Otherwise, we must make a request for information of a public nature to public health institutions to obtain official information that has already been provided by the Ministry of Health. Unfortunately, in the time of digitisation and so well-known, powerful government of Janez Janša in two, three months, the Ministry of Health is unable to obtain this data. Of course, there's data there, but they can't be publicly presented. If I were to get in the car and visit all 15 institutions, hospitals and, of course, clinical centres, I would describe the fans myself in two days. 26. 2. 2020 The Ministry of Labour calls for homes for the elderly on the severity of the new virus and calls for preventive hygiene and other measures on the basis of the NIPO's orientation. Home in Isola the next day even closes the visiting homes on its own. 28. 2. 2020 The government of Marjana Sharca is releasing the supplies of protective equipment and making a request for replacement of stocks. 6. 3., be careful, the most important information to me, when I look at this epidemic, Mrs Klampfer, Minister of Labour has issued a measure of total ban on visiting home for the elderly among the first in Europe. Seven. 3. Hospitals are closed for visits, including among the first in Europe. Look, these are today, for this government one of the most important measures to close down, to limit itself and wonder why it was not worth mentioning at the publication of this timeline to the Government the measures taken by the government, which were so important, of course, by the government of Marjan Sarca. It could only be two to whether the government of Janez Janš at the time of its publication in May 2020 had not yet recognised the gravity of these measures or that it simply wanted to conceal these measures from the government of Marjana Sarca. I would really like a concrete answer to that once. The second area I would like to draw attention to is the CAP measures. We wonder whether the government of Janez Janš is still convinced that the measures of PKP1, 2, 3, 4, 5 are targeted for the groups, in line with the basic objectives of the declared epidemic. Representatives of individual groups asked themselves publicly. Otherwise, we are glad that we have received assistance, we will not defend ourselves, we will not defend ourselves, but why we are among the first, if we have not lost anything in the epidemic, and certain groups of citizens and citizens are without help in doing so. Today, we would be in bloody need of financial support for those who are or will be without income, for those who need help with care, medical assistance, and medical assistance. And see, the President of the Government today says that no new funding is available for these purposes. The government has continued to boast about large financial support. PKP2 with 2 billion. However, I did not see the Government informing the economy that the PKP2 measure was ineffective. Why is it not feasible in practice? What the Government will do to enable the economy to receive financial assistance through the state or European mechanisms. On the other hand, we are monitoring the success of this measure in Germany, which worked well already in March. So how to go on or how to do so, if you are warning so much that the measures are similar and comparable to those in most other European countries. Of course, the public believes this, but in practice it is different, but slowly the truth and these problems come to pass. Next, ready for the second wave. Preparation for the second wave of covid-19 epidemic in Germany, Austria is good. What about us? What I'm about to say is I'm practically speaking firsthand. Why didn't we have separate cod units in the hospital? Why didn't we set up a hospital covid? Why are we only doing this now that the scale of the epidemic is already here? Why haven't we trained healthcare professionals over the summer who aren't anesthesiologists who aren't microbiologists? Why didn't we train the volunteers? Why didn't we get teams of Chinese instructors who beat the virus? We'd rather have a fight with them. Whether we are aware that Intensive patients are still in intensive care because of coviding these patients, there will be no less, even more, because prevention works worse. Are we aware that the new covid departments should not be near the current intensive departments? Because it would be a disaster for the virus to penetrate the intensive wards. Are we aware that new co-vid wards of difficulty are decided by doctors and medical personnel from other departments, as they go to an area where they have to face a treatment doctrine that is not yet fully controlled and must be taught. And second of all, they have to leave their patients at this time. Whether we are aware that we are thus endangering the health of these groups, that waiting species are naturally increasing but not shrinking. Here I must draw attention to Sweden, and this has been clearly pointed out recently by a Slovenian doctor on TV who works at one of their hospitals and has made it clear that they have been making special efforts from the very beginning to ensure that patients, despite the virus, come to the doctor as much as possible. They realize, of course, that without regular treatment, without the preventive programmes they have been building for years, there can be a serious problem of deterioration of the health of the population, which, for this reason, will put an even greater burden on health and human health. Health teams that today provide co-vid departments through hospitals rely heavily on the CAP, a healthy farm of brains, of course, both in health care and in nursing homes. For the confusion of instructions by the ministries and governments are still inconsistent, contradictory, surprising, and even unfulfilled. And the next thing we know for a short time, what a colleague has said is better to warn you twice than to overlook it again. According to the budget documents presented for 2020, 2021 and 2022, the State of the Republic of Slovenia will owe an additional 11 billion over the three years, from 31 billion to 42 billion, of course if everything goes according to an optimistic plan, otherwise who knows where we will land. Are we aware that this is the one-year budget of the Republic of Slovenia? Which country will be in charge of an annual budget at this time, I wonder. By the time of economic growth 2014 and 2019 we had managed to return only half a billion. God knows who and how he can repay existing and emerging debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Bojana Muršič, prepare Mr. Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia and the world as well, this epidemic virus has come unexpectedly, but this unexpectedness has only been an excuse for the first wave. At that time, the spread of this virus was very close, the need for protective equipment was growing, followed by the government, there was no denying it, not at all. But this fight, which was fought by the government against the virus, was marked by controversial purchases of protective and medical equipment. Of course, the government has taken advantage of the opportunity to make purchases through intermediaries, and so, in my opinion, it has not acted economically, efficiently and also on the issue, otherwise I will not judge, whether it has acted legally or not, and it has definitely not. It is absolutely necessary to stress that the epidemic cannot be and must not be an excuse for misleading and spending public money. This is absolutely not allowed. Today we heard in the debates that there was a great deal done over the summer, but I will point out my question to the Minister in August, where we are, what awaits us in the fall, because epidemiologists have predicted that we will have a second wave. And then I wondered what this meant for our health system at both the primary, secondary and tertiary levels, how doctors will be treated in a personal doctor, how the specialist level will be done and how dental activities will be carried out, what will happen in emergency transports, because even in emergency transport, you need to know that these people suffer when they receive an invitation to go to the field, they have to dress up in suits and so accept patients, and they are running low, they are burned out, burned out, and they simply can't do it anymore in the long run. But look at the fragment, and from August to October, I didn't get an answer. The question really arises to me whether we were so prepared, why then there was no answer in September, within the legal period within which we were obliged to receive it. And I'm really asking a question. And yes, at the first wave, the number was significantly smaller, there were measures, today, what we have today, how many are infected, how many are hospitalized, today we have 22 000 936, this is the condition of the infected 24. 10, a thousand 675 daily infections, 508 hospitalized, 71 in intensive care. In the first wave, this was significantly less, the measures were, we were ready, we are not ready today. And yes, covid, it's not just covid in Slovenia, people get sick also because of other diseases. The problem is also the mental health of people, because these measures, which are different from tomorrow, simply cause psychosomatic trauma. And just yesterday there was also talk about the need for government speakers to be encouraged to communicate with a patient, clear voice. And if I touch this movement, sports and recreation activities and walks. Last week the ban, the movement in nature with the mask. Yeah, fine, we all dated masks, we went into the woods, instead of going for some fresh air, you breathed your air back, and you walked there on the geese, and God didn't see you alive. But I respected the measures, and I had a mask up, and it really seemed stupid to me. And look at the fraction, yesterday's Ministry or Government announces that in walking on green surfaces and sports-recreation activities where it is possible to keep at least three metres apart from other individuals, regardless of the other decisions, individuals and groups from the common household need not wear a protective mask. I don't know, but maybe they figured it out themselves when they went for a walk, and they saw how kind of weird that was. You're wearing a mask and no one sees you. I don't know, I mean, there's really a question. And people are confused. And people are still asking what now that I'm going for a walk, but I have to wear a mask or not. I absolutely support that, where it is not possible to provide a meter and a half of a safety distance, this is taken into account. But let's leave. Now, thank God, we've come to the point where we can breathe fresh air, because that's why we go to the air to get our brains oxygen, not to breathe our air back again and then come back with a headache. That's how it happened to me. What's going on with this co-vid, because now everything is co-vid, will leave long-term consequences in health care. We really need to ask ourselves what we will do to ensure that people are provided in time and that they receive adequate health care. Use all resources. That's what I think we're all clear on here today. But what we did. We invited the concessionaires. Please come work there. Thank God, there are some who are willing to work. I want to know what private doctors do, private doctors. What about them? But are they doing their work, or have they put a trade or part or espa to rest or wait and wait for the basic income? I don't know, I'm asking, because that's my question. I mean, because it really doesn't take you anywhere anymore. Communication, just and only communication, as I said in the position of the Group of Members, why Mr Krek is not suitable for the Director of the National Institute. That's six. 4. 2020 was followed by the fact that, without the measures they were taking, 480 000 people were infected in Slovenia and 90 000 were dead. But do we know what 90,000 dead are? That's a whole Maribor. But today we have substantially, substantially fewer dead, thank God, and I hope that will be the case. But allow me in this place to thank all the medical personnel and all the volunteers who are helping to save this covid. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Joseph Lenart has the word to prepare Igor Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u198	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! The act authorising a parliamentary inquiry to determine the actual situation and possible political responsibility of the LMŠ and part of the opposition shall submit a parliamentary inquiry and thus impose a parliamentary inquiry on the Parliamentary Assembly and shall be examined by ministers and other public function holders on the basis of criteria, whether public funds have been used rationally, ineffectively and inadvertently or irrationally, and whether or not public funds have also been disbursed. What can I say, properly, you need to support this investigation. And then there are other things that are listed in this material. We'll also talk again about whether too many people have died or not. It's a tough topic, I have to say. And we've also talked about these things, which I've just drawn a little bit, at one of the ministers' interpretations, so it's been quite heard. Of course, I also wonder about the usefulness of two commissions of inquiry or investigations with the same content, but with different dates of initiation or the time when irregularities in this crisis and acquisitions are being investigated, and of course the correctness or irregularity of the measures. Let us hope that the blame is found to find the truth, but then to prove, in fact, equally on both sides, not just on one. For from the presentation of the LMŠ, to help, I must say, thank you very much for wanting to help this government, so that we do not repeat mistakes, but let us hope that it does not turn out to be the opposite later, so that it wants to adjust. Because if there was any way to scan another minister of this government or maybe even a government, then I think that Mr Sharpe and LMŠ would disappear this acidic expression from his face. I have to say, it's hard when you lose a function, but it's even harder if you degrade yourself, and then you actually have to keep working with those same people and those who were subordinate to you before, and now they're your bosses. And from this I will also come out, some of this speculation, and I hope that there is another way of doing this, that we can participate more, and that we have all been a real example to our citizens, that now all the measures that have been given are suddenly ineffective. I don't know, the entrepreneurs didn't say all the measures were ineffective. We also know that many jobs have actually been preserved by these measures; they are not elsewhere; in Europe, unemployment has even increased more than we have, somehow stands. We hope it stays that way and so on. If I may now touch further that, of course, this crisis has come as a lightning bolt and we have somehow, when firefighters fire the house, they also water the parts of the house that they did not burn, but actually do some collateral damage with that flooding. And no one in this government has ever said that a mistake has been made or that something has not been done to make a difference today. And in fact, there was somehow a search for solutions that are still happening today. It's the right thing to talk about. However, I hope that this parliamentary investigation will in fact not turn into some self-promotion of the opposition's sent groups. Somehow I find that some have learned an excellent game, probably had a good professional player as a mentor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u199	Proposer Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Once again, it is necessary to make it clear. When we prepared documentation for the establishment of this commission of inquiry in the opposition, of course, the situation was different, and our predictions were different. Some of the actions seen have already been proven in this process, and some will be proved. And the Commission of Inquiry has been proposed not only to identify political responsibility or possible suspicious financial consequences, regardless of which side they reach out to, but also to other issues that have arisen in the entire so-called fight against the epidemic. The National Assembly and the Commission of Inquiry are not a court, they will not identify crimes, but they will look for those elements of this fight against the epidemic, this government fight against epidemics that must never happen again. And I've heard a couple of times that we just want to guess. I'm just monitoring everything that's going on around us. First of all, the issue of trust, credibility, is also the issue raised in the file for the Commission of Inquiry. And if we go home to trust, a few weeks ago this graph came out, you've all seen how many people trust people who talk about the current state in Slovenia about the epidemic. And I tell you, Janez Janša, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is in the last place by trust. In the last place, just in front of Aleš Hojs, probably because of a letter of resignation that has never been accepted, such a person, once he has given up, cannot be worthy of the greatest trust. That's what people said. This research was done professionally. However, as far as abroad is concerned, we also read an article a few weeks ago when the European Commission made it clear that Slovenia's recovery and resilience plans are too general, too superficial, and the value of projects is significantly above the amount available to Slovenia, i.e. 5.2 billion. We keep listening to some things, how wonderful everything is, oh and all, out of your mouth, and we should just trust them. That's not how it works. All this communication must also be argued. It's also a question of all these petitions by the Prime Minister. Okay, the fact that he supports Trump, personally, he could still accept it, but as Prime Minister of the Government, he can't just mull it over. And when this article was published, how did he deal with his political opponents again? By first discrediting them, at the level of salary, EUR 15 000, and the European Parliament should already know when to put in the right plans, which is the following year in April. And who sends some drafts that are uncreditable abroad, and then, like, we'll fix it. I mean, we're always in the middle of something. I don't know, maybe she's jealous of this MEP's salary. Then I suggest that he run for the European Parliament. I'm sure he'll be elected just to get rid of him from this country. This has been a matter of trust that has been established for several months. However, another issue that will also be addressed by this Commission of Inquiry is the issue of manipulation. To blame citizens and citizens now, that they are guilty of the state in the country, that the media are guilty of the state in the country, that various cowardly eggs are involved in anti-Korona packages. And let's just remember the PKP1, even though we confirmed it, you've forced a lot of general powers into the police. In PKP2, you removed NGOs, i.e. environmental organisations, from the process of obtaining building permits overnight. Then we fixed PKP1 twice more because you screwed up for the first time, and you couldn't do what you promised to people. And today you were talking about the number of beds. This government has doubled the number of beds for covid patients. Well, let me tell you this once, everyone in this country will understand how she doubled them. So she took the patient's beds. It's the same as taking one hungry guy's sandwich and giving it to another hungry. At the end of the day, we also have another patient and another hungry one, we have done nothing. And that's the solution, according to you. No, that's not a solution. They've been doing this a little differently abroad. In Germany, too, doctors were invited and made a so-called trekkurz during the summer because the doctor has a medical basis so that they can now face covid patients in any other wave. Because if someone is an intern or orthopaedic, it does not mean that they cannot treat the patient covid, only a few grounds of expertise are needed so that, say, these patients can be treated more mildly or moderately. But no, that wasn't possible with us. What else is the issue of credibility and trust? I have here in hand, on May 5th we got it, but on another committee we will be looking at a government procurement report. In particular, the last pages, where the Government notes something and 8th point, are interesting, be careful that the comprehensive view of the underlying facts and the sequence of events in the world, the EU and Slovenia in February and March 2020 show that Mr Marjan Sarec, as President of the 13th government, has obviously not acted conscientiously in his service. That's the government's claim. Not a finding, a claim. It states: “The most controversial decision is that the potential infected returnees from the heat station in Italy are not quarantined and that the border with Italy is not closed or medically controlled in time. This has resulted in additional serious consequences for human health and life and greater economic damage. In addition to the signs of a criminal offence under Article 258 of the Penal Code, its conduct or omission includes elements of a criminal offence under Article 177 of the Penal Code.” Now I am asking you whether in all the measures that have been taken, after all the calls that have been made by the profession, that something must be done before September 1st is equally responsible for this government. It does, and at least I expect, if your intentions are as pure as you always claim to be about justice, transparency and not know what else, so if your intentions are clean, the least I expect is self-declaration in accordance with these two articles of the Penal Code. This is what the Government found on May 5th. But on May 5th, there were, of course, some other circumstances. At that time, there was much to write, and we will forget everything, especially the Members. No, we won't forget. We'll keep setting your mirror. On May 5th, you forgot that the second wave was coming and you did absolutely nothing. And I can say that vehemently. This government has done nothing. We are still going through some points of the findings of this government. “The Government will propose to the Court of Auditors an audit of the regularity and prudence of operations for the first four months of the Office of Freight Reserves”. Okay, that's what she did. But the government has also proposed to the Court of Auditors a revision of all procedures for buying, renting and maintaining fans in all Slovenian hospitals over the last 50 years. And the first thing's already jumped to the surface. Do you know which one? Celje General Hospital. The purchase of one fan, which the UKC did not want to have, was overpaid in Cel. Don't tell me it's just a coincidence. We all know where the headmistress or former director comes from, she's in your government, you can say with your finger, there's this gentleman in your government, and this lady has been in the previous government of this party, which you now point to. But that doesn't mean you're a ponzipillatic hand-washer and the case is solved. But I'm asking you a serious question, and I'm also asking the government publicly, today, this moment. The government will provide €1 million in the 2020 budget for the development and start-up of fans in Slovenia. I want to know where it was in the balance, because there's no way you're gonna find it in there. Next, the government will provide €1 million in the 2020 budget for the production of FFP2 and FFP3 protective masks. Doesn't look like it in the balance sheet either. And in view of all the procedures that we have dealt with at interpretation and the refusal of Tosama to establish its own production of masks, I strongly doubt that this has indeed happened. So I ask in public: Where does this show in the balance is it that the calls were issued, or has it just been given to anyone, in a beautiful way, as we have already been used to? Because it's in the balance sheet, which is so impractical that these two items can't be noticed in there. Or was this whole office designed just to make the likes uncreditable? But this is a government document. This is a government document, and someone has to stand by what's written, and we're not some banana republic. Or maybe we are. Also purchasing protective equipment – how many calls have already failed to purchase protective and medical equipment? Two calls, yes, and now a third is likely, because you won't find your middleman or now you can't because you're so much under the radar. Two calls for the purchase of protective equipment, but those needed by healthcare professionals, not paper masks, not hygiene masks, are health workers. It's not gonna go that easy. And also all those foster care units that you bought with such a pump as Golfe in the spring, and then all summer long they were useless and unused, they are now being saved. But it saves them again with some extra money and again through some middleman. In short, things are getting more complicated and more interesting. And they show, in fact, that there is chaos and strife in this government, and no one understands how to address specific issues. Beds are taken to patients to be given to patients. The masks can be removed on the face and put on again. And if crack gets tanked with no mask, it's okay because he's tired because he works 25 hours a day, but he gets up an hour early. They get ministers when they're nailing their nails on a manicure, or I don't know what, at least that's what it looks like out there, and you should be home in isolation. They put another minister under the lights and film him in the promotion of the National Gallery. Yeah, well, I mean, you look like you're not serious yourself. Indeed, it is not the purpose of this commission of inquiry to discredit anyone, but just setting up a mirror to admit, yes, we made a mistake, or to have the prime minister come on television, and say, listen, dear citizens and citizens, okay, we have already tried everything that has been tried, there are no effects, or we can try this even more; please, experience from abroad shows us that it has worked somewhere else; I ask you, together, that we squeeze the last power and resist this virus. I'm sure everyone would agree. No, the Prime Minister has to tweet, this is all the fault of the protestors, those who throw masks on the floor, bikers, mushrooms, probably now because I don't know if you're walking on mushrooms, you'll see how much mask there is on the ground in the woods. These are problems for this government that people are skeptical. Then why are they skeptical? Because you're inconsistent in communication. Because you can't make it clear once, that's what we want from people, and that's why. Respectful, reasoned, but not patronizing and humiliating, as we have been used to. Enjoy as long as you can, because tomorrow everything will be different, and your government speaker Milan Kučan, but years ago, years ago. Dear colleagues and colleagues, how much you are interested in this investigative committee, in fact, your meeting here also shows. When you set up yours, we were fucking sitting here trying to make a lot of suggestions, suggest, pre-debate. Yeah, you've already figured it out, haven't you? If the government’s superficial view shows that someone is criminally responsible, a superficial view shows that someone is criminally responsible for what he will only show a slightly more detailed view. Aren't you, a colleague who will lead one of these two committees? I'll wait for you to tell me what else to say, and I'll say a lot more later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Igor Peček has the word to prepare Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Before starting the debate, I would have a procedural proposal, Mr Vice-President. Please remind your colleague on my side that they are not soufflers in the theatre and do not disturb your colleagues during the debate and do not ask questions. Both had a chance to discuss it, Mrs Jeraj will still have it, and I ask that we stick to the rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Really, I agree with your procedural proposal. No one should bother the speaker with his explanation. I hope we take that into account. Here you go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u204	Thank you very much again, Mr. Vice President. To begin with, I would like to point out two facts in the introduction. First of all, there is no doubt that we are facing one of the worst crises, the health crises of modern times, which will result in great economic and economic damage. Secondly, we are living in an age of information society where information is crucial. They're very quickly accessible, practically at every turn. Here I would like to stress once again that we need to distinguish between data and information, because information is treated differently than data. In my opinion, this second fact, the true transmission of information, at a time when we are dealing with such a severe epidemic, should be used differently. In a different sense, it is in our best interests and in our best interests to resolve the situation, but unfortunately that is not what we are doing, or unfortunately that is not what this government is doing. Instead of showing respect and gratitude to our people, who, according to my best judgement, follow government and self-protection measures, show them that either the President of the Government or anyone else as the representative of the Government will clearly and loudly say that an epidemic will be declared in the country, and at the same time tell them how to act in the future, what is good and what is not. However, the transmission of this latest information more, at least reminds me more of the fact that we are playing a half-hour epidemic after the press conference on Twitter. I've been asking a few questions about this. Is this a style that I don't understand, whether it's a theater, that whoever sent this information an hour earlier didn't know it, or just made a decision after the current feeling. I'm afraid I can't find the answer. However, this is certainly not a communication that people would know how to do, what people would deserve, when in these difficult times when Slovenians are facing, we face a truly envious economic situation, many are losing jobs, and the government has stopped public and economic life again with the action. We ask people to respect everything they are asked to do, whether it be political decisions or professional decisions, but people are conscious. And while our citizens and citizens are working hard and respecting these measures, among other things, we are all working together, we are cooperative, we respect only protective measures and government decisions, which sometimes, hand to heart, are not fully sound, the ruling party communicates with them in a public, contradictory and sometimes under-appreciative way. I believe that we all remember the unfortunate sentence, I will repeat what my colleague Pavšič has already said, it was the speaker of Mr Kacin, when he snoged us all to enjoy ourselves until we can, when he practically talked us down and begged us before going to Croatia, and he was later caught on his weekend in Krk. Clearly, he took advantage of what he said and was able to enjoy it. We are all well aware of the news from the end of last week when the media reported two new violations of the government decree, both by the minister and the NIJZ Director. I wonder where you are from or whether you are aware that you are asking all Slovenian citizens to respect their obligations in a consistent manner and that you are violating them. And is it really enough that the members of the Slovenian government are subject to sufficient justification and recognition of the error. Here I am thinking mainly of the theatrical repentance of Minister Kustec, but for all others the consequences of fines and sanctions. And if I sum it up. I can't help but find out that the government's burned down at the public relations test. To find out this fact, you certainly don't need to be an expert in this field, even though they have taught me and I have taught myself my whole life that the way of communication is the one who plays a decisive role in wanting to achieve a goal. What is more, the government has also burned down in the preparation of the country for this second wave of the epidemic, both in its communication itself and in its under-appreciative attitude towards citizens, journalists and the various forests of government representatives, are also a reflection of the situation we are currently in. I am afraid that many of the mistakes that the government has made during the conflict with covid viruses will be revealed in this investigative commission, but I hope that we can also show by means of this investigative commission how we should really act in a certain situation. I'd like to remind you of just one example. In fact, when the Sharčev government closed the border with Italy and later all the other borders, including Croatia, and how this caused the inhabitants of the border areas at that time. How Janšev's government left the border with Croatia open and practically the entire season for reasons that I cannot understand this summer. If the closure of the border with Italy by Slovenia in the first wave of the pandemic was a major trauma, we must think differently today. We can ask ourselves what the closure of the border would actually mean today. If I touch further on the measures, the five CAPs, we have been relying on good practices from abroad, which is fine. We have supported them ourselves, and I have said many times myself that there are many good things in these measures. Virtually all European countries have acted more or less after the same hoof, taking similar measures. But one fact is not to be overlooked, and that is a fact that the government will never recognise, but in the course of the measures we were significantly slower than abroad. We were lagging behind and implementation was even worse in terms of speed. I will not repeat the CAP2, even perhaps because of the government's innovative deviations, it still does not work, but I would expect at least a message, especially to the economy, why the CAP2 does not work. Why we have accepted 25,000 loans to date and some more than 30 million have been granted from the guarantee scheme. As far as non-employment is concerned, what has been mentioned in one of the discussions. Unfortunately, analysts estimate that by the end of this year, there will be at least 5,000 jobs at risk in the next two months. There would probably be more if it weren't for the PKPs, probably. However, we must face the fact that in the next two months it is very likely that there will be 5,000 people on the road or in the office today. If I'm a little ironic and I don't want to be completely ironic, maybe I'll say, maybe with a little irony, maybe we could have spring pictures today. Why? Despite the Government's August assurances that it has taught us much about the epidemic in spring, it is unfortunate that this is not the case. Summer, no matter what happened in the summer, we failed to prepare a record number of infections. I believe that it is essential and necessary to be cooperative in life, especially today, so to the best of my ability to act responsibly, to act responsibly and to respect government decisions and professional recommendations. This does not mean that we will not be alerted to certain things as opposition, to things that have gone and may go wrong in the future. The purpose of the parliamentary inquiry, as I understand it, is to find out what went wrong, what needs to be changed, including the legal basis that must be the basis for change, so that this story, not to say a fiasco, will never happen again in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u205	Thank you very much. And as the last of those reported, he has the word Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u206	Thank you so much for saying that. First, a few comments on what has been said at this time. So that they urgently need a new infection clinic, we know for quite some time, even in the Sharchev government, but nothing happened at that time, documentation is now being prepared and a new infection clinic will also be built in Ljubljana and Maribor. Many more mistakes have been made that have led to a poor state of health in our public health. Let me remind you that on May 17th last year, Health Minister Aleš Šabeder signed an agreement on a document on professional competence, and with September 1st, this came into force and we took quite a few medium-sized sisters to do what they did 10, 20, 30 years ago. This has led many of these sisters to leave, to go to Austria and work elsewhere, and to do more after this action. And there's been a whole bunch of mistakes in the past. This was the result of the amendment of the Health Activity Act, Article 38, during the time of Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc. We opposed it. You accepted it. We've intertwined her twice for such matters. If you remember, it has also sharpened the measures for doctors concessionaires, who are now invited to help and to work. Let me remind you that our colleague has branded these doctors as pets and those doing private work, even though they have all the licenses and they've all done everything they need to have the title to be doctors. Remember, spring, after the spring wave, we were here discussing the graves or the graves of those who were to be written off. You supported this by the opposition parties, and then you expect the doctors to respond and come to help. Why not just try them again with the war profiteers and so on? Some of you said we'd investigate ourselves in the investigation. We did not, because we in our investigator have given to investigate the period since 1 February, when, let's say, the case has started somewhere and measures have begun to prevent an epidemic or how we will deal with it. And you do this selectively and set yourself for the 13th of March border date, when the Janša government took place. So, you're going to investigate our government, and we're going to investigate both of us, because we're confident that everything was not perfect either in the first, so in your government, not in ours. And we'll find out what went wrong. Because if anything went wrong and someone took advantage of it, they have to answer for it. My colleague Nick Prebil said we have police action, curfew. We have a forbidden movement at night cool with the Infectious Diseases Act, not a curfew, but a limited movement. Because curfew is something else, you know. The curfew is something else, and certain powers are then extended to police officers and so on. So let's be exact when we talk. You speak as if you do not live on earth in Europe, where all countries face the same problems as we do. I don't know if you think all countries have as incompetent governments as this one. Whether other governments have started to turn around, I would say, colleague Jerco, whether they are taking police action, or they are breaking democracy because they are taking a limited movement, some not only at night, but already this afternoon. A colleague of Jerca's was watching the reports yesterday, and she reminded us that in Spain, the army is helping to find contacts. If we were to propose something like this here, we'd be back to working the police state and the military state. You don't vote for 37.A., where the military would do what it was set up to do, protect the border. Now I'm supposed to be working. I don't know what's going on. I wonder if [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u207	Madam Member, I apologize for interfering with my word. I do call on colleagues and colleagues on the left to respect the third paragraph of Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure, which stipulates that no one interferes with the speech. I hope you'll take that into account. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u208	Thank you. Then you're telling us we're wrong about communication. As long as your president, a colleague from LMŠ, former President Marjan Sarec is more on television than the current prime minister, it is probably difficult to reach people with messages and, of course, there are other routes to be used. I'll also tell you why I can make that assessment. The media should be informed, informed, and so forth, and many times they do not. We do not have to influence private media, but we can influence public RTV, which has written what it has to do in the law under which it is established. And it breaks every day, so we're reading it. I'm not saying that all the journalists on all the segments and on the radio and on TV, but we've seen some of these things. The one that bothers you about sending news on Twitter - our president has 46 thousand followers on Twitter. So when he publishes something, the news wraps up very quickly. I don't know why that would be a problem, because we weren't 30 years ago when we didn't have phones when we didn't have computers and so on. We've made some progress at this time, if you've noticed, obviously some of them haven't. My colleague Pavšič noted that we have prepared some bad text, how we will recover, for the European Commission. Let me just say that the Regional Policy Adviser at the Permanent Representation of the RS to the EU in Brussels is Mrs Hermina Golob, the former partner of your unconstitutional mandate-holder Jožet P. Damjan, and this is probably just a coincidence, but let everyone think what they want. My friend Pavšič also said that those who did not even admit mistakes were wrong. He listed Minister Logar, Minister of Cortnik. They all apologized to you and also told you why it happened. While your colleague Möderndorfer, who walked here without a mask for weeks and laughed at us all, even you, never warned him, you never responded. Your President, too, Marjan Sarec should be, and he should be in self-insulated, because he had contact, none of these two had contact, but they were on routine control, even without a mask walking around when he should be in isolation. Now, I don't know, we can go ahead with what's a bigger sin, but the fact is, without the mask, he took part in protests and so on. A colleague of Fajon's and SD's supported the fact that children in school are free of masks. Look, all these things, including the mistakes you've listed, don't help people to respect these things. But once again, a colleague of Violet and Levi who threw masks down, a colleague of Jani, President of the Social Democrats of Tanya, Marjan Sarec, they never apologized. You really never apologized. Because they didn't do it by accident, once and by mistake, because they were tired, but because it was an agenda, because you have to overthrow the government, and because you don't care if people are sick and even if everything is wrong, it's just that this government is going to have a black dot. If your intentions were to be as pure and honest as you say – they are ours, we will therefore examine both governments. I do not believe that anything has happened during the purchases for the time of Minister Restoration, and we will find that out because it is impossible that everything would be as it should be. But why did it happen, look, you can't just blame this government that came in on March 13th, but you have to blame the empty warehouses that we bought equipment in chaos that didn't have to if we bought it two months earlier. The first wave and the second wave are hard to put aside. Then, once again, I would like to remind you, we watched the coffins that we were driving around Bergamom, we were much more scared all of us, we heard every day that doctors had no equipment, they didn't have masks, we couldn't buy masks, there was no disinfection, there was no stuff. You must have forgotten, but that's what happened. And we were expecting a second wave or we knew that there would be a second wave, except maybe a colleague of Lydia who once tweeted if we were psychics. Anyway, we were expecting another wave. And what has the government done all this time when you say she hasn't done anything? On 23 July, the government adopted a national plan for protection and rescue in the event of an epidemic or pandemic of infectious diseases, version two. This was a complement to that first national plan, which was adopted at the time of the Cerara government in 2018 and which proved to be a solid foundation in March, but insufficient, some things had to be complemented. In addition, the Department of Protection and Rescue, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Health, the National Institute for Public Health, the other ministries and government services and the state plan were amended and supplemented on the basis of the experience gained by the Republic of Slovenia during the covid-19 March/May 2020 epidemic. So if so many organs of various institutions cooperated, you probably can't say they didn't do anything. As soon as things got normal, they started drawing up a state plan. And this state plan was adopted. Here I have it, if you were so worried, you would have it, too, which contains everything, how it is used, what someone has to do, when something is activated, how it is financed, operational cooperation, management and management, in short, what is needed in the epidemic then to do. But you won't believe it, it was posted on a government website. The government accepted it on Thursday at the meeting. Do you think there was anything in the papers about this and the reports? You know what happened? The next day was Friday, 24th, and Work, 24 hours and RTV were watching the protests until the minute exactly what happened, because it was exactly Friday, 14th protest, and it was very important that we monitored after minutes, but we did not monitor what was waiting for us and what we will do. That's why you don't even know that the state plan was adopted, because you've all said so far that the government hasn't done anything at this time. However, the measures for the second wave were presented in October. In early October, our President, the Prime Minister, was at a press conference where he presented how we will deal with the second wave of the epidemic. He said that the government had adopted from what followed, a plan of action for the second wave, where we could hear it, and I suppose you also heard that we were in the green zone over the summer, but then we had orange and red, in the orange package three sets of measures, then in the red again three. And we did well on that plan the government made. You can't say she didn't do anything. They acted on these measures and prepared them, made protocols for all these levels; first the orange state, the red protocol, and so on, trained the staff, made transfers and prepared and so on. At that time, the Prime Minister said - I don't know whether you were watching this or not, this press conference, but I think that it was very important at the time and it was also a lot of people watching, because it probably doesn't come to the press conference every day – at what stage we're going to be, and he said how we're going to follow the stages when we get to the first orange measure, to the other measures from the orange phase, and so on, roughly whether in one week or in 14 days, this will be measured by the number of infected per 100,000 inhabitants over 140, and so on, we'll have to take the measures that we've taken in the spring and also these are divided into measures from the sweetest to the sharpest. All this was said at the time. In one normal country, it would be on TV every day. I'm not gonna say it's not, because every time the first news is covid and what's going on, how many of us are infected, but a whole bunch of things were said at the time. And since then, we've been sticking to this plan that was made. So we're not without a plan. But we were without a plan on 13 March, and that's what we were. But then there were no stages, no stages, because you couldn't prepare it, because no one would tell you. But we could get the equipment and the things that other countries did back then. Now we just had a little more time and we could get ready for these things. So I think it's a little too much to say that nothing's done, that everyone's sunbathing over the summer and so on, but not working. A whole bunch of groups worked, a whole bunch of help in the nursing homes. Why do we now have fewer, say, infected people in our homes, or better care for them, and even fewer, mortality? Probably because the government hasn't done anything, or is it because we've got good first-wave experience now in the second wave and we've sent these groups to help out in the nursing homes, doctors and teams? It's all protocol, it's not like it fell out of the sky, that someone's remembered now, and now we're going to solve it this way. All of this had to be done, and so there was a lot of communication between the ministries, between the health ministry, between the Ministry of Labour and so on and everything else is happening. Are you hearing today that there is no equipment? Are your doctors calling you today that they don't have any protective robes like we did in March? But we got a call from Marc, remember, we talked about it at the meetings. Are we listening today to the fact that there's no way to buy an infection? Are we hearing that it's not a mask? People sewed masks on at the time, masks full of goods, people wash them, and they don't do any drama. 85% or 90% of people, I think, have no problem with the measures and what the Government determines and stick to it. We're a little less involved in the country, so we had to take a little more stringent measures, but I, what I'm meeting people and what I'm talking about, most of the time, they're holding on and they understand that a little bit of the devil has taken a joke. At one of these press conferences, the President of the Government also said that we would all be tested together. He said on 6 March: "On whether the measures from the orange phase take or have effects, significantly more than the Government now decides by each individual." I don't know if it's scary or it's inappropriate communication, it's smooching or it's not knowing what you're talking about. He also said: “We had an irresponsible minority who joked about covid-19 disease. Now the devil has taken away the joke. We have before us a time when we as a society will weigh whether we are capable of acting responsibly in a soft way to stop the virus, or whether we will be forced into measures that ultimately have an economic and social price, which no one wants.” That's 27 days from today. Now let's decide whether we did what we did or didn't do. Now it's just a conclusion. I think I've told you everything. My friend Lenart was talking about what Minister Klampfer said on March 6th, but I don't know what was going on. This investigation will not be investigated because you gave the date 13 March, although you wrote in that you want to identify unprofessional or unconscionable work or any suspension of the duty of public function holders. We estimate that the duty was abandoned because the warehouse was not filled when it was due, but will not be investigated by this commission. This will be investigated by the commission I run, because February 1st is the date from which we will continue to investigate. But in the end, it sucks to find out whether or not to deal too much with every letter and with every mask that someone didn't have three minutes on his face if we have victims and I don't know what. Some of you said we had fans we hadn't used all summer. Thank God we didn't. Thank God people were healthy. Now we're gonna need them, and now we're gonna need them. But we all have to take this a little bit more seriously together and just forget for a few moments that the government you don't like is in power. We're all in the same boat here. Infections spread and do not collect whether someone from the LMSH or someone from the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Replica, Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Yeah, buddy, you guys, I don't know who you're selling pumpkins to, but no one believes in your pumpkins anymore. Now, yeah, I was talking about police action and curfew. You keep saying like your police minister, Mr. Hoys, that this is not a curfew. You've got me all wrong here. The curfew in its own theoretical basis, but go look at the Internet, is exactly what we have today. to limit the movement of the population from a certain hour to a certain hour and thus limit the constitutional right to freedom of movement, as constitutional lawyers warn you that this is unconstitutional. Because it is only one and the only basis in the constitution that limits the right to freedom of movement for citizens, and this is the proclamation of class conditions or the state of war. This is not what your government has done, and this is a measure that we are looking at as if it were unconstitutional. That's the first thing. So please don't say it's not a curfew, you can call it a Keck's action if you want, but it's a curfew. The second thing you're saying is that our party's president, Marjan Sarec, is more on television than Mr. Janez Janša. Yeah, look, because Mr. Janez Janša doesn't want to be on TV. He puts this responsibility on others because he speaks Kacin enough nonsense in his name and there he fights with the Minister of Health, it's your fault, it's your fault, it's your fault. You know how it goes. Where is the health minister in the health crisis? You took him away, somewhere down there. So, please, really, don't be a fool because nobody believes you anymore. In addition, I have forgotten this, your President's appearance, you know, I think that President Janez Janša is the president of your party, the only president who has this weekly reception on his own television, because he is also the only president of the government and the president of the parties in this National Assembly, who has his own television, not to sound his truths and half-truths and non-truths and I don't know, from 30 years ago his frustration. I'm gonna stop here so I don't get too sharp again.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u211	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which the representative of the proposalr Robert Pavšič gets the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u212	Thank you again, chairman. Let's do it nice. We're already used to the fact that what just comes out of the hand shakes the facts and expects us to all just fall into this space from the moon and know nothing. But I have to agree on one thing. The infection clinic has been a problem for several years now, but if you were so damn sure of what's going to happen today, then you would have come before this assembly and said, let's adopt a special law to start building an infectious clinic tomorrow, financially supported it, I'm sure there's no MP in here who wouldn't raise his hand here and vote for it. You've already declared yourself as those who know everything, you can do anything, you're the only ones saved, but all the rest of us went to the exam. No, my dear, on the eve of control of this epidemic, your government is solely concerned. On May 17th, professional competences for nurses who did what they were not supposed to do, and for which they were criminally responsible, you are now taking out and accusing both the trade union and the minister. It's the least impolite. And I'll tell you something else. On the committee, these powers have been rectified and extended, so that those who have this experience can do everything they have done so far. And it is simply called lying or misleading, but now you decide to choose your own term. And you keep saying there's been a whole bunch of mistakes like this. A whole bunch of mistakes. Of course, it's a generalization. You listed one mistake and then there was a whole bunch of them. In the meantime, you plug in the concessionaires because they don't want to join the public network. What I tell you is that concessionaires are part of a public network, they are not private, they are part of a public network, they are part of a public health network. So there's another generalization and I don't know what to tell you. We continue with the homes of older citizens. This is being discussed on a committee with these so-called triad leaves and a lot has been learned and spoken. And you just said, now listen well, you said that in the homes of older citizens there is less mortality. This means that in the previous crisis you really smoothed out, but you didn't do what you were supposed to do, and the mortality was too great. Investigative commission, yours, you will deal with both governments. Come on, please! Let's do it in a row. You will talk about some political and investigative hygiene. You will investigate yourself, you will personally investigate yourself, because you too are involved, personally, in the procedures of this acquisition. Let's just remember, you personally stormed for several companies, and for one you even told what it's called, for one company you specifically named. Now, as president of this committee, you will find that what you have done has been the best thing. I wonder if this lobbyist contact was reported by the KPK when it was done. Because the call to Zakrajskok, which you have admitted that someone has sent him an offer, is a lobbyist contact for me, whether or not the deal has been realized. And that's gonna have to be explained. What was wrong with the procurement process, we have actually shown and proved it already at the interpolation. You voted us over, and like my colleague said, this vote didn't make someone innocent all of a sudden, but the story goes on elsewhere where they have to - in investigative bodies. It's a curfew. But you call it soap or a zipper, it totally doesn't matter, but people can't go out. And they respect this, although legally speaking, legally and formally it is very likely that the measure is illegal. But people respect him, that's not the problem. You'd just come in and say, look, we're asking you not to go out after nine o'clock and that's why. No, but, but, if you go out after nine o'clock, you'll be fined. But it's just a way of communicating. Of course, all governments in Europe are dealing with higher numbers of infections. Is that why all the other governments are incompetent? Far from it. Other governments have taken care of health systems. Germany has no problems with the health system. Who reports that we have a broken system in our necks, so that we can get into the sky with health care and health care, let us help, let us jump to help. And here the government is responsible and, I'm sorry to say, incompetent. She folded, completely folded. And once again, it is good that we have such a health system, a public health system that can also handle these exponential and enormous infections and take care of people. That's what I believe. However, I do not believe that this policy, the current, leading policy, has helped him in any way. And then cry about how the Prime Minister is less on TV than our President, Marjan Sarec. Yeah, it's the media's fault, isn't it? The law states, you referred to the law, yes, the law says that RTV only has to thank your leader, because otherwise, if any criticism is shown, fire is back in the roof. But that your events do not show your documents or government documents and conclusions on television, you do have your professional services and the Government for Communication and even a series of pear counselors. Then you seem to be overpaying people who are completely incompetent. The question of the profession is how to get some information away from the source to the sink or to what information is intended for it. That's the profession. But with us, a pianist can be anyone who can write two words, even if he forgets to put the comma in the middle when necessary. You told the European Commission about the plan, Pavšič said. No, Pavšič said not, the European Commission said that the European Commission said that this announced plan was too general, too superficial and that it was significantly beyond financial capacity. And an apology is enough for all these violations. Remember Simone Kustec, Anžet Logar, Boštjana Cortnik, Milan Krek, not to forget the entire government that paraded around Kolpa down, and everyone says, sorry, everything is fine. No, the problem is Marjan Sarec, because without a mask, he was on TV when he was tested. And I tell you that you have the wrong information, Madam Member, he has had no contact with the infected person, he has had no contact with the infected person, he has taken a preventive test for making peace with all the people he has been in contact with. Since we have carefully recorded our contacts, including the contacts of Members, at all the meetings, and have forwarded all this information to the National Institute for Public Health, which has ordered several measures, we have respected them, and we have remained in self-initiative isolation in order to be responsible to the people we live with and work with. What you're doing is just looking for excuses for eccentric violations, eccentric violations, man goes because he suspects he has an infection with the virus, a test, and then he gives himself a mask up and says, because it's consistent with the rules that I'm going to the beauty salon. When I took the test, they told me to stay home. They probably told him the same thing because the protocols are the same everywhere. But no, he decided to violate the health protocol and the government's actions, for which he raised his hand or was silent. Because more or less, in my opinion, all these decisions are taken at your written sessions by not voting. Because maybe people don't know that in government, if you don't vote, it means you're in favour, not like in Parliament. So, Your Honor, you have the wrong information. And more times when you repeat it, you'll be more embarrassed. We have carried out all these protective and preventive measures on our own without this being necessary. And that's the responsibility. And over and over again these empty warehouses. You caused this chaos. You have officially accepted that all these purchases will now be carried out by the Department of Trade Reserves, until then they have done so themselves. You cut off these purchase routes and made it impossible to purchase protective equipment, and then you were wondering, yes, and now the system is not working. Of course, the system didn't work because you took it. That's why it didn't work. And it's caused chaos, but you've used it for your own purposes, as we've been wanting to use it lately. Among other things, you yourself, when you intervened with the then director Zakraszko to see if this company was okay. And it's not a question of a company, it's a lobbyist contact, a respected lady, it's a lobbyist contact, you've done business with a particular company. And if you haven't reported this to KPK, I hope they can hear me now, you're in violation. So much for responsibility. The government didn't do anything. Okay, that's true, but here I am, I admit, a little generalized the whole thing. Yeah, she worked a lot. But all that I wouldn't really need, except what I should. Here we go again. Instead of preparing the health system for the second wave of covida, she recruited, tried to push various articles into antikron packages, intervened in the country's democratic order, including these antikron packages, abolishing the status of environmentalists – in order to, I don't know, build an infectious clinic or something among the crowns; surely - and deal with various purchases of protective and medical equipment. And when you say there was no plan on March 13th, you came up with that information. There was a 2016 plan which also envisaged the response of all security systems in this country at the time of the outbreak. It was not concrete on a concrete case, but I believe that this country is not so stupid, and our experts are not actually so forgotten that we would not have a prepared plan in such cases, even because they had threatened us before. Let's just remember the avian influenza, the swine flu. It was precisely because of these two matters that the ZBR had some protective equipment in stock, not because they were preparing for covid. This one surprised the whole world. He surprised everyone even in the second wave, even though you predicted it. In the second wave you were surprised, just as every year you were surprised by the snow of our road service. I know you don't. So, dear colleague, please give a little more specific mention of all these matters next time. And the commission you will run will also investigate you personally. And in the end, you will find that your actions were perfectly fine. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u213	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else would like to discuss it? I take it it's an interest. If he would also like to discuss the proposaler's representative, Robert Pavšč, please also apply by pressing the microphone button. He gets the last word. I'm asking you to sign up. We've got eight registered. Everyone gets five minutes. The first one gets the word "magic." Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Today we have heard quite a lot about what happened during the summer holidays, but I must point out what the State Secretary on the Health Committee said today, Mrs Tina Bregant, who said: "This virus has caught us off guard." Here I ask myself, yes, at the time of the first wave it was still, of course, I will say, acceptable, but today we've been talking about the second wave and how you did everything, you have prepared, but today we have hundreds of times more infections than in the first wave. That's worrying. So, how super ready are we? There's a really big question to be asked here. Although I expected, perhaps I would just say I did not expect what I would require to be accurately communicated by the Government, but not by the government's spokesman, Mr Kacin, and on the other hand by ministers. It's actually very bad, it just works out, and even people can't identify with it. The measures taken should also last for at least a few days, not change from night to night. People are also kind of confused, asking, calling for what to do, whether we can do it or not. Actually, there are some problems. There was also talk about providing hospital beds. Yeah, you provide hospital beds by taking those beds from a regular patient, and that's not right either. UKC Ljubljana has even published an invitation to tender to provide new 20 beds, but look at the fraction, again in September, today is October. When will these beds be provided? End of summer. The Epidemiological Section has clearly predicted and proposed measures to the government, but look at it again, the government has taken these measures with a delay, and the consequences are today - what? Full hospitals, tired and exhausted personnel calling for help, chaos in communication, in the implementation of measures or in the forecasting of measures. On the other hand, we have a disregard for our own actions, which are taken by ministers themselves, do not wear masks, do not wear masks properly, do not take into account social distances. And we are all to blame, but only those who should be guilty do not want to accept responsibility. And that's really not right, and that can't be proud of us. And I really appeal to the government to look into the mirror, not a problem to admit mistakes, of course, absolutely, even we all make mistakes, we all make mistakes, but we have to admit mistakes and people will forgive them. As colleague Pavšič said a few times today, yes, if the President of the Government were to come before people, invite them, do this and that, today the situation is really like, worryingly, believe me, all people understand things, understand measures and would really follow all this. But now that we're looking at it, we're countermeasures, but we're where we are. They're confused, dissatisfied, and everything that's going on is unheard of. Government, get real, work so we can get out of this crisis that we're in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u216	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Dear Members, once again a nice greeting! In an ideal world, in fact, the only way to find responsibility for the epidemic would be to deal with the epidemic. In fact, real politics does not have the right to take advantage of the fact that, at a time when we do not yet manage the epidemic, when people are confused, because they no longer know who to believe, because officials have lost much of their credibility, they would not use every minute to argue with each other. It's bad for the country. Of course, even in an ideal country, the ruling would not take advantage of one of the few opportunities we have as the opposition to oversee the ruling, these are investigative commissions, they would not use this instrument to block the opposition in some way. It is clear to me that the two Commissions of Inquiry will now be investigating a similar matter so that this should be unacceptable in an ideal world. But this is not the situation because the opposition wanted it, and you just need to know that. I also now appeal to ask nicely, if possible, but I do not believe that it is possible, but it would be ideal if we could draw the line today and say, from now until the moment we do not control the epidemic, until the moment that people are not put at risk, we will not deal with any other thing than with some common effort to help people in some way, especially the country and all those where we can help. What is now happening, and here I have to agree with the opinions both in the middle and on the left of this hall, but there is something else. In fact, there is no serious effort to prepare to fight the outbreak wave number two. What we can see in the opposition is only a serious effort to speed up the country by making an excuse to fight the epidemic into an autocraticly-led state. And something else that I am equally or even more concerned about, and I have already warned about this when we talked about the Ombudsman's report, what to do to prevent an ever-increasing stigmatization of people who do not take advantage of it. The last time you remember, Mr President, last week, I was shocked by the hatred that has been said about the people who live behind us, that is, the Roma. What hatred was there, what a desire for stigmatization. However, this should not be the case in Slovenia. What harsh words were spoken of people who were refugees. And we Slovenians have already been refugees in our history. And what is now critical, with what kind of hatred is spoken of as people who think differently from rulers. What these people are getting through the media instruments they have at their disposal. This is what should not happen at the time of controlling the epidemic. And that's what basically escapes people, escapes the opposition. That is why you must, honourable Members, two are present here, and a member of the coalition who listens to us, so very unbelievably your calls, let us fight together, sound so unbelievably. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, I agree, if we say from this point on, today, from now on we will fight together only against the epidemic, we will combine all the knowledge, and we will find that we are still too few – three Members are actually present from the coalition, I apologize. We will fight together and, on the other hand, we will not change the country the way only one party wants it. I tell you that you have the full support on the left side and on the part of the central side of this House. But are you able to do this and say, yes, indeed, the epidemic is so bad that we have to defeat it for the good of our people; and that is all we are going to do and not break the democratic foundations of this country? Are you even capable? Of course, I'm talking about this without having any authority from any of the opposition parties or anyone else, but I believe because I know these people enough to be ready for this conversation. Let's go together. But together, as we have done several times in history, act together against this grave danger to our people. But this, my respects and respects, I have not been able to see from the debate today, so I am concerned. I have to tell you, I feel uncomfortable that we are setting up another investigative commission on something that we should discuss at a time when we will be overcoming the epidemic. That's why I'm calling you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Boris Doblekar gets the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. Yeah, get serious! That's what the Prime Minister has already told you, and apparently he won't take it. Mr. Jewn spoke as they spoke, how we spoke across the Roma, and I don't know what. There you have the Mayor of Rakovec in Kranj, and take a look at what he's saying through the Albanians. Look, yeah. You're talking about us, and you've got yours. In short, I've been listening to this debate all afternoon. I didn't even mean to answer it. We're wasting time to set up another investigation committee to beat up empty straws, to occupy some positions, to get paid a little extra, and to consider something that's not at all. Witch hunt, egg hair hunt, stuff like that. Medical staff, however, work hard on all the weights and deal with a lot of patients in hospitals. And you're talking about the first wave and what wasn't there, and the second wave you're throwing about, what someone said, what someone didn't do, I don't know where you got the energy and the time. [[…]] You had a government, you had a government, you had an LMŠ, SD, Levits, SAB, but you had stopped ruling because you were scared because you were fighting each other, now you're looking for some sympathy and you're taking advantage of this crisis period to essentially frame the government, working night and day, and working hard, and together with experts, you're taking measures for the benefit of Slovenian life. It's not just us, it's all over Europe. The measures are, however, as proposed by the profession, then agreed together and the measure taken. And if the meeting is tonight at seven, eight, nine, ten evenings, it seems to me that the President of the Government will tell the public on television, including all the journalists, what measures the Government has taken. If they weren't there, you'd have a problem. Why didn't you find out in time? European Ambassador Tanja Fajon, if you continue to throw all your lives in the afternoon, I will also be, you have challenged me, Tanja Fajon, a European Member, a respected European Member, the President of the Social Democrats, and the images with calls do not wear masks and so on. Isn't that sad? Isn't that sad? It's a disaster. Ex-president of the government at the co-vid test, and then he's waiting for tests and in the middle of no mask around. Look, you're talking about these, and we can talk about those. It should also be borne in mind that all ministers, the President of the Government, the medical profession, health workers, the police, firefighters, civil protection all work, everyone works, they work hard at all costs, and everyone can make some mistakes. Just as anyone can do between us, among Members, he can do it. But what we're going to do is we're going to hunt each other and we're going to paint each other and we're going to walk behind him, and I don't know what we're going to do. The instructions are clear. If you all did, if it weren't for these doctors, the Potts, the doctors, I don't know what kind of doctors, there isn't, scientists who know more than all the medical professions, people, especially young people, would be following measures. And it would not be necessary to take such restrictive measures on restrictions on regions, the congregation, I don't know what. It's got to be prescribed for two meters and a half, three meters, so what else? [[…]] But all of this is because the virus doesn't stop, the infection doesn't stop, because there wasn't enough respect for association and so on. We know it's hard, people are social and so on, but that's the way it is. Let's respect, I call again, all these measures, keep your distance, disinfect your hands, use your mask. But if someone ever makes a mistake or forgets something, not right after it. Let's be people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u219	The word has Lydia Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u220	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Good evening, everyone! I wasn't going to come forward today, but when a man listens to this debate of his colleagues from SDS, he really wonders if they live in another universe or, I don't know, what else, it doesn't matter. The debate of colleague Jeraj, where she also mentioned me, is of course for clapping, bravo, you will be commended confident, the cookie will come. She was talking about me tweeting some stuff. Of course, I tweeted them in the summer when people were so afraid of the second wave when we listened to Mr. Krek and Mr. Kacin's communication, which was for, as my mother would say, for God's sake. In the summer, when your parents went to clean swimming pools for Croatia at sea, by the way, instead of doing what you should do, and this is to prepare a covid hospital and prepare for all that experts have warned you about, you did not hear them. But okay, it sucks that we're going to go to bed now. The point is that everyone else is to blame, everyone else, and the opposition is to my mother, and I don't know who else is to blame, just not those who haven't prepared for the second wave. Everyone else is guilty. And of course, the government of John Janša is not to blame. Of course not, because he tweets because he informs people. She's got 46 thousand followers, Mrs. Jeraj said. It's a great honor for him, though. But I wonder how the other million and a half people in Slovenia should be familiar with some measures that are not on Twitter, my mother doesn't even know that Twitter exists or is probably already heard, but she probably doesn't know how to use it. This is a rude communication made by the President of the Government that all of his brilliant ideas, which I don't remember, I don't even mention. He just tweets, I don't even know what else he does at work than tweet. Well, I know what else he's doing, changing people and setting up sneezes. Because that's the point. Only and exclusively replace everything and anyone who isn't in their will, who isn't in theirs and who isn't. So set the nods. You've also been talking about the fact that this is not the curfew you've set up, and the ban on passing congregations, that must be it. Even for those congregations, you will not believe that they have no disease, but they are imprisoned in their own congregation. Then find out who can. And then you hope to claim here that this is not a curfew. So what's the other one? And after 9:00, those with pets can't take their animals for a walk or not say what they need. Since someone in this country and who knows, this is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia led by Janez Janša, you will not believe a curfew. It's that simple, actually. By the way, at this point, five minutes ago, a colleague of mine who flew from Belgrade from business to Brnik couldn't go home. Because they told her at Ljubljana airport that they didn't have a taxi, although I don't understand how that was possible, but okay, and the police told her, I'm saying what she wrote to me: "My friends said at the police station, which is also my co-worker, that there is no legal basis for my coming to the airports, and my child doesn't have a driver's license yet, and my parents are abroad. How do I get home?" He must come to Maribor. What should Superman do in the summer, because someone remembered the curfew, and because someone remembered that we should be confined to congregations, including those where there is no infection at all. So find out who's got to. And the one who remembered that, of course, is nothing to blame. It's Marjan Sarec's fault and the opposition is Lidija Dijak Mirnik's because she tweeted in the summer I don't know what. Of course, the most guilty are the media, especially STA and RTV Slovenia. These two media are the most guilty. And today we even hear that the government is working 24 hours. I even believe it, because we see them tweeting 24 hours. The only problem is, they're doing the wrong thing. That's the problem. Not what we're supposed to do, but what doesn't belong in this situation at all. So, yes, be careful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u221	The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Chairman. Yes, there's quite a debate behind us today. And it's true, in fact, the covid epidemic surprised all of us, virtually no country knew what it was like to go on. This is why certain anomalies have arisen, things have not been on the market, panic has reigned, and this government has continued to deepen. So she tried to create an extraordinary situation, that people were chaotic, that she prescribed the use of things that were not on the market, and that basically created a fundamental sense of chaos, which also probably led to some kind of irregularity. Remember, the government's calls made more than a thousand bidders, most of whom were not qualified for delivery, made them feel able to supply medical and protective equipment. And this is actually the government's responsibility to create such a situation. In the SAB, we would certainly like to have a single commission of inquiry. The point is, it doesn't make sense that it's divided into two parts, but that's just the situation. If that is the case, in fact, we support always the need to investigate responsibility. However, we would, of course, like to have a Parliamentary Commission set up in line with the recommendations of the European Commission, which, in real time, would monitor consumption-related developments and thus, in fact, all of the anomaly we are now witnessing to them. What I regret, in essence, is that there has never been an evaluation of measures in the current anti-crisis measures, i.e. whether the previous measures have been meaningful and necessary. Because if mistakes have been made in the past and have not been established, then these errors will be repeated in the future. And this is essentially the biggest mistake of the current government not to carry out evaluation of the measures. I would like to illustrate, here is a graph, as we recall, when the government of Janez Janša took office, it was in fact at this time, if we remember all the reports that we witnessed, we were almost in Slovenia before the end of the world, in fact the end of the world threatened us. Look, this is the situation today, and it's much more peaceful. And what I, in fact, personally and even in fact my fellow Members, are reading is then deliberately creating panic and emergency situations, which, of course, some anomalies have only been potentising. However, I would like to read one of the essays of a Slovenian doctor who works in Austria, was sent to me in the middle of the summer, and I will actually read very clearly what she wrote, which is in fact unacceptable, that in Slovenia due to an epidemic of covid-19 people do not have access to health care, that also in Austria the virus spreads through hospitals, but that it is not tolerated to new patients and that also in Austria doctors do not have protective equipment as with us, because it was simply not on the market. However, if someone prescribes the use of equipment that is not on the market and conditions the operation of the system using equipment that is not on the market, then it is clear that it creates waiting types. And it is crucial to me that we get an answer as to whether the measures taken were necessary, effective, or whether they were made in one ipico to overload this health system. Remember, more than half of some diagnosis has not been diagnosed, especially cancer, of difficult patients. I suspect that these measures have been taken to overload and decommission this health system. In fact, I think it's a systematic system to call public health, you call it state health, and it's also right to decompose and destroy, to create such waiting types and such costs as this system cannot bear. Remember, some health checks are evaluated only with a few Euros and a protective mask and a protective suit costs 20 Euros. And when we look at these costs, we see [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u223	Okay, time's up. The word has a Mojca Boxer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Some are facts, some is their presentation, so looks. This morning, Dr. Tina Bregant said: “This virus has found us unprepared.” Dr. Tina Bregant is a doctor and the profession stays, she's been thinking about the whole world, no one's expecting the situation we're in, except maybe the Chinese themselves, I don't know. In this sentence, Dr. Tina Bregant identified herself with people, expressed compassion, empathy, and a willingness to cooperate. She said we were all surprised by this virus, all of us, all of us citizens, when it broke out. And Dr. Tina Bregant feels the one who has to help. Dr. Bojana Muršič misrepresented her words, saying that this government was surprised by the virus. This government was surprised only by Marjan Sarec, who resigned, and all the Slovenes. But it's okay if it is. Dr. Bojana Muršič is not capable of this empathy, what happens to doctors to identify themselves with people and say, he surprised us all, we're all in the same boiler. No, Dr. Bojana Muršič makes a nice turn and stabs a colleague in the back. You know that Dr. Tina Bregant didn't mean that the government of Janez Janša surprised this source. But she was surprised by the state of things, which was completely empty warehouses. Some are facts, some are appearances. Politics is a concern of public good. Today I saw in this National Assembly that politics is also politics. Lying, deceiving, lying about the manners of the Zerjinsky Academy, that was it. Once you find that the government was very democratic, that it convinced people, after 0 cases in June, that the situation should remain that way, and that we should stick to the measures, of course, what I told you earlier, you threw masks on the floor, you didn't want to wear them, you kicked children and parents not to wear masks. And what happened from that? The virus began to spread among the citizens themselves. We are now witnessing what the left-wing option has actually produced. I'm not going to say that all Members of Parliament, of course not, but you are, you know exactly who you are. Mr. Marjan Sarec, said a colleague, is more on television than our president. I think there's more to POP TV than the National Assembly. And with your sub-intellectual charcisms, you're just gonna make us grow or you're not gonna spread our day. And it has to be said that the situation was good, that people were working to get the government to work 24 hours a day. Those who have the time to read your 24 hours, as Mrs Divac says, will benefit from reading them. And the work that this government has done is impossible to measure. In all of this instigation and stumbling, instead of cooperating, of course, you turn around by saying that it is not health at all, but it is only a battle for power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u225	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u226	Thank you very much. I don't know, some people tell us we want to break public health and so on. Look, we don't have any ideas like that, and we don't do anything like that. We have always supported all that was in favour of public health, including financing, including new construction and so on. Let me just remind you what opened up at the time of our first government: pediatric clinic, oncology institute. Previously, however, we watched the years and years of annexation and so on and things got carried away so that some served well. I was saying what my colleague Kordish was saying, which he said would be concessionaires, privates, espouses that they were custodians. That was my statement, which apparently my colleague Pavšič did not understand. I know that concessionaires are part of public health, and this is crystal clear to me, because for a while I was even president of the Health Committee, and I have dealt with these issues a lot. There is an application Stay healthy, which you did not support when we discussed it, I think that at the time it was not good to say what it will bring and what it means, you were against or the whole drama was with what we will now control all people. Now those of us who have loaded the app are very easy, they meet phone numbers, we don't know any names, but open the app and tell you if you've been in contact with anyone or not. For example, you are green or green if you have been in short contact and are not dangerous. I don't know who I've been in contact with, whether it's colleagues or others who have red, that they've been in contact twice, three times, and our President Zorčič has shown that he's had three or four contacts and he's red. It means that at the time, you take more care of yourself, don't go out, it's even more careful, and it's got more of a mask upstairs and so on. The app is well-intentioned and those who put it up there, and if the opposition were to promote it, and the media would probably have a lot more people today, and everyone would first realize that they could be in contact with someone, I'll say, fateful or dangerous if you were in contact with someone. But again, I don't know who I met, they just met phone numbers. And if you've been in contact with someone for a short time, warn you with green, if you've been further away, it's red, then you're more careful and you don't walk around and you're preemptively isolated or more at home. My fellow Jew said, but we really need two committees. The question is, if, but obviously, we'll have them. But I'd like to say, but not when you're telling me here that we're going to investigate ourselves. On the committee I lead, Mr Pavšč, is Mr Bandelli, Mr Trček, it is said that it is balancedly composed of the opposition and the coalition, so that we will probably all be very persistent, you will investigate what we have done, and we, what you have done, will be just right. The State plan, mentioned by colleague Pavšič, stipulated that all purchases would be made through the Department of Freight Reserves. And that's why it happened. At the time when we took over and looked at what existed, and there was actually this state plan, which predicted that purchases would be made together through the Department of Trade Reserves, when they tested it, they found that the supply reserves would not be able to do so, but the plan was not corrected and that was why this was the basis for what we did then. A colleague from SD Bojana Muršič said that mistakes were to be made, apologized and so on. Look, you didn't apologize for what you said not to wear masks in schools. Your President, Tanja Fajon, has been on television and performing without a mask everywhere, even on hikes, and I don't know where we've been watching everything, and you haven't distanced yourself, you haven't said it was a mistake. And I guess today we all agree that it was. Likewise, you did not distance yourself in LMŠ from the fact that colleague Jani walked without a mask. Look, here you're putting Mr. Krek on the cross, who was half a minute or a minute on a gas station without a mask, your colleague Jani walked for weeks without a mask and threatened all of us, ignored and mocked, but you didn't distance yourself from it. You didn't say it was a mistake, that it wasn't right, that you didn't act, and so on. I agree with you that you have to admit mistakes, but we have to admit them to you and us, the ones who make them. And once again, it's really hard to compare the first and second waves. In the first wave of 50 patients a day, there was actually a lot, we thought at the time. And that's why we reacted the way we did. Today, when we know the virus more when we have drugs, when these people are getting drugs, when we have enough fans, when we have equipment, when we have some other capabilities, it's different. We are all a little too relaxed over the summer, so we have a situation like this, and so now we need some more stringent measures. No one's happy about it, but it's the situation. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u227	Sorry, time's up. The word is Robert Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u228	Thank you. At first, we heard a poetic outpouring about what someone was thinking and about the whole world, and it was through their thinking, that is, through some mental deductive process, that the Member found. We spoke on the committee today about the constitutional assessment of certain measures. We were talking about the collapse of the system, the failure of the government and the defeat of the government, exactly what we're talking about at this point in the agenda. Facts and appearances. Yes, you don't even know that Bojana Muršič is a master and not a doctor, a respected colleague who is now gone. But these are irrelevant details. And I saw my colleague Bojano on the board today, and your friends didn't. And it's very difficult for me to accept that someone knows what they're thinking. And you know what, we have one Slovenian proverb, very good: The word is not a horse. You know what that means? You can't take that word back, and if you give it to someone, you can take it away. And when you talk about the pediatric clinic and the oncology institute during your term of office, you will also take over all those incursions that have taken place in the construction of these two institutions in addition to cutting the tape, because we are going in a set and not selectively. Everything will have to be taken into account. It is interesting, however, that in the replica to my discussion with the investigative committee you are leading, you have not identified yourself until your intervention and have not answered any specific questions. And you know exactly why you didn't answer. But I will now tell you and expect action by the end of this week. In fact, what does the first indent of Article 3 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation say? “A Member may not participate in the committee of inquiry if he is an investigator or a witness in a case under investigation.” And you're going to be a first-stage witness. I don't know if you're gonna be an investigator. What does the second indent of Article 3 say? “If the circumstances referred to in the preceding paragraph are known when the Board of Inquiry is appointed, such a Member shall not be appointed to the Board of Inquiry. As long as such circumstances arise later or become known later, such a Member shall immediately cease to work on the Board of Inquiry and the President of the Commission of Inquiry shall immediately inform the National Assembly of the proposal to dismiss such a Member and appoint another Member of the Commission of Inquiry. Where the circumstances referred to in the preceding paragraph relate to the President of the Commission of Inquiry, the National Assembly shall inform the Vice-President of the Commission of Inquiry thereof.” Either you or your colleague Bandelli, who is the vice president or your deputy, can decide for yourself. However, I expect you to do this on your own when you disclose or confirm your active role in the process of acquiring protective equipment, because that would be the most hygienic and honest of you, just as you did in one of my other colleagues. Thank you very much, Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u229	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the basis of Article 4(2) of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, the National Assembly does not vote on the determination of the parliamentary inquiry, so I note that the National Assembly has ordered a parliamentary inquiry to determine the actual situation and possible political responsibilities of the holders of public functions in the implementation of the measures related to the covid-19 epidemic and to mitigate its consequences due to the suspicion of reckless use of public funds and the violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms for the period from 13 March 2020 to the determination of the parliamentary investigation in question and the possible modification of the applicable legislation governing the State's action to deal with the epidemic of communicable disease or its consequences. The contents of the parliamentary inquiry request are defined in the record of the request of 9 October 2020 and in the act setting out the parliamentary investigation of 9 October 2020 which you received. The parliamentary investigation is therefore determined. In this regard, I ask the Council of State to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the Commission of Inquiry in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry and to forward it as soon as possible to the Council. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 21st meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 7 p.m. and 10 minutes. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 18.52 and resumed at 19.10.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u230	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 14, 12, 13, 11, 9 and 10 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Consultative Referendum on the Adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the provision of funds for investments in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021 to 2026. We decide on the following proposal for a decision: A consultative referendum on the adoption of the proposal for a law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021 to 2026 is open. Explanation of vote, Comrade Luka Mesec on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u231	Thank you very much and very much. We will, of course, vote in favour of a consultative referendum on investment in the Slovenian Army in the next five years, amounting to €780 million, and this money will go for weapons. This is certainly not a marginal topic. On this subject, we must give a voice and a chance to devote ourselves to the people. Finally, the following must be said. First of all, the time for such procurement is exceedingly inappropriate. We live in times of coronavirus, crisis, economy is in serious trouble, people stay at home, we have quarantine, we have the first curfew after 80 years, and we talk about how we will get 780 million euros in weapons, while many in our country wonder what will happen to his job, how his children will survive, what will he bring tomorrow. In short, time is completely inappropriate. Secondly, we will vote in favour because we cannot buy an argument that there will be money for everyone. The government is going to get 10 billion from Europe, but out of these 10 billion, it has to deduct 3.5 billion loans first, then a good 3 billion payments into the budget and then realize that the remainder is actually already spent because we have huge budget deficits. However, what remains is clear from the draft national recovery and resilience plans, which shows: while the government intends to invest €780 million in weapons over the next five years, it intends to invest only €200 million in health care and €100 million in the provision of the elderly. In short, for the care of the elderly and for health care, investments are half as low as investments in the military. And finally, when we talk about safety, we need to know that there's some sort of virtual security, and there's something about security. It is apparent that security is created by the purchase of armoured and similar junk that is not useful for the protection of the country and, on the other hand, we have seriously endangered many aspects of security. The health care of citizens is at risk, and at this point many cannot be diagnosed or provided as a chronic patient. Our social security is under threat. In these times, many face severe social pressures due to the loss of jobs and so on. Last but not least, we must be aware that in the next decade we will have to invest in the avoidance of the climate crisis, which in fact threatens us significantly more than potential war. In short, these are the reasons why we will vote in favour of the consultative referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Ambassador Tina Heferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u233	Thank you, President, for your word. We are most surprised by the fact that this government, this power, fears its own people. In fact, just as the ideas of the consultation referendum were beginning to cool off, where we could hear Minister Tonin encouraging the submission of signatures for the legislative referendum, and then we have recently observed that the Government has adopted a decision prohibiting the legislative referendum for the LMŠ Group is an unacceptable restriction on the referendum initiative of our citizens. We are surprised how this government looks at people in a vehement way and does not allow people to express themselves, decides how their money, the 780 million euros, will be spent. We must not forget, the referendum form is one of the fundamental forms of democracy through which people express their authority. And even in Slovenia, the people have power. While we know that the Constitution allows for the restriction of the referendum initiative, we know that under certain conditions. These conditions are very strict conditions. And the Law on Investments in the Slovenian Army certainly does not meet these conditions. It is not a law on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the state, but it is a law that decides on funding for a longer period for six years. And the fact that this government does not allow people to comment on this issue is unacceptable, even perverse. This suggests some mode of operation of this government, which is very clear, but also very much that I do not use a heavy word, unacceptable. This government is trying to break some democratic standards that are in force in this country at all social levels, and today we are likely to see that, even in the light of the constitutional right to a referendum initiative. For this reason, because we strongly oppose this fact, that people are also limited in such a way that even in this way they are subject to repression, we will support this proposal for a consultation referendum in the LMŠ.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Colleague Lydia Divac Mirnik in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u235	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Good-bye! I think people should decide whether we need guns, yes or no. Dear coalition MPs, time is completely inappropriate, let's take a look around. I come from Maribor. In Maribor we need more than weapons medical station Tezna, the reconstruction of the sports hall of Tabor, the western bypass, not least the library. We absolutely need this more than a weapon. And you won't believe it. Of these 780 million, that's what a comet could get in Maribor. But no. You decided we'd rather have guns. That's not what I'm for. And I am sure that when the referendum and people in Maribor ask whether they want a weapon or want a new library, a Western bypass, that we will not drive across the city centre in Maribor, if we want to come to Prekmurje, let's say they need a health station called the Tezna, Sports Hall Tabor or any other investment in sports facilities, believe me, the answer will be very simple and the result will also be that we do not need weapons. That is why, of course, I will vote for people to decide whether they need weapons or would prefer a Maribor library. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u237	Thank you for your word, chairman. Of course I will vote in favour, on behalf of some hygienic democratic minimum. However, it is not only EUR 780 million of additional money to invest in the Slovenian Army, which is, of course, a major problem, so I would vote every time we have an issue to raise. The people have every right to pronounce themselves. And we here today have the nerve to debate the fact that we are about to deny this right to the people. Those of you who will do so, dear colleagues and colleagues, just sign under it, but this is just another step towards the death of democracy. So, of course, I will absolutely support the right of the people to state at the consultation referendum what they think about such a senseless, bizarre investment in the purchase of weapons, the acquisition of weapons that is in the interest of the Nato Pact and the foreign arms industry, which has nothing to do with the survival of our army, and of course it is not a dilemma, as you said, that the dilemma is false, butter or cannons. It was totally wrong what you were referring to in your discussions, so clearly, I will support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u238	Thank you very much. The word is Aljaž Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u239	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The fact is that the Slovenian Army is undernourished, but it is not only the Slovenian Army that is undernourished, there are many systems that we have in Slovenia. For this reason, I wonder whether today is the time to actually invest almost a billion euros in the Slovenian Army. It has already been said what a referendum is, we have an advisory, which I am not the greatest lover, because we know what happened to the provinces; it took more than 17 years to legalize the closure of trades. That's why I kind of agreed to a legislative referendum, which, before it even came to him, this government predicted it would stop him. We must be aware that in the past we had a legislative referendum on such trivial matters as the second track, where hero Willi himself wrote all legal opinions without financial assistance and actually broke the system, we had a family code where most of us decided on the minority, and we even had a referendum on the Archives Act, although most people who were not from the history of archivism had no idea what they were voting on. So these things could have been made by the people, but when we talk about 780 million euros, suddenly the people are not competent to make decisions. And if it's not about that, I wonder what that means for all future things. Of course, I will support and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u240	Thank you very much. The word is from Boštjan Koražija.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u241	Dear President, thank you very much. See, at a time when our people basically adhere to all the rules, wear masks, keep their distance physically, actually obey everything that is necessary to get rid of this coronary crisis, while on the other hand the government holds very little or struggles a little, or even takes advantage of it a lot, and instead of giving up, they just excuse themselves. And in such a case, it is right for the people to say or to be given the opportunity for this consultative referendum. Because look what they can put home in a pen when we buy these guns. In fact, we all know, we have a health, economic and serious social crisis ahead of us, and we will have to fight for every euro and every euro will have to turn smart and well. Time not only is not right in this case, it is worth 780 million for weapons, but in fact such decisions will revolutionize people and also many times, regrettably, there will be no other choice but to go to the streets and show their human will. This will be the real human referendum you will experience if you do such things with our people. I feel like you're taking ours and your citizens instead of saying we're all together. It is also true that you always say who is first-class, and it is you, and who are second-class politicians and citizens, and then these second-class citizens actually save you first-class. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u242	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u243	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Of course, I will support the proposal to call for an advisory referendum, because by constitution, the people have power in Slovenia. And if we are talking about the biggest investment in Slovenia alone during the health epidemic, it is totally unacceptable for the government to come up with priorities such as weapons dealing. Let's be clear, these are not investments in the Slovenian Army, these are arms deals that bring commissions with them and so on. In short, at a time when we have a health system that is in collapse, when medical personnel burn down, when 11 thousand elderly people are waiting for a bed in nursing homes, when we have our children who cannot become independent, they cannot get jobs, they cannot get housing, when in short we should be more concerned with food safety, health, social security, this government, where as many as three parties have democracy in their name, takes the right to decide their destiny. This is totally undemocratic. This is totally unacceptable. That is why it is necessary to vote in favour and I will do it. This government has completely wrong priorities and, worst of all, it is totally undemocratic because it does not care about the people and even fear their opinion and will. Of course, I will support and vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u244	Thank you very much. The word is Meira Hot.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will certainly vote in favour of the consultation referendum myself, because I feel that such an important issue, the social issue, must be decided directly by citizens and citizens. On the board, we've heard that some people think that this kind of referendum is, in the notes, a cheap poll. Such thinking is sad. Regrettably, refusing to carry out the consultation referendum as a cheap survey in advance, this means that your position is that expressing people to you is a cheap survey instead of taking this as a direct instruction on how to act in this case. I see multiple threats in this country right now. The health threat, the threat of poverty, the threat of 41,000 children who are currently living below the poverty threshold and do not know how they will survive the winter, but where I see no security threat. And I would be ashamed to vote in favour of the law, which stipulates that in the next 60 years, six years we will give 780 million for weapons and equipment, and on the other hand we will not invest in children, into people, into homes for older people, we will not invest in places where there are direct priorities. And such a decision is insurmountable for me. The decision you have also made to decide not to allow a legislative referendum, but it already shows your view that it is obviously important what the government decides is important to invest in certain weapons, not what people say. So once again, I will absolutely vote in favour of the consultative referendum. And if this fails, I hope that the coalition parties will see that this law is not necessary and will be rejected for further legislative consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u246	Thank you very much. The word is "Cygler's Turtle."
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u247	Thank you. Colleagues, colleagues! As the state budget gives the Ministry of Defence resources for investments in weapons, new guns through regular grants each year that are growing, are growing heavily, the government wants to give up for defence, to buy weapons for an additional 780 million. At the same time, we do not have 120 million dollars for an infection clinic in Ljubljana that will help people survive. We do not have the money to invest the necessary kindergarten and school premises, which is the obligation of the State. We don't have money for culture and art. These two sectors were killed in the Republic of Slovenia. We don't have money for long-term care. We don't have the money to raise the marginal salaries of employees who take care of people in nursing homes. And when we have this dilemma ahead of us and we talk about it and we cannot decide, they are the only sovereign who decides where money, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia should be allocated. And we have to give them this right, we have to let them have this sovereignty so that they can decide on this issue. For me, first of all, it is necessary to invest in health care, education, culture, art, older people, and in the wages I mentioned earlier, which is why I will absolutely support the proposal to support the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u248	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u249	Thank you for your word, chairman. 780 million euros for weapons means that these 780 million euros will not be for other social sub-systems, which they actually need in blood. It means they're running out of health funds. It means they'll be running out of funds to build old people's homes. And that means they're going to be running out of funds for non-profit youth housing. This is also reflected in the budgets for 2021 and 2022 prepared by the Janša government. Since weapons are purchased under the NATO Pact dictatorship, which we do not need, there are no funds in these budgets for both infective clinics in Ljubljana and Maribor, which are key institutions in defence of the coronavirus. Citizens and citizens in this country, of course, know very well that 780 million for weapons means that this money will not be available for their needs, so they strongly oppose this purchase. And since the government has intimidated its citizens and citizens, it has decided to ban the referendum. We are not just talking about the consultation referendum, we are also talking about the subsequent legislative referendum, which is binding and we have also announced it in Levica. We will vote in Levica to hold a consultative referendum, just as we will insist on a legislative referendum, not to waste 780 million on weapons, but on the development and well-being of citizens and citizens, especially in the context of the coronary epidemic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u250	Luke the Moon has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u251	Thank you very much. I would add one more thing, and it was often heard that the referendum was some kind of expensive survey, costing EUR 3 million. But there is one fundamental difference between the money involved in the referendum and the money involved in the weapons. Money for a referendum - does anyone get it? It is obtained by people who work on voters who work in these places, it is said, more or less students, pensioners, workers who earn a little more in this way one Sunday, and this money turns around and spends very quickly in Slovenia. In short, this is the money we distribute to our people. 780 million is a completely different story. Of these 780 million won't even stay in Slovenia, but the entire amount goes to the foreign arms industry and will support jobs, profits, investments, for example, the US military industrial complex. In these times of crisis, when we are all below ground, we are subsidising the foreign arms industry. That's what this is about. But more importantly, through all the debates we have had so far, I think it is clear to all of us that there is a huge gap between the government and the opposition or between the government and the people's opinion, which in 75% opposes this procurement of weapons. And those of you who were 30 years ago or 30 years ago saying that we're going to be the second Switzerland, here's your chance. In Switzerland there is no prime minister who would sit in his seat and say, L'état, c'est moi, but there is a decision by consensus, there is a broad popular support for action and a referendum there is something everyday. If we talk about how to go about some democracy of the 21st century, a referendum is how to start it. Of course I'll back things up.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u252	Tina Hefferle in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u253	Yes, I will tell you why, in particular from my point of view today, I will support this proposal for a consultative referendum. The consultation referendum is not binding, but in normal democracies, the government, the real executive branch of power, should give much to people's opinions. Given that this law, which we want to hold a referendum, governs the financing of the Slovenian Armed Forces of EUR 780 million of what is not negligible, more than 70% for the purchase of eight-wheelers, which is clear to all that in these times in which we now live, for our citizens, for our country, for the safety of our country and our citizens is absolutely unnecessary, or unnecessary investment. And given that the government has so much to say about this referendum, both the consultative referendum and the subsequent legislative referendum, it is very obvious that it is afraid that the people would say no to these investments, that the people are so clever as to say no to these times in which the financial crisis threatens us, the health crisis, let us give this money to spend more rationally. But, no, you just walk your head through the wall. And this is really unacceptable ignoring the will of people and ignoring the democratic standards expressed through the referendum. That is why I will support this proposal today.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u254	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 47. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 12th item of the agenda, which is the 25th Annual Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. The amendments to the proposal for a recommendation were not tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a recommendation to the 25th Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I note that the report has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 13th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of the tasks of the State preventive mechanism under the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment for 2019. The amendments to the proposal for a recommendation were not tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a recommendation to that recommendation of the Ombudsman. We're voting. 82 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the proposal for a digital service tax law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a digital service tax law is suitable for further consideration. My colleague Luke the Moon on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u255	Thank you. This law, which we have proposed in Levica, refers to the taxation of digital giants, says Internet companies that have more than 750 million revenues annually at global level will be undermined by the following things. First of all, the value of these companies is created by all of us, all users of Facebook, all users of Google, every time you open Facebook or when you just take a step there, you create the value of these companies because their value is based on it. They record every click, with GPS devices every step of our way, through contacts, acquaintances, facebook-friends every contact and acquaintance we have, every search entry we have and create the avatar of our profile. Like, avatar Luka Moon very clearly defined details, what I'm interested in, where I'm going, who I'm hanging out with, and so on. And they actually collect this data about us, often past our knowledge, then sell it to online advertisers. And in this way Google and Facebook have already dominated about a third of the world market market. But the joke is that no country in the world can tax these revenues because they, despite creating value here, show profits in tax havens. They can do this completely easily because their revenues are completely lenient and the tax systems of the world countries, including Slovenia, are not adapted to their business model. That is why we have drawn up in Levica a law based on the pattern of the European Commission, which has proposed that their revenues be taxed by flat-rate taxes. We have collected the data provided by Furs, which says that these digital companies, the digital giants concerned by our law, about 17 global companies create around 100 million euro per year in Slovenia with targeted advertising, but not even a cent of the tax on profits. So our proposal is simple, according to the system proposed by the European Commission, which was almost accepted at European level, but rejected by the Scandinavians because they oppose the fiscal union, and by the Irish because they are essentially serving to offer tax evasion to these companies, we have now proposed, following the example of other countries, headed by France, Italy, Spain, Hungary, Poland and others, that we should tax them ourselves, at a rate of 7%. In this way no Slovenian company will be taxed, but we will receive about 10 million per year in the budget. We will, of course, vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u256	We're voting. There are 81 members present, 38 votes against 43. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the financial unloading of municipalities is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Buddy Rudy Bear.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u257	Thank you for your word. The Law on the Financial Discharge of the Communities came from scratch, after the municipalities had been behind the bell for many years, that the state was constantly burdening them to impose new and new financial burdens on them, while at the same time the State budget did not accompany the financing of these burdens. The government of Marjana Šarca went with the municipalities to open, open, honest dialogue to see what these burdens are, to simply look for them and also to find ways to relieve the municipalities where they are or, of course, to carry out only the accounting service for the country. The municipalities considered this law to be good. At the moment, it is not so important who proposed it, I think it is of course important for the municipalities to be financially burdened under this law. The debate, of course, heard that this text would continue to be significantly improved and upgraded. It is true that it will be improved, but it is also true that the Minister of Public Administration has expected virtually all these solutions, which are planned as amendments in the future process, at a table such as higher subsidisation of investments or subsidisation of non-profit rents, the insurance of firefighters. These are the burdens that will be borne by our country in the future. So the minister actually came to this marriage. It was also heard that this government provided the highest, best standard to the municipalities, after several months of taking over. Of course, it raised the average at a 4-billion-dollar budget deficit. But we have warned and we warn now what will happen when this money runs out like this pillow will no longer be. Although this law is only the beginning of the resolution of the problem of financing local self-government. In the List of Marjan Šarc we will support the law, of course because it is ours, and, as I say, it is only the beginning of the resolution of the situation of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Is there any other explanation in your own? First on behalf of the Member of Parliament, what is it? No, no, no. Then Lydia the Savage Mirnik in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u259	Thank you so much for saying that, President. As you know, I come from Maribor. The Maribor municipality is underfunded, for the country charges it more than €30 million of mandatory tasks each year than it gives it money, so the next step must be a reliable change in the formula of averages. However, since the City Municipality of Maribor has to do 30 million mandatory tasks, of course 30 million euros a year is running out for, three times – for investments. Investments, of course, are necessary. Before we talked about the health station in Tezne, we talked about the renewals of the sports hall, that about roads and curbs that we don't have in Maribor yet, I don't even start to explain. I do not explain the municipality there in Slovenia, but I am talking about the second largest city in Slovenia. I therefore propose that you, of course, support this proposal, which we have already drawn up in the government of Marjan Šarc. I also suggest that we give the money we would give for the weapons for the health station at Tezne in Maribor and for all the other investments that we urgently need in Maribor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Franz Duck's explanation of voice in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u261	Thank you for your word. As you may not know, I have come from the Belokran village of Zilje since you made me a pre-politicalist and dragged me down the floor, but in Del I was labeled a Mariborian and former pianist of the police in Maribor said that the Mariborian state of the spirit, and of course I am a Mariborian clan. As Lydia said well, although we will support this, Maribor will run out of manicure and pedicure if I paraphrase the current district minister because it will still scrape the circus 20 million. As I have been here for the seventh year, we need a serious reform of local self-government. Personally, I think that we need to give education and the primary level of health care to the national level in order to also burden the municipal budgets. We must also conclude with this balanced woman that all congregations are equal, of course, which they are not. We also need a law on municipal municipalities, because the municipalities are regional centres, I don't just like Maribor, and I also like Dublek a lot more in between, Šikole, Makola and so on, I won't mention. And I think it's gonna have to be cut and cut once. Some mayors won't be comfortable with that. And to be honest, we have this situation because such a centralisation of the state has been in line with certain old political roads for 30 years. And I think we're going to move forward here in due course also because there are some young generations of mayors and mayors who won't allow it anymore. Maribor - champion! I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Andrei Reich in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u263	That's it. Thank you so much for saying that. It's true, there's a problem with the town of Drava. The Mayor of the Municipality of Maribor has warned us publicly that according to the appropriate funding the Municipality of Maribor is only in 208th place among 212 municipalities. And we're not just talking about centralisation here, so there are five urban municipalities among the last 15 unfunded municipalities. And when we talk about matters, we can then conclude that apparently the city’s municipalities do not have an adequate calculation to finance their activities. And if we have one bag of money at our disposal, then we must all be equally satisfied or all equally hungry. And the other thing that is is investment. We must be aware that jobs in Šostjanje are being financed from the Drava river basin, that investments are being made on the lower Sava and that jobs are being created there that generate income. And then when we talk about the appropriate funding of municipalities and essentially the loss of income, if we want to develop all the places equally, all these factors must be taken into account and compensated. I will not speak in this case with my finger in Ljubljana, but if we look at the cash flow, we see that the cash flow from the Drava Valley flows into the Sava Valley and the Shale Valley. And that is a fact and we will have to address it properly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-27-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u264	Thank you very much. We're voting. 82 Members attended, 79 votes against 2. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on the Interior, the Public Administration and local self-government of the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Slovenian Demographic Reserves, the Fund for the co-financing of pension and disability insurance. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on Slovenian demographic reserves, a co-financing fund for pension and disability insurance is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 82 Members present, with 35 votes against 47. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and therefore the legislative procedure in the proposal is terminated. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 21st meeting of the National Assembly.
