ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! My colleagues, I haven't even greeted you yet. I've got the first procedural procedure. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u2	President, we don't have the cards yet. I'm the only one with the cards. I don't know why. Now they went to look for cards because we thought we all had SD cards. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u3	Okay. I'm adjourning the session for 15 minutes to get this sorted out. Ten minutes. And we're going to move on to twelve. (The sitting was suspended at 12.02 p.m.) (The sitting resumed at 12.10.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u4	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting the 37th extraordinary session of the National Assembly. I am informed that Members Ferenc Horváth and Samo Bevk cannot attend today's meeting from 2 p.m. on. At the meeting, I invited representatives of the government to both points. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 37th extraordinary meeting. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] The National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Thursday, 7 May 2020, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received a proposal to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. Before we come to a decision, however, the first procedural colleague is Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u5	Thank you for your word, chairman. As a matter of procedure in Levica, we propose that item 2 be removed from the agenda, this is the report of the Government of Janez Janša, who notes that the Government of Janez Janša is not to blame. I'm talking, of course, about the acquisitions of protective equipment, about everything that's been going on at the department store. This point is accompanied by a decision which is illegal. With this decision, the Government of Janez Janša wants to make the State Assembly, and for these crimes, for organised crime, to be supported by the National Assembly, a secret in providing commissions to its friendly suppliers. We strongly oppose this one in Levico. On our side there is also a procedural framework for this point. The material, i.e. the report and the decision was put into the wrong procedure and accompanied, as has already been said, by a decision which is illegal, is also unconstitutional, even against the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, by the Committee on the Economy. The commissions under the government of Janez Janša apparently go to heaven every time. This time, it's the point where these commissions are grinding protective equipment. And instead of the government repenting of its mistake by ignoring all calls for the direct purchase of protective equipment, now commissions defend with lies. It is clear that the Government is not the first priority for the protection of the health of citizens and citizens, it is not the first priority to maintain the state budget and rational use of public finances, but the commissions for supply friends. And then we could have tried the next saga of lies. First, the Ministry of Economy argued that it could not directly import equipment because it did not have a legal basis. It has been shown that the legal articles to which the Ministry of Economy refers in Slovenian legislation do not exist at all, as confirmed by the Court of Auditors. They then said that we cannot import the protective equipment directly because the production of the company in China requires a hundred percent advance. But why, then, did one hundred percent advance receive under the government of John Janša every supplier if it was only connected to the right political party? Finally, the government of Janez Janša defends with lies that the state of Slovenia did not have the capacity to make direct purchases. But any other country that has made use of these direct purchases has used its diplomatic network, and the Republic of Slovenia could succeed. For all these reasons, presidents, I believe that you must withdraw item 2 from the agenda and withdraw the decision, which is illegal, also unconstitutional and also against the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u6	Dear colleague Kordish, I think you know the Rules of Procedure enough to know that I can't do it. That this point was placed on the basis of an extraordinary meeting on the basis of the request of the Group of Members and Members and the Rules of Procedure do not allow us to withdraw it from the agenda in the manner you wish. But I suggest, given that I believe that even on Thursday, when we consider item 2, the debate will probably be quite heated to avoid the obvious about how someone is accused of being a criminal and so on, because I cannot assure you that if someone accuses you, you will be protected from the courts if you use such a dictionary. I'm totally well-intentioned with freedom of speech, but if you tell someone that he's a criminal and that he's stealing, you have to be aware of all the consonants that he might have to follow. My friend Kordish has a first word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u7	Thank you for your word, chairman. Obviously, you can do anything in this country if you control the judiciary and the police's vertical. It is no coincidence that Janez Janša’s government has put police vertical control first for one of its priorities. First they replaced the first man on the force with their own man, then they did the same at the scene of the first criminalist, and then they went after the repressive apparatus, and they ended up replacing the head of the National Investigation Office. At the same time, the court found that Janez Janša on Twitter could insult journalists with “whores” and that this is completely illuminating, obviously, now the president [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u8	Let's not abuse the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u9	Presidents, you threaten me before prosecution, because you refer to the government's dedicated decision on commissions for friendly companies as organised crime. President, unacceptable. The same as the unacceptable 2nd item of the agenda for today's meeting and its conclusion. We know who put pressure on the Department of Commerce. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party are also mentioned, mentioned by Alenka Jeraj [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u10	What's your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u11	Jelka Godec and other politicians from the circle of Slovenian right, Matthew Tonin, his mother and all the rest of the commissions in the sky. [[…]] To protect this organised crime is the government of Janez Janša [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u12	What's your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u13	I conclude with a statement by the President stating that the government of Janez Janša is not to blame. [[…]] This report is actually a propaganda pamphlet. There are very few lies and untruths in it. In order to win the support of the National Assembly for this organised crime, the report submitted a report to the parliamentary procedure by means of the wrong procedure and, in addition to this false procedure, imposed a decision which is illegal as we have heard from the Committee on the Economy, also by the Legislative and Legal Service, that it is unconstitutional and that it goes against the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This procedure should have stopped by then and there. I should not be allowed to go any further until today, after this whole procedure, at a meeting of the National Assembly. We can stop the point, withdraw and, for my sake, re-submit only the report to the hearing, but by the proper procedure to inform the National Assembly not that the Government is still committed to further support. In this way we not only defend the fundamentals of parliamentary democracy, but also defend the integrity of this institution, which has been on strike and questioned for at least one and a half months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u14	Comrade Kordish, do not defend the integrity of this institution, this is now the second abuse of the Rules of Procedure. I told you why I can't get this point out of the agenda. My colleague Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u15	My procedural proposal, Mr Igor Zorčič, is to apologize to the Member who is threatening him that if someone accuses him of not having immunity. This National Assembly is a house of democracy, where each Member can unmistakablely discuss and present his views and opinions of his constituents and colleague Pojbič Macha, who you have taken to the defence when he threatened left-wing Members who openly threatened both on Twitter and on Facebook to threaten and then say that you must protect the integrity of the National Assembly. What integrity it is to put yourself on the side of the far right government, which you belong to and thus work with the members of the opposition, that we must not today in a free Europe, I hope, once again within Parliament, to discuss and draw attention to irregularities. How will we maintain any more faith in this integrity that you are talking about if you are so resolutely putting yourself on one side, and I will not say now whether it is wrong or right, but, as long as this National Assembly still has a function, its own, and as long as we can still face opinions here, you must not allow yourself until then to take the parliamentary immunity to debate here within. When you do that, then I really don't know where we fell? Therefore, my procedural proposal is to apologize to Members and to abstain from such judgments as are in favour of the court and what is not, and even prejudice, and you are a lawyer by profession, how this court will judge in such a case. I'm sorry, it's unacceptable and very embarrassing for this National Assembly. I hope you'll apologize, never say something like that again, because this is really a precedent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u16	My colleague Tomić, thank you for this procedural one that wasn't. If you have listened carefully to me, I have not threatened anyone, but I appeal to all Members, all Members and Members of the National Assembly, to abstain from a dictionary that accuses someone of a crime in the way that I have mentioned that he is a criminal or anything like that. [[advertising from the hall]] Of course, crime is not allowed, but it is a single level of debate, and now you understand as you wish. A colleague of Hefferle's, then a runaway, a bitch. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. I will make a very clear procedural proposal, in accordance with paragraph 4 of Article 73, and I will first explain. Friday's Committee on the Economy was convened, of course, totally wrong. The report to be considered and dealt with has been introduced into our system as an act, which of course means that the entire procedure of the National Assembly is very different from that envisaged for reports that the National Assembly is only familiar with. The Committee was told that there had been an error in the “knowledge” of this act and that this error was the result of which we treat this report as an act. This is not an excuse to violate the rules of business, since the Government could then submit a report to the National Assembly as a law and be treated as what, in three stages, as we consider each law? In short, it's not a criterion. The second thing that was wrong on Friday on the committee that we received a proposal from a member of Parliament for two conclusions with the Government's head, with the text of the Government, unsigned, in short, the executive branch of the government directed some content of the decision to the legislative branch of the government, before we considered anything substantive and defined ourselves to anything. Thirdly, I would point out, and this is crucial, that I will not be interpreted as just my opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service, in its opinion, on Friday, both in writing and twice, orally, at a meeting of the Committee, explained that, for the adoption of such a decision, as the Government had originally proposed, and then, by a skillful amendment, the Members have changed it so that it became a decision of the Committee at once, the Legislative and Legal Service says: "There is no legal basis for such a decision, not in the Constitution, not in law and not in the Rules of Procedure and is not given" - a sign for the conclusion of the debate/ "the competence of the National Assembly to adopt such a decision." So, in view of all I have said, my procedural proposal, Mr President, is that, in accordance with paragraphs 73 and 4, I shall quote: "If the National Assembly decides that it is necessary to obtain an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, the President shall terminate the consideration of the agenda item or terminate the meeting." We've already addressed a letter to you today, [[sign for the end of the debate]] with the signature of the Head of the Parliamentary Group, where we want the Legislative and Legal Service to be declared, whether the particulars are even business terms for dealing with the second item of this extraordinary meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u18	Thank you very much. My friend Runk. Thank you very much. My friend Runk, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u19	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. In constitutional parliamentary democracy, it is clear that you share between the different three branches of power and the relationship between them. Any Government in the Constitutional Parliamentary Republic of Slovenia corresponds to the National Assembly and not vice versa. This is recorded in Article 110 of our Constitution. Any Government may report orally or in writing to the National Assembly, as set out in Rule 239 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, commonly referred to as the Small Constitution and in this reporting can thus be written in writing, did not intend to do so, yet further explain its reporting and the Government has submitted a report, the discretionary right of the Government is, of course, to write what it wants in this report. I can, I don't know, the version of Kajetan Kovic because of me, who loves my poet. He can't, he can't, and this is said three times by the Law-Legal Service, I don't know, in the mill he usually talks twice, push some cowardly eggs inside, which is actually the conclusion that there is no legal basis not in the Constitution, not in the legislation on cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly and not in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Even more. An experienced member of the coalition, Comrade Jani, who comes from the same party as you, has made it very clear to you that you actually want to underpin a decision that could arise in the National Assembly on the basis of the serious work of an investigative commission. And then we could discuss it. He cannot and must not, because of the Government's power-sharing to the National Assembly, say what we are going to conclude in one way or another. And at the same time, there is no legal basis for this cowardly egg to be planted in the report, because it is very clearly defined and it is also a very clear parliamentary practice, what the report is and what this sort of rosacea, which says colleague Heferle, who was not even crazy, was very clear, was about as if I put poison in the cake, it is no longer poison, it is cake. Which, for the third time, has been said very clearly by the representative of the Legislative and Legal Committee. [[End of discussion warning sign]] Our service, that it is essentially, as my children say, the same “bullshit” is just a little differently packed. I agree with colleague Hefferle, and I ask myself personally, and I also wonder, on behalf of the Social Democrats, how this could have been introduced in this way, especially since the National Assembly is headed by a lawyer. More than a sufficient number of reasons are that something that does not have a legal basis must be [[End of discussion warning sign]] withdraw from the agenda of the National Assembly, because then it is no longer the National Assembly, it is I don't know the tavern, the floater, anything but what the National Assembly, which of course must do its coming operation [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u20	Thanks, buddy. You're running out of time. I will define myself to your proposal and to my colleague Heferle's proposal (a little silence, please) when I gather all the procedural proposals, because I see that some are very similar. My colleague Sukich? [[No, no, ……]] My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u21	Thank you so much for saying that. You started the meeting and said that there was no proposal to withdraw the agenda item and that there was also no proposal for enlargement and the agenda should be adopted as set out. What you're saying right now, what it should be, can come out later. This is the case when the point is being considered. Until the agenda is set, however, the President is neither procedural proposals nor replicas, because there is no basis for any such debate. It's perfectly simple. I propose that you find out that the agenda has been adopted and that we move on to item 1. Everything else is conduct that has no basis with the Rules of Procedure and rules that should be in force, which are recorded in this National Assembly. None. It is impossible to discuss procedural proposals before the meeting begins. Having a replica on something is impossible because what you're attacking is not really there yet. And I think that for all this debate, this lullaby and here and before on the working body, there is absolutely, absolutely no basis. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, whatever it is, is a mandatory component, but it is not a veto or consent to the consideration of the point at the meeting, the plenary meeting of the National Assembly, or the working body. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service may be taken into account, not, if not taken into account, other, other matters may continue to be brought to the Constitutional Court and so on. And we've had cases like this before, even in your mandate, which you have left unfavorably. Now, about what the government can and can't submit. I think that the Government can present a point of the agenda, including a proposal as to how it imagines it, and on you Members or on us Members, it is up to us to process this matter, to amend it, to arrange it, to adopt alternative conclusions, other conclusions and so on. This beating, however, is quite irrelevant, Mr President, and I think that the meeting should begin as it begins and move from there to the first point and deal with it in a scenario ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Procedural colleague Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u23	Yes, thank you. Procedurally. Even the doctor of the Rules of Procedure got a little lost because we haven't voted on the agenda yet. Indeed, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service can be taken into account or not, but obviously this coalition will take it into account in such a way that in this country, as long as it is in power, something that does not have a legal basis, which means that the Constitution no longer applies, the Rules of Procedure no longer apply and the laws no longer apply, except those which are you, Dr. Tanko likes. Then we can leave the opposition to obstruct the National Assembly until then, and I don't know what, we're going to burn the Constitution in protest. The procedural proposal was made by colleague Tina Heferle and I think it is necessary to define and vote on this procedural proposal. Of course, such a agenda as you have proposed, not alone, not the Social Democrats, nor the democratic part of the opposition, except with which your friendly exception will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u24	Thank you very much, buddy Duck. That's what you're actually saying right now, what you're already in pre-trial procedure. A friend of the moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u25	Yes, thank you. I'm going to fence myself against all the syllables, and I'm just going to take on the essence. My colleague Tanko says that no proposal for an extension of the agenda or a proposal for a withdrawal of the point has come to the beginning of the meeting. But see, we have a two-point session, where the second point is, this is the report on masks with that decision, tabled in the wrong way and proposed a decision which is illegal. Therefore, Mr President, not that we have to convince you to withdraw the point, you are the one who should not even put such points on the agenda. We cannot have an irregularly inserted point of view with an illegal decision before the National Assembly. So where did we come from? You must withdraw this point before we can even begin this session. Otherwise, we will start the session by violating the Rules of Procedure, laws and Constitution, and you are a lawyer and you know that.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u26	My colleague Luke Moon, this claim that the material was incorrectly filed, that's your claim. Here most of the National Assembly disagrees with you. The fact is that it has also been discussed at a meeting of the competent committee and that this material and also the conclusions of the committee have been prepared for the plenary session. Now, as far as the procedural procedure proposed by colleague Heferle and colleague Trček is concerned, we cannot decide on this at this time, because we do not have a specific agenda yet, but I can now point out that the additional opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service in this matter would not be useful once in a while. In view of this – just a little bit to say to the end – given that the decision you are in trouble with is possible to amend. It is also possible to amend it in a way that completely changes its content or, in order to erase it, and by that time, it would be unwise to receive an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, if we do not know what will ultimately be the content of the decision to be decided by the National Assembly. [[advertising from the hall]] Now, colleagues and colleagues, if your procedural agenda is to be on the agenda, I propose that we go to the vote at least, see whether the agenda is voted on or not. A colleague, Hefferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr President, see, as all procedural proposals are allowed as soon as the meeting begins, we do not need to confirm any agenda for the Member to be given the floor for his procedural proposal, so my proposal is to have the Legislative and Legal Service express itself on this 2nd item, whether it is acceptable for him to be on the agenda, whether the procedure has been carried out in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which we have already warned on Friday, and today I have also explained that the report has not been considered as a report, but has been treated as an act. I therefore believe that you must put my procedural proposal to the vote in accordance with paragraph 4 of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure. Because the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on this item of the agenda is extremely important to determine whether this extraordinary meeting will be in line with the legislation on Thursday, when it will continue with this 2nd item of the dispute, in general, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and not least in accordance with the Constitution. This was pointed out by the Law-Legal Service very clearly in its opinion. Furthermore, if we were to make a proposal to withdraw this item from the agenda, of course we both know that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the drafter has to agree to withdraw, so that here the coalition majority would overtake this proposal and, therefore, once again, my appeal is to have the Rule of Law spoken about this point and to make it clear once again whether it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or whether it is in accordance with the law and whether it is in accordance with the Constitution. And then we can talk about whether we're going to confirm this agenda, which contains this 2nd point or not. This is what I think is a key issue, and this is a key issue that needs to be heard once again by the Legislative and Legal Service. Perhaps then you, on the coalition side, will understand the point.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u28	[[advertising from the hall]] Look, buddy Duck, I hope it's not the same as it was. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u29	Yes, thank you. Look, my first procedural proposal is, if the Rules of Procedure are still in force – I'm not sure – are you listening to me as chairman? To follow the Rules of Procedure, and as chairman here you explain the Rules of Procedure, you explain it, not to Parliament with us. That's the first one. Second. As chairman of the National Assembly, as a lawyer, as someone who must have a Rules of Procedure in a small finger, please explain to me how I should amend something that does not have a legal basis, not in the Constitution, not in the legislation and in the Rules of Procedure? If it already applies, it is the discretion of Members and Members to take into account the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service or not. Here Dr. Rules of Procedure Tanko is right, but how can I, as an MP, represent all the people in constitutional parliamentary democracy, change, amend something that has no basis in the Constitution, in law, in the Rules of Procedure? Please let me explain this nicely so that I can decide whether I continue or not in this charade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u30	I can only explain to you, Comrade Trček, if you ask me why I am parliamentary, then I will not answer you. Look, buddy Duck, I'll explain to you why there's not gonna be any ping pong here right now. The Legislative and Legal Service has given its opinion on both conclusions. And until the second conclusion, it was extremely critical, you've read it. But what was then adopted on the working body is not this second conclusion, which is problematic, but it was the first conclusion. And your assessment that this is unconstitutional is just your assessment. Now, look, if you allow us to move forward with this meeting, I will put to the vote first the proposal to set the agenda. If this is determined, I will also put to the vote a decision to request an additional opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service. I hope you will be pleased that this is what you want. My friend Runk.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u31	Yes, thank you, Madam President, for explaining yourself to me. I believe that the number of people you don't like working on Fridays and maybe you didn't follow the session until the end, because it's the Law-Legal Service-
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u32	Let's keep these grades going, please. I was watching the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u33	Okay, but then how did you overhear, because the session was probably long, that the Law-Legal Service was very selective and clear in its opinion also regarding this charade that you made, that the second article hides itself in the first and said that, in fact, I will use what I have at the end of my language, the same crap, the second pack and that there is still no legal basis. It's not about any of Duck's opinions, but, you know, Duck doesn't know much, but he listens to someone who knows something, unlike anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u34	Come on, I mean, I don't know where we're going with these procedurals. If the law enforcement said that, then I don't know why we'd need her opinion, right? I mean, look, buddy, I'm gonna ask you to calm down. The fact is, I expected today to be countless procedural in terms of what we observed on the working body, but I suggest that at least we do not pretend to give one part of the process through, so that we can give the next. First my friend Kordish, then my friend Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u35	Thank you for your word, chairman. My first motion of procedure is, sit in the chair of the National Assembly. The operating minimum for the President of the National Assembly is that you properly collect applications and assign words, but not that you are here serially overlooking opposition MPs who raise our hands and so on. That's just the first thing. Second thing. The decision annexed to item 2 of the agenda shall be illegal and shall not be contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. And this decision defends the commissions of friends of Janša's government in the business sector that have supplied-
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u36	Hey, buddy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u37	- Protective equipment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u38	What's your procedural status?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u39	And you, the presidents, are saying that we in Levica, as the opposition, should just say that we have to amend this conclusion and everything will be okay? It's not gonna be okay. The coalition voter will go through any amendment and the decision will remain unconstitutional, illegal and anti-rule. I'm plowing you with a pretty good analogy. In the same way, the government could bring to the procedure the conclusion that all members of the Left should be arrested – and you would say what? “Amend this decision”? Of course not. As President of the National Assembly, we should have responded long ago at the beginning of the procedure that there are no legal grounds that such a decision cannot and should not go into the decision-making of the National Assembly and such a response would be correct. You didn't do it. Nor did the SMC Chairman of the Economic Committee. These are all the points that should have already happened, and they haven't. Therefore, the only burden that we still have is a procedural intervention at the beginning of this meeting of the National Assembly, before deciding on the agenda for this point to withdraw, if you have not already taken the initiative to match the shoes you are wearing as President of the National Assembly. If you do not believe us in the opposition, let us get the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, and the Legislative and Legal Service will speak on these matters, because it has not already spoken in any substantive but very technical way at the level of the procedure. And we can very clearly, decisively, without any serious interpretation, but directly read the record that it is against the constitutional, illegal and commercial action of the Government. I can add, however, that this action by the Government is for the purpose of obtaining support from the National Assembly for the protection and concealment of its organised crime and commission in the procurement of protected equipment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u40	My friend Kordish, that wasn't procedural. You just repeated yourself, a little mud. Now, I've got a few more procedurals. First my colleague Han and then my colleague Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know if there's anything I can do to help, but let's just calm down a little story. The fact is that we are ahead of an important session when we talk about the budget decree. We expect people from us to make such a budget so that people can live in some way in the coming years. However, I would suggest that you propose one of my proposals, procedural, if, of course, you put it to the vote or you can arrange it yourself. The fact is, we had the College four days ago, where we determined where we talked about this meeting. The fact is that we had already been skeptical in the opposition of this proposal for a decision on the condition of the acquisition of masks, and the fact is that we did not have an opinion at the time of the Law-Legal Service, and it is true that we adopted this agenda at the College. On Friday, the Legislative and Legal Service made it clear that this act was not properly implemented and that it has decisions against the law or the Constitution in the act, and now I am proposing to the President, if possible, that only you can do so, I am aware that you have a majority and that you can vote on everything, vote on both the law and the laws, and I do not know what and vote on us to convene a meeting of the leaders of the groups before the vote, to agree on at least one gentlemen's agreement that before we go to the vote on the agenda, because this point is, this decision at this point in the agenda, to get the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service in the hands of the leaders of the sent groups. Since then, if you vote us over, okay, I understand this democracy, but of course I know that then the matter is very serious, and that we will then consider in the SD Group, or we will participate in this point. Therefore, I would ask the President to convene for 20 minutes now either the College or the advice of the leaders of the parliamentary groups to agree on at least this minimum, to get an opinion from the Legal and Legal Service, and then to vote the agenda in one way or another, or to vote us out, or to say so with a gentleman's agreement, because otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, in ten months, in this country, people will be hungry because they will lose their jobs, and you are here now, not to say "Trcko", we are just kidding, because you, the President, will not let us at least get an opinion on the Legal Service, because we have to respect some standards even in a hell of a time. Therefore, once again, I ask you to convene a consultation of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, it will take us half an hour to agree on how we will bring this meeting down, and it will be significantly easier because otherwise we will have procedural proposals from a minute to minute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u42	I will not convene this meeting because the agenda and the meeting are set in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We have a request from Members and Members and a decision by the College, and it would be unusual to point out a new practice now that a meeting, which has already been decided to call it so, with the College, has been cancelled at a meeting of the College. Now, as far as the legislative service is concerned, I have announced what I intend to do or how we will take a decision on this. My friend Alaj Kovačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Since yesterday and today we celebrated 75 years of victory over Nazism and fascism, sometimes I wonder if this victory was forever. Today we heard that we should be careful what we can say. The Vice-President of the National Assembly said to take note of the agenda, which saddens me that as President you did not warn him and at least tell him that we are voting on the agenda, you will most likely run us over, but I would expect you to warn him that the agenda is at least today. Then the third issue here is an illegal decision to which the Law-Legal Service refers. You are doing a similar political manoeuvre, as your president did on the Committee on the Economy, when the entire opposition warned that it was an illegal act, you wanted to confirm the agenda through some political act, that we then discussed this point in a way that everyone actually warned that we should not. For more than three hours, the committee objected to hearing the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. When two coalition MPs pointed out similar things to the opposition's warning and we put a decision to the vote, it is finally, I think after three hours, the Legislative and Legal Service got the word and actually confirmed what we all said. That, in fact, the examination of this Decision itself is illegal and that it must not even be voted on. I think you have the same problem as your President on the Committee on the Economy that you understand this matter, but you cannot understand it. Given that you have three vice-presidents, my procedural proposal, given that you have already violated the Rules of Procedure several times in the last month, and I think that we still have the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and not any rules of procedure of one party, is my procedural proposal to withdraw from this place and to hold one of the vice-presidents from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u44	Comrade Kovacic, of course, this was not a procedural proposal. That was your opinion. Colleague Sukich, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u45	Your Honor! This meeting was not convened in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because if it had been convened in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it would not have included another point where we have a decision which is not unconstitutional, illegal and against the Rules of Procedure. So this is the first deception you've ever afforded. The moment you swore your oath as President of the National Assembly, you swore to comply with the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure. You have sworn to defend democratic norms in this National Assembly and to defend not only the reputation but also the independence of this institution of parliamentary democracy. You swore all this.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u46	That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u47	And now, Madam President, I call on you to actually act in accordance with your oath and to stop ignoring your profession. In this case, the profession is the Legal and Legal Service. And since the Legal and Legal Service is the one who is helping you to act in accordance with your own oath, please refer to this profession, given that the opposition has been warning you since the meeting of the committee on what is wrong with your decision. And only the legal and legal service here is professional. You're not the judge. They are the ones who help you to do what you have to do when you have sworn. Therefore, I propose that you actually suspend this meeting, ask the Legal and Legislative Service to define clearly and decisively until the 2nd item of the agenda of this meeting, and then, I do not know, as my colleagues have proposed before me, consult with the leaders of the parliamentary groups and put on the agenda as it should be, in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the laws which are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And this is what we expect of you Members and Members of Parliament. And I call on you to act as President of all Members and Members, without somehow engaging in a biased coalition act here, even commenting, interpreting and interrupting the debates of Members when we come to. That's my call. Please let's face it, because this is no longer a joke, this is a walk on the edge of democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u48	Colleague Sukič, I hope you agree with me that if you give me a proposal or an eyewitness or a warning that I may answer that question. Therefore, do not take lightly if I answer you or give you my opinion. Yeah, I took an oath and I stick to this Rules of Procedure, the law and the Constitution. And I have announced to you that, even in this opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, I will put this to a vote in the National Assembly, although this is not the most common thing to get opinions from the Legislative and Legal Service even before we have the final form of this decision, which is today the main problem in this house. It would be best if we had, then the opinion of the Law-Legal Service, when we have the final form, but I don't know today if you're in such a hurry, we'll have it sooner or not how the National Assembly will decide. I suggest we go to the vote on the agenda. We're voting. I'll put it on a procedural basis after the vote! There are 85 Members and Members present, 53 votes in favour and 31. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 31.]] Procedurally, Comrade Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u49	Thank you for your word, chairman. I listened very well to you, you said that you were holding onto yourself, that you had made a precept, that you adhere to the Constitution, the laws and the Rules of Procedure, and how, then, you allowed something to be put to the vote that had no legal basis, not in the Constitution, not in the Rules of Procedure, not in the law. After all, or you know, because of me, the government can, if it wants to propose an intervention law, in which it will write that Charec is responsible for everything but the Duck, so that Drava runs from Dravograd to Maribor and does not put it in the right place and we will, then probably push it to the Constitutional Court. You've actually violated some very generously. The report is a report and the Slovenian Parliamentary Practices report does not have an integral part of what the National Assembly is supposed to conclude, as has been repeated several times. You have now denied yourself the chairman. My procedural proposal is the same as my colleague told me before me that you are obviously not in a position to chair the meeting at this time and that I would ask her to continue to quote Tonin: “People and women, Vice-President of the National Assembly.”
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u50	My friend Runk is not worth telling you anything. I will put to the vote one more proposal for a decision before moving to the first point in order to define the legality of this second point, which will be discussed on Thursday. To determine the legality of the point or decision under point 2 of the Legislative and Legal Service. It is said: “In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving to a decision on the proposal to obtain an opinion by the ZPS on the fulfilment of the terms of reference for the second item of the agenda at the 37th meeting of the assembly.” We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present and 37 votes against 49. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal for a Decision amending the Framework for the preparation of the budget of the State sector for the period 2020 to 2022. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Andrea Shirtzle, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Government has laid down an amendment to the Framework Decision for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2020-2022, in the part relating to 2020. In this resolution, it proposes to the National Assembly that expenditure of the state sector be set at 23 billion 360 million, that expenditure of 12 billion 525 million be decided on for the state budget and that expenditure of 5 billion 930 million be fixed for the pension. These amounts are amounts that actually reflect the current situation. The current state of affairs in society and in the economy, economic and financial, and of course social conditions, is under the strong influence of the Coronavirus epidemic. In this context, of course, it is imperative to amend the decree setting out maximum expenditure. These expenditure increases by around €2 billion, in order to ensure social security for people and to ensure the return of the economy under the Corona and Epidemic Mitigation Budget. We are witnesses to data, we are witnessing analyses that indicate that the gross social product in Slovenia will decrease significantly by 8.1%, according to death forecasts, according to the European Commission's 7% forecast, the IMF predicts a fall of 6% of the gross social product. Here I would like to mention in particular the analysis of the European Commission. If we look closely at, including the comparison between countries, then we can find that the Eurogroup is subject to a fall in gross social product on average by 7.7%, for Slovenia 7%, which means that we are the upper part of the scale. In all countries, the gross social product will fall from about 5 to 10 %, even 11 %. This means, of course, that - and it also recognizes us from abroad - that the measures taken by this National Assembly are relatively successful. They are also relatively successful when we talk about the consequences of this epidemic in the health field. If we take a closer look at the European Commission's analysis, we can also find that in the following year, in 2021, the gross social product in Slovenia increased by 6.7%, 6.7% in fact means that it would then be a gross social product, somehow in 2019, or that it would somehow destroy this decline, 7% of the fall announced by the European Commission for 2020. As you can see from the European Commission's analysis, you can also see that the European Commission foresees a rapid recovery of the economy, the so-called V-letter, which has already been spoken of in this National Assembly and, of course, the rapid rise of the economy to further growth, employment and, of course, the normalisation of economic and financial matters, ensuring prosperity for people and, of course, ensuring them an adequate social situation. From this point of view, of course, it is still important that health-care measures are taken to the end and fully, because, after the new epidemic wave, I would, I will say, also undermine these predictions and could happen much worse. These figures and this increase in expenditure on the budget side are within the framework of the Fiscal Rule Act, by virtue of Article 12 of the Fiscal Rule Act, which allows for a derogation from the so-called classic fiscal rule, meaning that revenue is equal to expenditure. In 2020, expenditure will not be the same as revenue. Expenditure will be significantly higher by around 8.1 per cent of the gross social product. This actually means about 3 billion 600. From this point of view, the Government is obliged to propose to the National Assembly a plan to adjust these expenditure to medium or long-term revenues. This plan must be submitted by the Government to the Fiscal Council, the National Assembly and, of course, this plan will also be the subject of discussions in the National Assembly. However, the fact is that the Fiscal Council has also decided that it is not possible in such circumstances to provide a fiscal rule in such an economic and financial state in this basic basic fiscal rule, it is said that expenditure was the same as the revenue of the State budget. From this point of view, the opinion of the Fiscal Council, which has been submitted to the National Assembly, goes this way. It is also aimed at the failure of the Government to draw up a medium-term framework or a two-year or three-year expenditure framework. Here, of course, I must say that in these uncertain circumstances, when the unknown is extremely large, the government cannot give an appropriate plan for 2022, 2023 in particular from this point of view, because it is too unknown. Last but not least, I will also say that I will allow the European Commission, and we are not actually proposing documentation to the European Commission for the following years. The exceptional circumstances that have arisen and, of course, the coverage of the additional expenditure foreseen by this Decision will increase the State's debt. However, I have already talked about this in this National Assembly, and we estimate that this debt will increase to about 82.4 per cent of gross social product. This means, of course, that the debt will be greater, but in this case it is necessary and the comparison between the Member States shows that Slovenia will still be in the first half of the countries with regard to indebtedness, not among those most indebted. However, future and future economic growth will also provide opportunities for this percentage of public debt or public debt in gross social product to be reduced. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the National Assembly adopt an amendment to the Fiscal Framework Decision as tabled by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decree was addressed by the Committee on Finance. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u53	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 38th urgent meeting, on 6 May this year, the Finance Committee considered as its parent working body the Proposal for a Decision amending the Framework Decision on the preparation of the budgets of the State for the period 2020 to 2022 submitted by the Government to the Assembly for its adoption. Representatives of the Government, the Legislative and Legal Service of the Fiscal Council and the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development participated in the meeting of the Committee. During the course of business, qualified applicants have not tabled any amendments. In the beginning, the Minister of Finance presented the draft decision under consideration and the circumstances under which it arose. He explained that Article 12 of the Fiscal Rule Act allows for a derogation from the fiscal rule in the event of an unusual event such as the epidemic. The Minister stressed that the planned expenditure would help to protect human health and encourage the economy. They will also be important from the point of view of some of the most affected activities with an epidemic. Regarding the deficit that will arise in the state budget, he explained that it is necessary to replace it after the crisis. To this end, the government will draw up a programme and a budget rebalancing that will allow the public finances to be re-coordinated with the Fiscal Rule Act. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stated that the service was, in the light of its tasks, that the service had no comments on the proposal for a decision, only an editorial correction of Article 4 was needed. The President of the Fiscal Council explained that the Fiscal Council had seen the circumstances that made it possible to apply Article 12 of the Fiscal Rule Act. Regarding the measures, he said that these are similar to other countries facing the epidemic and that he pointed out potential risks. Problems may arise mainly in the separation of the urgent and normal use of resources and in the area of transparency of consumption. It is also important for the Fiscal Council to return to its previous state after the epidemic. The Director of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development presented some key points arising from the COVID-19 scenario. Among other things, it explained that the gross domestic product is expected to fall this year and that the subsequent recovery of the economy will depend on the scale of the epidemic and the measures taken. The volume of exports and imports and investments is expected to fall significantly, and private consumption is expected to be lower. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee presented their views on the proposal under consideration and the financial impact of the measures taken to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic. Certain Members expressed concern about the projected deficit in the state budget and the growth of the state debt. The discussion also expressed the view that responsible financial planning is the basis of each responsible economic policy, and it was also demonstrated that the desire for additional funds for certain groups and the concern about debt are mutually exclusive, and that, given the limited resources, it is not possible to demand both at the same time, especially in the light of the shortfalls on the revenue side of the State budget. Members and members of the Committee also asked the Minister some questions relating in particular to the use of funds, the provision of liquidity for public health institutions and possible changes to the fiscal rule. The Minister provided further clarifications on the issues raised in the debate, explaining that the Government will present a plan to normalise the situation in public finances at the time of the State budget's rebalancing. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the draft decree and adopted them. As no amendments have been tabled to the draft decree on the working body, the Committee on Finance proposes to the National Assembly that the Proposal for a Decision amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2020 to 2022 should be adopted [[End of discussion warning sign]] in the text presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u54	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the parliamentary groups. Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Vice-President, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. At the global level, the Coronavirus pandemic has caused an unprecedented health and economic crisis in recent history and the consequences are already strongly reflected in all areas of our lives, all over the world, of course, in Slovenia. We can justifiably argue that this epidemic has already caused economic shock and significant negative consequences for economic activity in our country. According to recent forecasts by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, gross domestic product will fall by as much as 8.1% this year. Such situations certainly represent exceptional circumstances and, in addition to health measures to combat the spread of the virus and to deal with the consequences of the epidemic, exceptional measures have been taken to preserve jobs, to help the economy and individuals. All of this, of course, has significant implications for public finances. That is why today we are adopting an amendment to the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the country with which this year, which is the current year 2020, exceptionally allows for an increase in the ceiling for these expenditure. And this increase represents a legally permissible deviation from the fiscal rule due to exceptional circumstances resulting from the epidemic. This is an exceptional event which the state cannot influence and is also accompanied by the assessment of the Fiscal Council of 18 March 2020. The European Commission has also identified the epidemic as an exceptional event, allowing for a temporary derogation from the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact at the level of the European Union as a whole. Our country will make full use of the flexibility afforded by the European fiscal framework precisely to make it easier for Member States to cope with the economic consequences of the epidemic. The decline in economic activity and other negative effects on our entire social life require a strong response and concrete action. Nevertheless, we are of course aware that, after these exceptional circumstances have ceased, we will have to make every effort to establish the normal functioning of the country and make every effort to ensure the well-being of citizens and to make the economy recover as quickly as possible. We are in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre and will always stress the importance of economic management of public finances. However, under the circumstances, we are aware of the importance of the right priorities – that at this time it is necessary to help our people and the economy, so we will support the amendments to this Decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Luka Mesec will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u57	Thank you very much and very much. Now, with the revision of the budget decree, in the context of the 2020 budget, we are essentially taking the first step towards the 2020 budget rebalancing. In the grave, as the Minister himself has said, we are talking about that the maximum amount of expenditure in billions of euros from the current framework for all four budgets, from 21 and a half billion, is increasing to approximately. 23 billion 630 million, which means that there will be a little more than 2 billion funds in state finances. Of course, we support this in Levica because we have exceptional circumstances and measures against the crown of the virus will stop. It is necessary to help citizens and the economy – both during the epidemic and in the economic recession forecasting after it. The second reason why there is a slightly more controversial reason why the budget rebalancing is needed is that the Government has de facto abolished the 2020 budget. [[…]] In fact, Janša's government, on the day of its performance, said on 13 March 2020, with a decree, retained the implementation of the budget for all direct budgetary users, where it set a 30 % proportional reduction in spending rights. In fact, in the case of subsidies for transfers, non-profit organisations and institutions, domestic, current and other transfers, and so on, it saved cca. EUR 400 million transferred to the general budget reserve with a view to providing funds to contain the epidemic. In Levica, we were critical of this step because we were defending the view that saving during the crisis was not appropriate. [[…]] Saving between the crisis and the projected economic recession is further deepening, as we are taught by countless lessons from the past European decade. That is why we have advocated that the country should not squander investment, not to squander transfers, but to provide the funds, the basic means of combating the crisis, with the debt being issued. Whatever. After a good week, on 20 March, the government brought the Law on Public Finance Interventions into the National Assembly, which further extended this step on 13 March. Now these measures were no longer limited to 45 days or until the adoption of the 2020 budget balance, but to the adoption of the balance sheet. And this law gave the government unlimited powers to redistribute spending rights in the country's 2020 budget, which effectively means that the budget has been abolished and the government has a budget as a framework set by the National Assembly. The Government currently has unlimited powers to redistribute this law. Now, with the expected rebalancing, of course, the situation will return to normal. We'll get a new framework that will be approved by the National Assembly. This framework will be about 2 billion more than it was before. As we say, we support this part with two substantive comments. Well, if I go in line. First, I would comment on the health treasury, i.e. in, health resources remain practically at the same level as they were before and here are several problems. The first is that the government ignores the sensitivity of the health treasury to economic shocks. In fact, contrary to the pension allowance, the health department has no budgetary coverage. Thus, if there is a lack of money there, he has not paid for the services of the budget such as that of the pension fund. Secondly, the government has quite a macho relationship with the health department. In fact, with the first anti-korona package, it even sought to impose additional burdens on the medical treasury when it proposed that compensation for hospital absences from the first day forward would be covered by the ZZS — otherwise, according to the current legislation, compensations should be covered by the employer for 30 days, and then this would be transferred to the health department. Fortunately, however, the collapse of the medical bills has prevented, by providing that funds for hospital absences will be returned from the budget to the Institute of Health Insurance, but this does not solve all problems at income level. One problem I have already pointed out on the committee is that there are currently about 300,000 workers and workers on hold. Reports of health insurance benefits will be paid at 80 % of the worker’s basic salary, which means that health contributions will also be charged from this base. So the base will be 20% lower than before the crisis, and that, according to our quick calculations, for the Health Insurance Office can mean a monthly drop in income of more than 50 million euros, which is not a negligible amount. The second thing the government will overlook is that health institutions will also be in crisis. In fact, at the time of the epidemic, they do not carry out their activities, except where the level of urgency on the consignments is urgent or very quickly and according to existing laws, public health establishments receive paid services only after they implement the programme. They have not now implemented this programme and therefore are in danger of losing their income. Another problem is that public health institutions will also have additional costs due to the coronavirus, for example by purchasing the necessary protective equipment, by purchasing equipment for the care of the seriously ill, additional costs due to the increased burden of employees after the crisis, overtime and so on, and all together, is that we are likely to face a malnourished medical treasury this year. This is also pointed out by the Director General of the Institute of Health Insurance, Marjan Sušelj, who, at the economic college on the round table and also in an interview with the officer of the evening, said that this would probably require two baskets of rights and had already pointed in the direction in which it would go. Thus, dental services, services related to vision, non-emergency transport, hospital care nutrition, etc. would be excluded from the basic basket of rights, which means that access to these services will no longer be a matter of health necessity, but will access these to do a matter of wallet thickness. Those who will not be able to afford professional services will be convicted of buying glasses instead of in the eyeglass on a gas station. Those who cannot afford dental services will help themselves. Not to mention that eating during hospital care would no longer be included in the basket of basic rights, but this is just the beginning. The plan of the Slovenian right, or the intention of the Slovenian right to form two baskets of health rights, is not new, this is their agenda for a long time, and this is also one of the points where we need to be careful during the crisis, that the undernourished health treasury, as indicated by the budget framework for the year, the budget balance we have before us, will not lead to the fact that the Institute of Health insurance, due to the lack of funds, will simply be forced to exclude certain rights from the basic basket and leave them to the market, meaning that we will receive very limited public health care, and that the victims of this will be the most vulnerable, who will simply not be able to pay certain services. Thus the commercialisation of health services begins, it is always at the beginning of the gap between the buyer and the operator. The aim is to increase control over the consumption of public institutions. They will say that this increases responsibility and autonomy, but in reality, responsibility, autonomy and the contraction of public spending occurs in a way that easily violates rights and creates two baskets. As a countermeasure, we therefore propose in Levica that it be simply introduced as is the case for the pension fund even in the case of health care if there is a shortage of money in the health allowance, the difference should cover the budget. This is the first comment on public health. The second comment is about the fiscal rule. Thus, if I am not mistaken, on 18 March, as at the level of the European Union, a suspension of the fiscal rule was adopted on 20 and 23 March, which means that Slovenia can temporarily withdraw from this rule and this has in fact allowed us to have two billion more in the budget than was envisaged. This enables, in fact, counter-crisis measures, which of course is to be welcomed. In Europe, the previous crisis has been tackled by savings, which has proved to be an absolutely wrong approach, even if we put it in the side of China or the United States. In the United States and China, the crisis in the previous crisis in 2008 was very stimulating, both monetary and fiscal, and the results were as follows. China is between 2008 and 2014, I do not think it has ever fallen below 8% of GDP growth. The funds invested in the economy allowed the extension of its train tracks from a thousand kilometres to 11 thousand kilometres, built so many hospitals and expanded their health system so much that coverage with health insurance spread from 30% of the population to 90%. It's like the U.S. Otherwise, it did not go into such drastic measures, but they solved the crisis more or less in 2009, when they had a minus 2% and a half economic growth, economic growth was already positive in 2010, and unemployment in the United States was below 10%. On the other hand, we had Europe, where we first saw the blockades, mainly by Germany, in order to establish a common European savings fund, the crisis that was primarily the crisis of the euro area and the banking system, then we saw the blockades in order to set up the euro bond system, which is said to be mutative [[?]] We had a long and, as a result, agenda on the part of some countries of the European Union that has reversed the cause and consequences of the crisis. The cause of the crisis, and that was clear to everyone, was the banking crisis. We just had a financial crisis in the Euro-Atlantic system. What Germany interpreted and also took over by the Slovenian governments was once again the loudest right, but it was not a crisis that banks would cook, but it was a crisis of irresponsible public fiscal policies in some countries leading Greece. In fact, there was more to the interpretation of the crisis. For years we have been monitoring the nature of the discredits, how some countries with irresponsible fiscal policies are supposed to accumulate huge debts, huge budgetary deficits, which now needs to be addressed through savings. That was the argument. The legal part was that in the legal framework we got the fiscal rules that they are, and here by Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz rightly called automatic destabilizers. Indeed, the beauty of the social state is not only in ensuring social security in the crisis, but, as we have seen, in the case of the United States, which I mentioned earlier, when economic growth fell there, when employment fell and, of course, a number of social protection mechanisms, unemployment benefits, the policy of their public food vouchers and so on, of course, were activated. But in the end, when they were doing economic calculations, they said that this was the real social policy of the country that activated the automatically stabilised economy and that about half the efforts needed to recover so quickly in 2009 or 2010. While we saw a similar situation in Europe in 2009 and 2010, fiscal hawks were activated, which were blamed for the crisis by the countries and said that public spending must be reduced, which means that these automatic stabilisers were being attacked in the form of unemployment benefits, in the form of social spending, in the form of any investment by the state, and this was to be put into fiscal rules. The results were as follows. In 2015, most euro area Member States had lower GDP than in 2007. Unemployment in the euro area remained above 10% on average in 2015. She's only been like that in America for a year. In the countries of the European South, unemployment is over 25% in the year, even 50% among young people. Some countries have permanently smothered their development models, permanently stifled their investment capacities, and Slovenia is in some ways part of this story. We didn't really dig out of the crisis until about there in 2014. From 2014 to 2020, however, we had more or less extensive growth, not quality growth, not growth, but growth, which would be conditioned by the development of new industries that would generate more added value and so on, but we went only into extensive growth. And part of this problem is, of course, fiscal rules. In Slovenia we have even a very rigid one that makes it impossible for the country to implement active development policies, while, of course, many others cannot because we are members of the euro area. Therefore, while we welcome now that the Slovenian right with the crown of crisis has also acknowledged that fiscal rules are questionable, otherwise the government is only problematic in the circumstances we have at present, but they are questionable in general. In fact, they are currently suspended and we can face this crisis against ZUJF, as Minister Shircelj calls it. But given the current mood in Europe, it shows that decision makers there – again I am talking mainly about Germany, the Netherlands, Austria and Finland – have not learned much from the previous crisis. Again we do not have Eurobonds, this is given from the table, the helicopter money was a promise that remained very much in the air and what the euro area Member States will get from the community, but in particular the possibility of a little cheaper loans that will have to be repaid. At the same time, there is renewed pressure in Europe to reactivate fiscal rules again slowly. And as we say, we have a very general fiscal rule in the constitution, it is said that public finances should be balanced in the medium term, which can be interpreted broadly enough to allow the development policy of the country, but we have an embedded formula in the Fiscal Rule Act, which is very restrictive and incredibly arbitrary. And as a counter-measure to keep Slovenia stable on the medium term, not just in 2020, we propose that we take this moment to delete this formula from the Fiscal Rule Act and replace it with more rules of life. This is our well-intentioned advice to all the political parties of this National Assembly, because I do not think any of us want a repetition in 2012 or 2013.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The position of the Nova Slovenija Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. The New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a regulation amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2020 to 2022. In this place, I would like to pay tribute to Minister Shirtzl and his team and, as a result, to the government, to the optimal assessment of what is actually ahead of us in the near future. We are at an extremely uncertain time when no solution can be found either in the best textbooks written by Nobel laureates. Perhaps in order to refresh the memory, April 2012, a good 8 years ago, this National Assembly ratified the so-called fiscal pact, which, inter alia, requires a medium-term balanced state budget or surplus, except in exceptional circumstances. So we've known for eight years that if exceptional circumstances arise, which is the indisputable epidemic, then we have a little bit more freedom here, if I may say so, as far as compliance with fiscal rules is concerned. It took a long time and it was not until May 2013 that we changed Article 148 of the Constitution. This support was exceptional, I think 78 votes in favour and this amendment to Article 148 of the Constitution then allowed or required the adoption by the National Assembly of a two-thirds majority of the Fiscal Rule Act as well. It took a long time to get there, until July 2015. And now to a specific situation. The COVID-19 epidemic unquestionably represents exceptional circumstances when, in accordance with Article 12 of the Fiscal Rule Act, a temporary – I emphasise – derogation from the medium-term balance of public finances is made possible. In such situations, large-scale and multi-stage fiscal policy action is both appropriate and necessary. The effectiveness of the measures is enhanced if they are properly targeted, timely, read fast and simple. Due to their scale, full reviews should be carried out and, in terms of the sustainability of public finances, the provisional ones should be duly placed in a credible medium-term framework. Ladies and gentlemen, Slovenia entered the crisis after years of relatively high economic growth, with the surplus of the state sector, but with a higher debt of the country than before the financial crisis. At the same time, economic growth has slowed down prior to the outbreak, more than expected, and fiscal policy has been misdirected in the last two years. The effectiveness of the measures will therefore depend on whether the current crisis will only become temporary, whether it will become structural, with long-term negative consequences for the well-being and sustainability of public finances. Colleagues and colleagues, according to public surveys, polls of about 80 percent of respondents answer that they agree with the Slovenian Government or the National Assembly. 80 percent. That's a great deal. After reporting on relevant foreign media, we are at the world summit as a country after dealing with the new coronavirus epidemic, and we must be proud and grateful, first of all, to our citizens and citizens who have respected and respected the measures, many times very difficult and, of course, we must be grateful to all those who have taken care of our health and our lives in the first battle lines. The economic situation is extremely uncertain, as I said in the introduction, so the forecast is extremely ungrateful. All current available projections indicate a significant decline in economic activity this year. Uncertainties are even more than usual related to the assessment of long-term economic growth and thus to the assessment of the production gap level. It is unknown whether the current shock will only be temporary or to what extent the effects of the epidemic on the contribution of individual production factors to the economic potential will be more pronounced over the longer term. If we look at the data of the European Commission, because it is perfectly normal for us to look at and compare ourselves with the Member States of the European Union, because we have been members of the European Union for 16 years and we are part of the common European market, and if we look at the European Commission's forecasts for Slovenia, the European Commission is forecasting a 7 per cent decline this year. But what is encouraging, and this must push us forward, it must give us some optimism and will for our work, it is encouraging that the same European Commission of Slovenia, why, due to timely and effective measures, is already forecasting a 6.7 per cent growth next year. So one very intense and very quick reflection, as we call it. So this is some projection that we believe in New Slovenia that we can achieve if we are smart. If we do not have at the beginning of each meeting of the working body of the National Assembly, at the beginning of each meeting of the National Assembly one hour irrelevant, excuse me, nonsense procedural complications. That's the problem. If we are smart, we are here to work for the well-being of our people, then this reflection can happen in the next year very intensively, very effectively, at 6.7%. And now, with regard to the draft stability programme 2020, this foresees a country's deficit of around 8% of GDP this year, we are a little more pessimistic here than the European Commission predicts this year. Lower revenues contribute mainly due to lower levels of economic activity and even higher expenditure due to the operation of automatic stabilisers and measures to prevent the consequences of the epidemic. The country's debt is expected to exceed 80 % of GDP by the end of 2020. In particular, the effectiveness of measures to maintain economic potential, in addition to the institutional framework and measures at the level of the euro area currently contributing to the maintenance of favourable funding conditions, could contribute to the sustainability of the increased debt. What I would like to stress in the end is what is crucial for New Slovenia. We have to make it possible to make investments. Due to [[End of discussion warning sign]] The rigidity of some state institutions today awaits some 400 projects, on average worth €1 million, because they need some consensus and so on and it waits and waits and waits. So we have EUR 400 million on the table of investments, but because of bureaucratic obstacles, they can't just start and we have to change that. [[End of discussion warning sign]] Therefore, the economy, if it is a strong economy, will also be heavily financed by the social state and the best social policy is the one that gives jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Your Honor, thank you very much for your word. The amendment of the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2020-2022 is a result of the exceptional circumstances created by the COVID-19 epidemic. In such exceptional situations, national fiscal rules as well as those resulting from the Stability and Growth Pact at European Union level allow for a temporary derogation from the rules. The condition for that derogation is an exceptional event which the State cannot affect and has significant consequences for public finances and serious economic downturn. As said in the accounts of the COVID-19 epidemic and the mitigation of its effects on the economy and citizens, the state of public finances in Slovenia will deteriorate greatly. The COVID-19 epidemic caused a major economic shock, leading to a deficit of at least €3.7 billion in the state budget instead of €500 million. This represents approximately 8 % of gross domestic product. We have already committed 3.5 billion euros this year. There is still a 2.5 billion debt. This means that public debt will rise from the current 66% of gross domestic product to a record 82.4%, or from 31 billion to 37 billion, representing almost 19 000 euros per capita in Slovenia. Hence, the answer to the one most indebted to Slovenia is clear, John Janša. In the SAB party, we know what it's like to save the country and people. In 2013, we successfully rescued Slovenia from the three and the severe economic crisis, without interference with pensions, wages and social benefits. Will that be the case in the time of the government of Janez Janša? Unlike the SDS party in the SAB party to Slovenia's enormous debt, we will not be critical, as we know that it is simply necessary to do so in order to save the country and the economy. Who will help people if not the country? In the SAB party, we are critical of the relationship and are holding SDS parties, who in 2013 and 2014 called the Troika in our country and reiterated every day that the high public debt for Slovenia is a disaster. Member of the SDS, Zvonko Černač, said at the time of the interview of Minister of Finance Uroš Čufar at the end of 2013: "The country has never been as indebted in history as it will be in 2014 and 2015 for 12.3 billion euros. In 2014 alone, Slovenia will be in charge of a little less than 10 billion. Pahor was an apprentice in debt, compared to Alenka Bratušek.« Chernačev's fellow Member, Jože Tanko, was also critical of the task. According to his assessment in 2014, indebtedness was a key problem for young people who would bear the key burden of paying debts. “The government of Alenka Bratušek owes itself three times faster than the worst of Pahor’s government.” said Member Tanko, at the interpretation of Chufar in the National Assembly. The country's debt will be the highest in 2020, and the deficit of the state budget is very high. This, as it is said, will amount to at least 8.1% of the gross domestic product. We can understand all of this in the SAB party, because it was imperative to take measures quickly and effectively to combat the spread of infection, but we cannot understand that the Government has not explained in the documents it has prepared how it intends to resolve this difficult situation. Thus, there is no forecast for the following years in the Stability Programme and in the Framework Decision for the preparation of the national budgets for 2020 to 2022, they have only changed the data for 2020 and for the following years data are simply not available. The SAB therefore rightly asks us the question, which way will Slovenia go? We can expect a ZUJF No. 2 and a re-reduction of salaries and pensions? What will happen to the country and the economy if we reintroduce such strict restrictive measures to contain the epidemic? Unfortunately, you didn't give us any answers, a respected coalition, so we're going to object in the SAB party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Now, before I give the word forward. Mr. Reich, the information you gave me that I said still holds. The second thing, your government, back then, has decommissioned savers and the owners of subordinated instruments, at almost a billion euros and something else, right, the debt costs were about three times higher than they would have been if they had come to Slovenia's Troika. Now let's get on with it. Robert Polnar has the floor to present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u63	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In the market economy, the information role of macroeconomic strategies, forecasts and policies is crucial. The Government, the Central Bank and other institutional authorities shall communicate their objectives, foundations, management parameters, system framework to stakeholders. Good, timely and reliable information is the key to business adaptation, lower transaction costs, optimal economic results. A successful economy needs two, competition and flexibility on the one hand, social sustainability and inclusion on the other. This is a reference framework within which the Government and all stakeholders, both in the European Union and in Slovenia, should work. The decision on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State for the period 2020 to 2022, the amendments of which are the subject of today's treatment, was adopted on 24 April 2019, with the projected growth of 3.1%, for this year. On the basis of the latest forecast by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, economic growth is expected to fall by 8.1%. The depth of the decline in GDP will depend mainly on the duration of the epidemic and the recovery of the international environment. The UMAR forecast is based on the assumption that the recovery of the economy will begin in June and foresees a very large decline in exports and imports, in reality by more than 19 %. Investments are expected to fall by 18 and a half % and private consumption by 3%. National consumption is expected to rise by 3% in 2020, contributing to the reduction in economic growth more than in the previous crisis, when the 2009 state consumption has risen by 2 and a half percent. In the Desus Group, it is important to express our commitment to projections of the movement of macroeconomic aggregates prepared by domestic and foreign institutions. They produce their projections at a time when it is not known how long the pandemic will last, how deep the crisis will be, how economic activity will be affected by the measures applied and implemented by countries and what the future interaction of global economies will be. Although these projections are slightly more accurate than looking at a crystal ball, not much. Economics is not an exact science, even though it pretends to be. If the economy were exact, there would be no significant difference in the above-mentioned forecasts. The decline in economic growth this year is comparable to the decline in economic growth in 2009, which was 7 and a half%, and this is the only comparison between these two periods. A smaller decline in GDP than in some other economies is no proof of the strength of an individual economy. When such major global crises occur, the movement of gross domestic product does not depend on the power of the economy, but mainly on its structure and dependence on the global market. Countries where the main economic sector is tourism or countries that are major exporters of both raw materials and industrial products will see the biggest decline in GDP. Germany, the largest export market in Slovenia, could fall 7% this year. This is due to the high volume of industrial exports, in particular cars throughout the economic structure of the country. Multiple effects are unpredictable in this respect. The proposed amendments to the decree are necessary due to exceptional circumstances that raise the ceiling on expenditure of the state sector, the state budget, expenditure of municipalities and expenditure on pension funds. The expenditure of the state sector is rising by €2 billion and €150 million. The increase in expenditure in the sector is mainly due to an increase in the expenditure of the state budget, which is increasing by 2 billion and 75 million euros, to a total of 12 billion and 525 million. Thus, the share of the state budget expenditure in total expenditure rises to 53% of all expenditure in the state sector. In the basic budget, this percentage was 48, 7. There is also an increase of €85 million in pension spending in 2020, €5 billion and €930 million and €20 million in municipal budgets in €2 billion and €340 million. Ladies and gentlemen, this crisis we are facing today could be greater than a major depression in the 1930s, but certainly from a major recession 12 years ago, but it is neither the first nor the second. Therefore, different economic policy measures are needed. It is important, however, to identify the nature of the crisis, in other words, what caused it. In comparison, during the great recession of a good decade before, economic policy makers in most countries acted as if it were a variant of internal shock on the side of the offer and entrusted the burden of stabilisation to monetary authorities. This was not in line with the fact that the financial crisis was the most internal shock on the demand side, so it happened that there was no recurrence of major depression, but recovery was slow and incomplete. How can we determine what kind of crisis we are dealing with? During identification procedures, we can use an assessment that individual economic policy measures could have on the desired impact of future economic developments. Take, for example, Keynesian advice on increased public investment with the expected effects of increased production and employment growth. This is impossible because it is necessary to reduce social contacts and it is not recommended that workers be exposed to additional risks to get sick. Suppose we follow the monetary advice and increase liquidity – even so it is not possible to increase production and reduce unemployment. It is therefore not an internal shock, either on the supply side or on the demand side, but an external shock, especially on the supply side and in part demand. It is significant that this shock should be temporary, and it is not a matter of permanent changes in the structure of production or of permanent changes in external trade relations. It is therefore necessary not only to maintain liquidity but to preserve businesses, employment and income as much as possible. The fiscal authority must assume obligations to employees to pay their salaries if employers cannot do so. This is how companies and consequently banks are kept. Businesses and all other economic operators need to be maintained not only in financial terms but also in legal and production terms, because the advantages of collective experience are otherwise lost, which are particularly important in terms of productivity. Members of the DeSUS Group note that the current Slovenian authorities have coordinated and complementaryly carried out the overlap of all the measures just mentioned. By decree, we are also changing the balance of the state sector and the balance of the state budget. Thus, the country's target balance and the State budget target balance were negative, -8.1%. Both of these deficits were partly due to a fall in income at the time of the decline in economic growth. Discretionary measures under the European methodology at income and expenditure level will contribute to the country's 4.35% deficit for this year, which is little more than half of the country's projected deficit. As a result of the decline in economic growth, the country's lower revenues are projected for a good billion and 300 million euros less than in 2019 - realisation in 2019 was 21 billion and 227 million, with 19 billion and 925 million planned for this year. The lower revenues are mainly the result of the planned drop in income from value added tax, income tax and corporate income tax. The country's debt will increase this year from the current 31 billion and 744 million euros to 37 billion and 556 million euros. The share of gross domestic product will be slightly lower than in 2015 when it amounted to 82,6 % of gross domestic product. However, it must be made clear: a large budget deficit will be financed with debt, which has been created and will continue to arise as a result of the consequences of the epidemic. The deficit is indeed inconvenient, but it is not lost. And so, ladies and gentlemen, we need to ask ourselves what the perspectives are. Nothing's gonna be like it was before. It can't be true. Everything will be the same as before - not likely either. It will be the same as before, only to make things worse — that is possible. It is also possible that it will be better, certainly not impossible, but it depends most on how we behave now that the epidemic continues. The epidemic brings uncertainty. When everything travels that it's impossible to separate meaning from nonsense. On the one hand, there are different versions of conspiracy theory, on the other hand, that it is actually a punishment that we deserve. So we could say climate change to the extent that people act, but epidemics and pandemics are, if we want to speak in this way, nothing more than an expression of nature’s indifference to our human existence and existence. The main objective in dealing with the epidemic — this or any other — should be a perfect recovery because it is a fleeting phenomenon, the consequences of which can be affected so that the final damage is as minor as possible, and then life must be restored - which has stopped and not changed, but life during the epidemic has certainly not been destroyed. It is clear, though, that after the restoration, it will be as good as it could have been before it. In uncertainty, everything can turn out to be a cause and all comparisons can only be informative. For example, the comparison of the pandemic with war is completely wrong. In both cases, it is an emergency, but it is increasing into war society and it is decreasing during the epidemic. The objective of the war is to impose the will and expose the new state, the aim of the repression and suppression of the epidemic is to heal things back to their former state. And here they play a decisive role in government policy, particularly structural, developmental and regional policy. Then there are implementation projects with the largest economic multipliers and social promoters. We need to recall several times the chewed-up housing and energy savings, the second track, the third development axis and the construction of homes for the elderly. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to have to create happiness. Unfortunately, the accident comes on its own. Members of the Desus Group will unanimously support the decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2020-2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u65	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us a decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the State sector's budgets for the period 2020-2022. The amendment of the decree is only for 2020, due to the exceptional circumstances created by the Coronavirus epidemic. In such exceptional situations, both national fiscal rules and those resulting from the Stability and Growth Pact at European level allow for a temporary derogation from the rules. Slovenia will make full use of the flexibility afforded by the European Union's fiscal framework to make it easier for Member States to manage the Coronavirus epidemic and its consequences. The collapse of economic activity and other effects on society, the Coronavirus epidemic requires a strong response from the Government. Under the given circumstances, the government has already taken measures to combat the spread of the virus and to control the consequences of the epidemic in health, education and education and public life, including the closure of non-essential activities and, in the next step, strongly supports citizens and the economy. The set of measures is a collection of several intervention laws approved in the Government covering job conservation measures, improving the social situation of people, helping self-employed people to maintain the operation and liquidity of businesses, and helping research projects to combat the epidemic. As a result, the government changes and introduces changes only for 2020, as the preparation of medium-term changes is completely inadequate at the moment due to uncertainty. A positive opinion on the proposal to amend the Decision on the preparation of the budget for 2020 by 2022 has also been given by the Fiscal Council, which at the same time agrees that the declaration of the epidemic is an unusual event which is in line with the Fiscal Rule Act and allows the application of exceptional circumstances. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the amendment of the decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Andre Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u67	Thank you for your word, chairman. Decision on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the next two years. This is an appropriate but very dry address, which most voters say nothing, so it is appropriate to translate and say more plastic. The document, which is to be confirmed today, brings the historic expansion of the budgetary framework, an increase of more than 2 billion expenditure. Instead of one per cent of the budget surplus adopted by the Government of Marjan Šarc, 8 per cent of the deficit is foreseen. Yeah. You're hearing right. 8% deficit. Given our interest in today's debate, we have the feeling that we are going to do this quickly. Dear colleagues from the coalition led by the President of the National Assembly, you have measured the time by discussing some more than three hours in this document, which will have historical implications for Slovenia. Nice. And more clearly, while broadening the budgetary framework, at the same time tighten the framework for democracy. Or if you want, re-establish the debate framework and the supervisory role of Members of Parliament over the government. But it's obviously a democracy your way. Some of the arguments cited by both the Government and the Fiscal Council are, however, powerful to accept. For example, the epidemic is an exceptional circumstance that allows for a temporary deviation from the medium-term balance of public finances. The need to act quickly and help the widest possible circle of people and businesses. There is no doubt that the State interventionist was needed, even necessary. If we have saved banks in the last 5 billion-dollar crisis, it is right, fair and fair to save people, businesses, or jobs this time. The point is, there's no doubt about it. Whether your way to this goal is the right one is another. Whatever decision you make today, you will vote. You will vote on 8% of the budget deficit. In doing so, let us not overlook the warning of Death that, with further tightening measures, this year's decline in economic growth could be up to 15%. And if we add all the enormous debts and the increase in public debt to 82.4% of GDP at the end of the year, the LMŠ Group believes that instead of at least the question is what follows. I deliberately repeat, with so much debt and so much increase in public debt, it is incumbent on the Government to give some clear answers, which unfortunately we have not received at the Committee on Finance's meeting. Thus, the answers to how we will rehabilitate or restart the economy after the epidemic has ended. This answer should be given primarily to people who do not know what lies ahead. Tell them whether there will be a need for savings, according to a forecast of 8% of the decline in economic growth, cuts are promising. When I asked the Finance Committee, are you writing the ZUJF 2 like the 2012 one? Will you take it and to whom? So we're looking at social woodenism, so you're going to be more socially weak than you're going to leave to yourself? Will you at some point start following the free market mantra that regulates itself? Whose shoulders this time? The first stage of the fight against the virus is because of the excellent response of public health and responsible behaviour of people of plants rather than ending. I think we all feel the same way about health care and people, not the government. The government will take credit when and especially if it prevents social victims who will be measured in the number of failed companies, in the number of closed espies, in the number of lost jobs. These numbers will depend on whether it will be a government victory or a government defeat, which will in fact defeat people. Today we decide to extend the common framework to four cash registers. We know how to charge them with taxes and contributions. That is why we are particularly interested in the LMŠ in how much taxes and contributions will be paid in the future. We are interested in how you will solve tourism as a sector with pronounced multiplier effects. There's no action yet. There are no answers to people's fates. How many will land at the employment office because you are too late for tourism measures. How much money will eventually run out of municipalities if companies are unable to obtain guarantees because the conditions are so complicated and non-lifelike? What will be the decline in public health and education funds? How will you re-establish the congress, fair and event activity that had to close the doors and likely close them as the last. We still do not have any answers to continue to be indebted. What about borrowing through the purchase of government bonds by a central bank that may remain on the balance sheet for a very long time? How will you do your duty? You're planning structural reforms, and which ones? Instead of clear answers, the finance minister at the committee meetings offers us silence or repeats the unconvincing mantra of how Slovenia has remained alone and a series of flossules as well, we will improve the conditions for the economy by debarcing procedures and reducing administration. All of this raises doubts, and we are rightly concerned. And there is something else about the government's attitude towards the supervisory role of Parliament, which I mentioned at the outset. You are seriously delaying a report in which or in which you should inform the Commission for the supervision of public finances of the right you have enacted, namely that you are free and unlimitedly redistributing the rights of budgetary spending. We're wondering when we're gonna get this report. To this day, we don't know how you spend public money. I assume you're avoiding reporting. Why do you only know? Dear representatives of the Government, despite your criticism at the expense of the rebalancing you even gave to the Constitutional Court, we have left you public finances in an extremely good condition. Even you, Mr. Finance Minister, admitted that to the hiring. We understand that the country is in a difficult situation, but start to respect the Parliament, which has a particularly important role to play in controlling public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u69	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Minister, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament, good afternoon! In the exceptional circumstances in which we are in, it has become clear, of course, that the limits of the fiscal rule will temporarily no longer apply. The consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic will require exceptional financial contributions from all countries. Budget spending must be increased. However, the current procedures suggest that this should start with a transparent determination of the maximum total amount of expenditure, which is otherwise fixed for each budget envelope for two years in advance. This is the first step of the new government towards budgeting or budget rebalancing. In view of all that has been revealed in these days in the way this government spends money, it is quite sad that this is its most transparent budgetary step so far. In all the cases so far, the government spent money first, and then explained quite poorly what had been done with it. The proposed government raises public spending by two billion and 150 million euros. This should include spending 160 million for this year's planned surplus left by the previous Government. The first indicative price of anti-Korona measures is so well known and, with very vague assumptions, up to three billion additional consumption this year. Thus, in 2020, 8.1 per cent of the surplus would have a government deficit, which is a good half of what was recorded in 2013 at the time of bank recovery, when it was 14.7 per cent. The draft Stability Pact, which serves as a basic explanation for the measures, is the first written document that contains assessments of the financial consequences of anti-Korona measures, which should already be in the context of the legislation, but which the Government cites in the proportion of GDP, not in the absolute number, so their price is still unclear. From the accompanying graphs in the draft Stability Pact, we conclude that the Government is operating under the assumption that the economic downturn will be about half as severe as it was in the financial crisis. They are also very optimistic about the recovery forecast. They account for 3.5% growth in the second half of 2020. In view of the realistic forecasts that come from all relevant international institutions, the contraction will be higher, longer recovery and growth will be much slower. In view of all of this, we can assess that insufficient funds are being lost in view of the expected consequences which the Government underestimates in our view. In the same breath and in view of their current mode of operation, however, this money is much too much to allow the Government to redistribute it itself and without strict control over the budget which was suspended last month by law. The attached document is of all things that we have received so far the most exact, but it is still far from a true assessment of the consequences and the means needed to effectively deal with the epidemic. Because of all the above, we cannot vote for the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u70	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decree. Andrea Zabret, Marko Bandelli, Igor Peček, Matjaž Han, listed only the first four. Before I give my word to anyone, the representative of the proposed Minister of Magi will be given the floor. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Vice President. I think that, following the presentation of the views of the groups of Members, some questions and some doubts and some of the fears expressed here by some of the groups of Members should be answered. Firstly, we have not spoken here and I have not spoken of any other ZUJF, but I believe that a number of members of the group are predicting this other ZUJF. Otherwise, I don't know on what and how, based on past events, based on so many and so many years ago. It should be borne in mind that, in view of the past 30 years in the field of economics and finance, there has been a number of ZUJFs. And here it's just about, I'll say, some kind of intimidation that right now, I'm talking about right now doesn't have any real bases. The second thing I would like to say, of course, is that there is also fear about the reduction of some health insurance rights. Of course, I will not comment here on some of the words presented by the Director of the Health Insurance Institute as I understood on some round table at the Faculty of Economics. I don't even know if these summaries were accurate or not. However, the Department of Health Insurance concluded this year with 50 million plus. I agree that the situation also for the operation of health insurance, the Health Insurance Office, is now different, that on the one hand there is higher expenditure or costs, as you wish, in relation to expenditure relating to the epidemic, covered by this budget. And how much money has actually gone from the budget to the Department of Health Insurance. Of course, it is expected that the Institute of Health Insurance will also monitor the current needs for health services and, in particular, adapt this policy. This is also expected, of course, from the director, who explains the collapse of the basket and so on. But we don't know on what basis. When we talk about the fiscal rule and when we talk about what this fiscal rule actually means and when we actually encourage it, I will say more spending and more expenditure than we actually deserve, it is necessary to make it very clear that we are hiding these higher expenditure by borrowing and on the one hand some of us are reading this debt to the Government, on the other hand again, I will say, welcome these higher expenditure. However, every euro has to be paid. No lunch is free. And of course, the shift from a fiscal rule to a normal time actually means a derogation from this constitutional principle and, on the other hand, in economic terms, it means that these debts will also have to be paid and will have to be paid with interest. Even some information about how much we owed, I already apologize to the Vice-President for repeating this year's debt of 1.7 billion, but there was no crisis, and then we owed and repaid a debt of 1.7 billion in this year's debt, and we additionally owed ourselves, of course, 3.3 billion more, and I have already said that several times, but it seems that this needs to be done again because these words are simply converted or not fully said. So, from this point of view, we will also be in charge of debt policy, we will be in charge of responsible financial policy, and we need to know something, on the one hand, we owe ourselves, for now, on relatively favourable terms, on the other hand, of course, we are also paying off debts. So, from this point of view, of course, that's what I'm saying. Look, now, I understand the tendency of some of the messages, but the budget reserve was, when we took over the government and when the epidemic was predicted, empty, 9 million. If I hadn't actually centralised public finances here and dedicated them to providing equipment and that they could have provided appropriate services, then if this hadn't happened, people would probably be in a very, very bad situation and probably there would be a lot more fatalities and we've actually prevented it. So here was what we got from the previous government in the budget reserve, see, extremely little, in fact, if from a financial point of view, the government here was not prepared for such a crisis. For this reason, once again, this government has begun to operate in the economic field immediately, the following day. Before that, the previous Government did not take one measure in the financial field. We immediately dropped our taxes, we immediately put down our credits, we immediately started with companies being able to submit their annual reports later, we immediately assured, in the next week, in one week, we provided a guarantee for a smaller part of the loans, later for another part of the loans, and so on. Sorry, nothing was done in this area when the epidemic was declared. At the Ministry of Finance, if you wish, no draft single document has been prepared in this regard. If, because of this, simply, if this National Assembly adopts a law within a week, after the new government has started, no one can say, in my opinion, that we were too late and here I sat for the first week, with two new laws. So, from this point of view, it is simply necessary to say that everything is evident with dates, hours and so on and this decree, which we are talking about today, yes, means about 2 billion more expenditure and also gives a framework for additional debt - this has already been adopted in some law - also provides a framework for additional debt, but so far we have committed as much as it has been stipulated in the Law on the Enforcement of the Budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Andre Zabret has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. We all agree, as has been said several times, that State intervention measures and assistance are clearly necessary at this time and are also the result of today's rise in expenditure in the decree. However, this is very important, and we keep this in mind in all committees and sessions, how economically we will spend this money, where and to whom we will give it, and above all from which resources we will receive it. In fact, no one wants Slovenia to be irresponsibly indebted to succeeding generations and to endanger public finances. The rise in the expenditure ceiling that we are accepting today can be said to be, as we call it, sweet problems. The point is what's on the other hand, and that's a minus in the public cash register and the consequence of that. We didn't get any answers about all of this, at least not the real ones. The government has no strategy on how it will settle the debt, how we will do what happens after the crown, after the end of the crown of the epidemic, which it should have. [[…]] I wonder where all of a sudden such immobility is, where are all the restrictions that we discussed a few months ago, when the surplus in the budget was a major problem, a breach of commitments made and almost a breakdown of public finances. If we remember when SDS and Nova Slovenija gave a constitutional review of the balance sheet with budgetary surplus. Instead of a 1% budget surplus, the decree we are considering today provides for 8% of the budget deficit. It is called a huge minus and thus increases the expenditure of the state budget for a good two billion or one fifth. In its opinion, the Fiscal Council recalls the doubts about the credibility of the assessments, the formal non-compliance of the two documents submitted with the requirements on medium-term planning, the shift from the revised medium-term planning, as the Government will not adopt a national development policy programme. I believe that this opinion needs to be taken very seriously. I therefore ask again whether this Government does not have a fiscal strategy to break the law from the requirement of the Public Finance Act to prepare a state development policy programme and a medium-term fiscal strategy? This depends on the future of the Slovenian people, and it is not worthwhile for the coalition to discuss this today. And that's why today is an even more graphic statement from my colleague Horvath, when he said that he congratulated the government on its optimal assessment of what lies ahead for us in the future. I am interested in where these assessments are, namely, we ask the Minister all the time, asking what the measures will be and how the epidemic will follow and how we will repay the debt. So I also have another important question for the minister to tell people what will follow after the outbreak. Is there going to be a need for saving? What does the forecast of an 8% decline in economic growth mean? Are the cuts promising? Where will all the money that is displayed today be spent in 8.1% of the budget minus? Why are we asking that? In particular, because it is still fresh and, above all, a bitter memory of the period 2004-2008, when it was spent disproportionately with income and debt, leaving the country completely unprepared for the crisis. It is also a fresh and bitter memory for 2012, i.e. the time of the ZUIF, when it was also cut in public investment, which has only deepened the recession. The next question I did not get an answer to on the Committee on Finance. In view of the projected deficit in the State Treasury of 8,1 GDP, Covid measures of a temporary nature are foreseen at 4,4 %. The remaining half of this debt is due to regular expenditure. And if we look at Slovenia's GDP, it means that in the Covid Stability Pact, only 2 billion measures are foreseen, so this 4.4 is 2 billion. But if we look at the financial effect of only the crown package 1 without novelties, the effect is the financial effect of crown 1.3 billion. There's something wrong here, and I'm just wondering, where did you get this big minus all of a sudden? A number of questions remain unanswered, especially how will you prevent the shock of demand? In what way will you encourage consumption? How will you start production? What will happen when the epidemic is over and we will have to follow the fiscal rule again and approach the fiscal objective, as the Fiscal Council also points out. We all know that once we wake up from this, we'll have to pay for it. As I have already mentioned, I would not like the saying “problems are growing as close to the goal as possible” to be considered to be Slovenia to a large extent. I have asked quite a few questions for which I hope to have the answers, especially perhaps not only Members of Parliament are interested in these answers, but especially citizens and citizens who are probably accompanying us at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The word is Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u75	Thank you for your word, President. I can't help but relate to your words after my fellow Reich's debate, because I would warn you that absolutely nothing is true, what you then stated in the end and said to him that it would be better to be and that it would come to us a threesome. A lie, a lie, because you probably don't realize what it means for our country if the troika really did come to Slovenia. First of all, they're going to trim 50% of the dead. That's the first thing a threesome would do then. Public sector, the whole public sector would be halved and again so many thousands, tens and tens of thousands of unemployed. There would be no investment in infrastructure. Schools, teachers, teachers half-cocked. We'd change everything, pay-per-views. Am I going on? That's it. About those subordinates and that thing over there, what, it's only one small piece that was in this recovery. 500 million was for pensions only, there was no money for one pension in the state treasury. And that's what people understand. Thank God, they understand and believe that this was absolutely necessary. Well, so much for me on this point. I was saddened when one really thought it was. After all, you convince your people in such a way that they don't know the truth or they know the truth or they just believe someone else. Now we're going to the specifics. Here's this decree, here I'm wondering how we can do some prognosis, what there will be, what there will be no plus and minus GDP and all these things. Who knows? Who can know that? We don't know what's coming. We don't know what's gonna happen to this epidemic. Perhaps, perhaps, those on top of the state may know them. Maybe. Maybe it was also an artificial virus that came to market, waiting for the right time for the vaccine to come out. Because I was surprised by the speech of our high - ranking experts who give opinions daily on television and intimidate us every day, they intimidate the nation. They terrorize this nation every day. In this way, we are only stopping the economy and investment and the desire for progress. How can we intimidate people? Do you know when the time of the intimidation was? Med II. World War II. I watch Italy for one day on TV and they say exactly that they have to prepare for vaccines, that they are already, I don't know how many different vaccine options there are. The biggest problem is money for these vaccines. Thousands of euros says it'll cost the vaccine. They've officially put that out. So Italy needs to prepare about 50 billion for this. Do we have this matter prepared here? For Slovenia, it's probably a billion to two. This needs to start to think a little too. And not just intimidate the people. As there will be no progress with fear, there will be no economy and there will be no growth. But if I'm actually going to a program like that, a program of stability. Here the key is public debt. All of this is a public debt, all of which is clear, which will increase to historic 82.4 GDP in 2020 and now there is no problem when you are in government. What were you crazy about when this happened in 2013, when we were saving the country, saving the economy, saving people, jobs, businesses – successfully. Now we'll see if it works. We want, we are not destructive, we are helping, because we are also voting for, we have always helped, we commend the measures that you have started with such and different ones. But we are very concerned because our concepts use this money a little bit uncontrollable, opaque. I will not use the terms used by other colleagues, but rather worryingly in this way. But that'll be a Thursday point, I think. Now, you know, we're, we're not destructive about this, we're just warning. Who else but the state must help us in situations like this? But yes, yes – the responsibility will be solely yours if these billions go on the water. Because at this point, I apologize to you, but for small businesses, micro-enterprises and craftsmen, all these measures that we put on the table are not entirely worth anything to tell you. Who's going to benefit from all of this is going to be 15, 20% of the people. By boasting about putting $2 billion on the table for guarantees and saying in advance that half a billion will be gone, the guarantee will be cashed, that says where the country is going. Now, no document, absolutely what I've been waiting for here on the table to show us how this economy will start again. A negative 8.1 % of GDP is foreseen and 1 % plus is foreseen for the following year. Yeah, now you tell me how this is going to grow 9% in one year. I'm optimistic, because as a person, I live optimistically, and I can also believe that this will happen, but in what way, tell me. Are you preparing a new ZUJF-2, so you're going to cull certain things like that and other things? Will you strike after pensioners, public servants and other matters, the investment issue? You can only see it. How can the minister say that 400 million are being stopped for investment if the same man is yours is also in the environment and space that stops himself? How can you say that? So let's talk a little bit between you, because you're on the government now, let's say "we have 400 million stopped because we don't have permission from the environment and space." Tell me, because he's our same man, you're the same colleagues, you've been sitting here for 20 years. Then tell me where the problem is. 400 million, I always read that 400 million infrastructures have been stopped. Let's talk about what can be done if they're the same people, right? Now, about the decree. That's what I'm really interested in, Minister. I asked you once before, but you didn't answer. I'm going to ask you once again officially here at the National Assembly. Tell me how you will reduce the deficit by 9 percentage points in one year. That's what I'm interested in, that's what I'm really interested in. I think it's impossible, in my knowledge of the economy, it's impossible, but let's be surprised. Now there's something else I want to know. People ask each other, but those big promises from your VAT. I have heard you here in Parliament for at least two years in a row to reduce VAT. I don't see it anywhere. That's what you've been getting for, in my opinion, voters, like the 2% that was a temporary measure back then. Otherwise, the former government and the former government should have done it, but you've been singing it all over the place. Now you want to see why, where, right? So I don't know, well. The excises have increased after all, too, haven't they? And that was your speech, too, and you always said you had to lower it, didn't you? I'm interested in one more thing here, and then I'll finish because I don't have any more time, but I'm interested right now. Now you've literally set us up, and to all of us, 30% of our salary, we're here every day, every day. I'm here every day, every day. And I think as far as I am, there are a lot of colleagues here every day, working and fighting. And here we are in a crisis situation just like everyone else, aren't we? And I'm curious, public servants by contract, they have contracts, in such situations, they know they get a 65% raise, a supplement, if you say so. By collective agreement. What are you gonna do there? Because that belongs to everyone. Because now there's a battle in this area, up to a double salary to get and what it is. I don't care if I'm willing to, look, I can pay one salary every three if it's for the good of the state, but let's give it to everyone, not just us. And especially you, because the government's decision has been made that they will be able to raise their salaries when the moment is right, when no one will hear, no one will know, then we'll make it quick, because just like we've raised three classes, then we'll raise 30% and we'll raise 35% and 8%. [[Incomprehensible]] It's good for the citizens to know. Different measures and this decree, I don't know, okay, we'll see what happens, in the long term, now from this point of view. I've always said, I'm optimistic, I believe, but those nine points in one year for sure you won't reach. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Before I give the word forward, the fact is, colleague Bandelli, that at that time Slovenia owed itself at a significantly higher interest rate than it would have had in the case of a threesome. The troika offered interest to all countries where it came from, one to two percent interest rates. The countries that did not accept this received an interest rate of 7,8 % on the market. The fact is that almost a billion euro of assets have been disbursed over 100,000 citizens, that it wasn't about what you're saying, what kind of measures the troika would have taken, no analysis has been done with us, we only have what happened, and something else, everywhere there was a troika, came the solidarity mechanism. Remember, right now you're getting reports on this Kalika we gave to Greece, Ireland, and I think Portugal. I hope you're following these things. Now I give you my word. Procedural? Who's going to be procedural? First Starović, then Han, then colleague Natasha Sukič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u77	President! I think that this way of commenting on the debate of the Member is by no means in place, we have heard this a number of times today and hold on. Have a session and manage your task. But if you want to talk and vote, get out of the chair and leave it to the other. And please, you don't really have anything to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Let me get this straight. Your colleague, mag. Andrej Reich, in the position of the Group of Members, specifically quoted my statement from the parliamentary debate years ago, so I commented, otherwise I would not have. And look at the magnetogram, because he specifically mentioned what I once said five years ago, seven years ago in the National Assembly, and these data I said back then still hold. My colleague Han gave up. The bitch gave up. Good. Then let's move on. Igor Peček has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President! Already in the position of our LMŠ Group, colleague Zabret said some things that I intended to do myself. I would like to reiterate in the introduction and point out what I have also pointed out to the Committee on Finance that most of the arguments put forward by both the Minister and the President of the Fiscal Council can be accepted. The fact is that the epidemic is an exceptional circumstance that allows for a temporary deviation from the medium-term balance of public finances and also the need to act quickly and help society as wide as possible. Here I am thinking of citizens, citizens or even businesses, although I think that there is also a partial indication to the Government that it is late or late with certain measures. While it is right that we take measures with a reasonable and appropriate professional basis, there is no doubt about it, and we are all sure of it, and I am also sure that all of us who sit here think that way. It is also true that, in the last crisis, we have been saving banks for the time being, otherwise we do not know with what number of billions of businesses or jobs, but it is important here or on the ground also a warning, as also stated the President of the Fiscal Council, Mr Kkruk at the Committee's meeting. Everything we do and will work in the public financial field must be clean and transparent. And there is another warning, which is very important and consistent with what I said in the introduction, how to proceed. How we will overcome the economic crisis from the health crisis. We're going to have 82% of public debt, we're going to have negative GDP, and I'm going to be asked how to get from minus 8.1 to 1. It's really brave, I hope, for the sake of all of us, that we can all do this together. It is also true that instead of the budget surplus, which was before 1% projected 8% of the deficits and with more than two billion increased the expenditure of the state budget. It's a fiscal rule that we're putting aside a little bit. We had already warned last November in the List of Marjan Šarc that it was necessary to relax, not to do so or to forget the fiscal rule. We did not say this because we would have liked it then, but because the fact is that the existing fiscal rule prevents us from developing and investing. And the calculation methodology using a production gap, this has also been said today, and I also know that the Minister knows that there is no need for a development strategy. However, I am surprised at the Minister's statement, and also at this text in government literature, when you say that, in such uncertain circumstances, it is professionally inappropriate to prepare medium-term forecasts. But that seems irresponsible to me, Mr. Secretary. I don't expect accurate forecasts, I know we can't make them exactly, but at least framework forecasts can. And these must be based on certain assumptions on which we can then also work on certain strategies. If, in the early stages of the outbreak of the virus, the effects on economic activity were most felt through interruptions, so-called supply chains or supply chains. We all see that the impact of the epidemic, which appears to be a lower demand and thus also a reduction in supply, is at the forefront of the loss of income due to the interruption of work processes. We know how many people are on hold. The time frame for tackling the epidemic is also uncertain, and demand and consumer confidence are lower because of either reducing liquidity or worsening credit conditions. In view of what I have said to you in the introductions and in view of what you have been asked by my colleague Zabret, I will not repeat the same questions again, although I am very interested and also on the Committee on Finance, I have asked you this question, and you have not answered me whether we have a fiscal rule or whether we have a fiscal rule development strategy or whether that is the key thing that I am asking you or also all of our citizens, citizens, how we should behave in the future, how we should encourage consumption and related investments. I think this will be crucial in the coming period. If I’m wrong, please also tell me and tell me whether we should tell our citizens that we should act or advise them or ask them how they should behave or go to save, or if they are going to save, in what way. On my own, at least personally, I am convinced that with increased consumption and investment, we are helping both the country and ourselves. And I will be very grateful here, Minister, if you will answer any of these questions today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The text is given by the proposer, Minister Mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I often answer questions, but there are more answers, more questions than there appears to be. Now, first of all, how this data that you're giving here, how from minus 8 to 1 percent of gross social product growth and so on. Now, I would suggest that we all look together at the European Commission's forecast, which may be the most accurate or, which is, I will say most comprehensive. And the European Commission's forecast is that there will be a 7 per cent drop in 2020, which I have already said today. And that in the next year, 6.7% will increase. Now if we're going to sort of reset those 0.3 percentage points, then we can say we're going to get to the 2019 level, so the real zero is right over here. There's nothing going on here, and so on, these are simple indices that you can't just count as you would actually count them and some are percentages, and some are percentage points. This must be easily distinguished here, even when it comes to talking about it, because otherwise there is an easy mix-up. But here the European Commission is setting growth in 2021. Growth is determined because the international public has positively assessed the measures taken by this Government and Slovenia, including health care, in the first place, with regard to the further spread of the epidemic. And these results and these forecasts are better than for the euro group average, where this forecast is on average 7.7 down, minus 7.7. And that's what they say in the European Commission. And on this basis they also calculated rapid growth, faster than other countries have, but because we have simply taken, if you want effective measures against coronavirus for the time being. It has to be admitted. Or if we don't admit it to ourselves, that's what the outsider admits. Which, of course, is a paradox and a little weird. And, of course, there's no forward data. There is no further data because we do not know what it means to disregard these measures. Will this crisis, or if you want an epidemic, happen again? We don't know. But what is actually happening in society today, when these measures are not actually taken into account, when, if you want to make them public to the leading politicians or anyone else, how do you not have to respect these measures when public presentations, photographs and so on, this increases the risk. This increases the risk that this epidemic will not recur in a significantly worse form. In a much worse form also in financial terms. And from that point of view, you just have to be responsible. And surely the risks are greater if these measures are not respected. And then, of course, you want a strategy. Do you want a strategy if measures are taken or if measures are not taken? Here is the basic question and on this basis we can begin. The European Commission, once again, has assessed the measures against coronavirus as good and, also, you can look abroad at articles that also describe how much Slovenia has actually given to people and businesses. We are seven on one of the international scales on the scale of this. And how will it go? Yes, a third package is being prepared, which will mean further development and so on. So, from that point of view, you know, I'm just answering the question as it is. I've already said some things, and from this, it actually follows what strategy, as you say, the development of a fiscal rule. See, the government is obliged to submit to the Fiscal Council measures and strategy how we will get back to the fiscal rule and it is obliged to do so first, this plan, if you want, or, you call it a strategy, to submit to the National Assembly, how many years and so on, and the Government will do so, but today, if you want, we are still in an epidemic state and we do not know when it will actually happen again and again, if the measures do not take into account, those who are so many years ago and then will be the second strategy and then you will say that there is no real strategy, so, from this point of view, see, I here, as a finance minister, I am actually before that I cannot give you what you, especially if these measures are not respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Yes, what do you have, Mr. Bandelli? [[advertising from the hall]] Replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u83	Minister, yes, I understand we can't count and count things in the budget, but the facts are different. The budget has been unsettled this year, you know that it has been incoherent, we know, I'm sure of it, and for a few hundred million. Now, we're going to have a lot less revenue and it's clear that the expenditure will be the same, here's the problem – due to an increase in wages, due to other costs, why you increased the averages because, the expenditure will be the same, the income will be much less. [[Incomprehensible]] How can this be remedied? In one way or another, I worked on budgets for four years — by borrowing. That's what you do. And wait that it will probably be 21 years that will have more revenue than expenditure, because this is pure mathematics, the other is not going. I was wondering if you had any idea? Because I don't know how else to cut spending, do we get the budgets of the Ministry, or do we start the ZUJF again? I'm asking. But, believe me, I'm on the right track for what I said, for real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u84	Thank you very much. There's a minister's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u85	Dear Mr Bandelli, you said the expenditure would be the same, the income would be lower. Today, by this decree, we make a decision or make a decision that expenditure will not be the same as in the current budget, but will be higher by about 2 billion. The expenses won't be the same as you say. The cost will be higher, by 2 billion 150 million. So this assumption is different. And we're going to get this money by borrowing - 10-year bonds, 25-year bonds, 3-year bonds, because we're going to calculate how much we're going to pay in a given year then we're actually paying these annuities, and in a given year, there's not going to be too much oscillation, which is also dependent on the utility of these bonds. [[…]] But once again, Mr Bandelli, the expenditure will not be the same, the expenditure will be higher. Today, this is precisely the subject of this debate, so that they will be greater. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž Han, prepare the mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! Today we are before, for my own sake, yes, before an important document. We accept the decree for essentially the next two budgets by 2022 and the fact that what he has said now, Minister, the problem of this decree is whether or not the problem, the reality of this decree is that because of the health crisis, which is, I will say, not only in Slovenia, but Europe and the world have fallen into, for my understanding, one of the worst economic and social crises since II. World War II is that if we want all the expenditure and all the legal rights that we have adopted in the past, we will have to make at least, of course, a debt of 2 billion and more euros, as the President has now said. That's a fact now. Now, the question whether we will be able to recover or service this larger debt than was envisaged in the back, is that the debt of the country has now been, I think it would be a little less than 70%, now you are predicting 82%, and this will, of course, have an impact on the budget, because we will have to give so much more from the debt recovery line. That's a fact now. Or will we be able to take such measures, on the other hand, to have such economic growth, so that we can retain all the legal rights that we have adopted in the past, so that, on the other hand, which I think is absolutely and only logical, we can make through important investments in this country and that we can, on the third hand, repay the debts that we can only accept in these years. That's the key now. I was a little disturbed when, of course, I thought clearly, the Minister of Finance started to go straight into the fact that some politicians do not respect the measures that we have, I will say, health and so on, which we have adopted in the past, I can agree. But my dear Minister, my dear longtime fellow Member, you have been fighting alone in this Chamber for a month with all the economic, financial themes of this country. In addition, I have not seen a single economic minister, but he would now have his authority, however he still has it, with his knowledge, he also began to elaborate a little on how we will drive the economy forward, how we will release measures that will be mostly lifelike, so that we can have economic growth. And thirdly, the health minister, who will also begin to explain what it means to release measures, what they mean, I will say all these measures, which, I will say, choke right now because of health, the economy, how we will all work together so that it can be better in this country. Of course you can't do that, not you, Minister. But you don't want because you just don't want one social agreement and you don't want one social agreement between all of us, among all of us, if we want these numbers that you've announced with this decree, 8.1% of GDP decline next year and then in the next year 1%, it makes sense to me, it's going to fall so much, then it's going to grow and it's going to be 1%, and it won't be any more money, that's clear to me. It's not math, it's not math. But if we do not reach a social agreement, not between the opposition and the coalition, which this moment, forgive, the opposition want to suspend purely, I do not understand, between the workers, between the economy and between the government, how we will get out of this crisis. Are we aware that in one month, unemployment fell by 15,000 people? And you know how hard it is to hire one today. Fifteen thousand people lost their jobs in one month. They're scary numbers. And all of a sudden, these people are gonna be broke. We have now taken action in these two, three months. On the one hand, health, on the other hand, economic and social. Now whether we hit them – I am talking about economic, social measures – I do not think so, but because I am a politician, I will remain silent in some of the measures. But we're one part of the money divided one month next month we're not going to do it anymore, so now the pensioners think they're going to get it again next month they won't get it again next month they won't get it again, that I don't know who else will not do it was a one-time amount and it's right to get it. We've spent some money on saying these vulnerable groups, and I don't know if we've done everything for those vulnerable groups, but I call them entrepreneurs who have lost because of the actions of the country - I don't say unjustifiably - because they had to close their restaurants, trades and so on, except for loans and some that they could go on waiting we didn't give them anything. We also have a bunch of companies, small entrepreneurs, who have rentals at various of these big centers, which the centres normally charge in these two, and we haven't given them any rent for three months. We have a purchase of some export-oriented companies due to the smaller order that is now coming from imports and falling traffic. We are about to face a major crisis and if we don't try to work together for a little bit, I don't know what will happen in September, because, in my opinion, unemployment will come to 2008 and because, because of the health crisis that the whole world has affected, no state will say I will prosper and we won't have it for any country I won't be able to say I'm going to say tail because Germany is falling, Italy is falling, I'm not saying Austria is falling, and all these countries are falling, and we're going to have an export-oriented company that we're going to have a severe crisis because we're seeing data. The car industry has sold as few cars as it has in the last month and a half, which logically did not sell after World War II, and that is what my dears will know. We are now fighting in this National Assembly and we no longer want to listen to each other, and if anything we say is well intentioned to try at least a little democracy to satisfy us, of course, you run us over. I'm here to start talking and to accept life's things. There's only one case of a minister I know you're not in charge of this, but because you're the only minister I've had to tell in here all day. This medical profession I speak – and God deceives doctors, I give it a hat down – NIJZ and so on these experts and this economic profession will have to sit together for at least one day and talk about how to release certain measures in life. Don't tell me you come to Intersport's store for life, you can buy a bike, but you can't buy a gym pillow. Where such illogical matters affect the business of a small entrepreneur every day is not a number. Since the Minister of Culture says to you in the morning, we'll only open the museums in 14 days, the other one, then Kacin comes in at night and says we'll open tomorrow. This is not political, this is not “fucking” now SD against SDS the opposite. Then we open the bars – I welcome – we say we open them on May 11th or I don't know when, on Friday I don't know the profession and open them on Saturday unprepared, unorganized. That's too bad. Then we also say that only families can be in the locals and so on. The one who's been little in entrepreneurship knows that sometimes people think or even open up because if you open up, you make an even more negative than you did when you were locked up. If we want to continue and want to increase this GDP in some way, we will have to, and this economic and health profession, especially epidemiologists, will also have to start a little bit of cooperation and talk with each other. Not that I'm going to be on TV for three days listening to the crap that's going on about these buses, or that you can get 15 people on the bus that 150 people accept. And you, Minister, can stand up in a metaphor, do everything right, yes, the money in the budget won't. And we both know, two, three months ago, when the previous year or the previous year, when the previous government adopted the budget that Europe had predicted 0.5 BPD would fall because there was a small crisis at the time, but not because of that, right before we accepted it, we had to cut down some of the costs by 100 million and linearly cut down the minister across all the ministries. Now we're talking about bad things. That's why, and here I conclude, Minister, the social arrangement as to what we'll do with the fiscal rule. But do you know when, Minister, with a fiscal rule? When we begin to come out of this health, economic crisis and then we will know this fiscal rule so read, without losing money for wages, but I don't know what else and so on, but that we will spend money on investments that will drive an economy that has a multiple issue, it is construction, roads and so on. That's why we have to make a deal, but today we have to agree on the rules of the game, because tomorrow, when you're in the opposition, if you're in the opposition, of course you'll turn your thinking around. That's why we need an agreement on what we're going to do with the fiscal rule and what fiscal rule we're going to have after we get together. And this seems crucial to me to consider what kind of investment and what it is important for the country to encourage further, no matter what crisis we are in. And when we do that, then it will be a little easier for all of us, because otherwise we will really get into a situation where we lose jobs on a daily basis, as a result of companies, as a result of small economies, trades and so on. And this is where we need to start talking. And here, Minister, it's not just you that I respect you, that I know you know a lot and yes, but there should be other ministers here, right? That tourism and I'm not even talking about it, whichever one it is, I'm going to say, who I'm going to say cancer is going to be this economy. This segment will suffer the most as a result of the global crisis, I think. In doing so, we have invested enormously in new hotels, in destinations and so on, but if there are no tourists, I am deeply sorry for those who have invested. So let's start talking at some level. When we may no longer be in this House, this country will have to function normally. So what question do you consider well-intentioned? What look do you consider well-intentioned, because I could read your magnetograms, you can read my magnetograms tomorrow, but let's give the rules of the game roughly set in such a way that we get out of this crisis as much, I'll say healthy out. But I can't imagine that we're not going to talk about a fiscal rule, that we're not going to talk about one debt that's going to be necessary and necessary. And that if now he stands up because you can still be in debt because the country's ratings are good, you should not be attacked, but you should be in charge of projects that Slovenia will bring back the hammers as some say. But not for us to scatter this money and when we turn back, we will see that we have given it away, but that the citizens, as a one-time aid, have nothing. Because believe me, some would rather see, look to the future, rather than look back. Now, if we can do this, then this country has a perspective, if we don't make it, then I'm afraid for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u88	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj as a proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u89	Thank you very much. A few comments, and I'm gonna say something that actually exists. First, if we are looking at these two laws that we have adopted, there are two other laws that we have adopted before that. We took care of the self-employed. They get 350 for the first month, 700 for the next month, 700 for the next month. So here this small economy, and so on, we actually took care of some of them. Companies here don't pay contributions to pension insurance. And they give 200 euros if they give for the workers. Look, I don't know if any other country has actually taken such a measure. And if we look at the extent to which we give in terms of gross social product, I've been looking at an international survey, in the seventh place among all the countries of the world. I don't know if all the countries have looked, but among those who have actually looked. So, of course, here to say that we didn't give up here and make sure that the economy stayed, so to speak, that for a few weeks, months, I won't be speaking on time now, how much time, actually this economy could have been at zero and then move on immediately. We're working on it. And this also proves to us that the European Commission is forecasting 6.7% of growth for the second year, which means that we will go to the letter V and then begin growth immediately. Because if we went to the letter U, then this would have been a long time, this crisis. If we went to the letter L even further. Here, of course, I also expect an appropriate engagement, a greater involvement of banks. Here too, we've given the guarantee, first 200 million, then we're still a new guarantee, see 2 billion, I think we're monitoring here how much you can't or can't accept the fact that it's not true. [[Incomprehensible]] There's something else we've done, and there's a lot of criticism. We've changed some of the building legislation. Yes, because the country will have a greater role to play in the future than it has played so far in the rescue of the country's crisis society. And this is where some investment in construction needs to be initiated. And here we have changed some laws, of course with criticism, so that we do not take into account all environmental organisations and so on. But it's just so that these investments actually start. And the country, if you want to play the power, of course, will have a bigger role here. So, from this point of view, you know, if you look at all of these measures that are taken in two laws that are adopted, see, ugly laws, because there are many laws in there that change with one law, we are fully aware of that, but here these measures show that in all areas there is actually, if you want a plan or a strategy, as one speaks of a plan one about a strategy. To come out of the crisis as little as possible damaged and to come out of the crisis in such a way that there will be as much economic growth as possible and that there will be as few affected as possible. But certainly, people, look, of course, they will also carry a part of the burden, here no one says that no, that everything will be the same as it was before this crisis, will not. I can't guarantee that everything will be the same as it was before this crisis. I am speaking here of course for some average, some can be in a better position, some in a worse situation, here's the question. But the greater role of the state will certainly be in this respect. And if, of course, we are talking about tourism now, see, tourism is a very special activity. A sector that depends not only on domestic tourism, but also on foreign tourism and is linked to logistics if you want to open airports, stations, etc. And it will probably take a little longer and also tourism, I don't know if it's going to be the way it was before this crisis, the next day. No, there will be redevelopment and the question of which direction tourism will also go. So, of course, here's a lot, I'll say, I can't imagine that these activities or at least some of the activities continue where they ended before the crisis. That's not gonna happen. It will all be its own development, but the greater role of the country and here I agree that this money that we will get in international markets or within the European Union is intended to go into development.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u91	Because perhaps you understood me, Minister. I'm not some kind of self-employed measure, I'm not the one who's talking about not being needed. On the contrary, and they were needed, and that was commendable as far as I was concerned. Of course, we do have a few things because you probably didn't want them or you couldn't hear them when you could, I'll say, with relatively little money you saved another couple of segments. That's what I'm talking about. Otherwise, I absolutely agree that until, at the end of the world, there will be one against the system's anchor, so that we can be vaccinated, it will probably never be the same as it was. I'm aware of that. Probably travel so massively around the world for 20 euros on a plane that I'm going to drive to Barcelona, that's probably not going to happen anymore. Now, was that good or wasn't it good? Some will say that it was good to watch the earth’s protection, but that was not good. And all I see here is the plus. But we have set up the system in such a way that we are warring the consumer world where, in fact, everyone, almost everyone or a large majority, can afford much, not to say. But we just have to be careful that we don't put into serious trouble people who, through this crisis and even before the crisis that they've been living badly and who have some legal basis to do so, can normally, roughly normally live, so that we don't collect these people. That is why, of course, the Social Democrats will also be concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Reich, get Jože Lenart ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that. Since the declaration of the COVID-19 epidemic, it has been almost two months, and we as a society and as a whole of Europe have been in a situation that we did not think could ever happen again after World War II, and our country, as well as many other European countries, have taken measures that have done well in our daily way of life, and have certainly also intervened in economic activity, and the government has faced these constraints, has taken action. Remember, this year we are in debt for 3.5 billion euros, additionally, that is to say, at the beginning of the year, now for an additional two billion and our gross domestic debt will increase from 66% to 82%, which means that every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia will owe 19 000 euros. But it has to be said that these measures were necessary to ensure the welfare of social security and who else, if not the State is obliged to help and we need to know that Slovenia today can be in favour of debt at very low, even negative interest rates, and that the investor, that is almost zero, but so, very favourably and I would like to warn and the opposition, I will say your actions are not opposed, we did not impose, but I would still like Mr Tank, who formerly abused the Rules of Procedure, to replicate it in some way. In 2012, 2013 when we were in a crisis when no one wanted to lend us money, Slovenia also owed itself, but committed itself to the way that it had economic growth for the next six years, a record such as it had been in history, and these were measures taken by the government of Alenka Bratušek and they ensured growth and this was also known by Europe. I would like to read the words of Mr Olli Rehn: "The rapid recovery of the economy in Slovenia is a classic example of a small country that is taking a decisive and united action when facing the young with the thought impossible. The state and its citizens did not want to resort to external aid, so they came together at the last minute. This deserves due respect and admiration from other Europeans.” I would like to stress here that we need to get information on how at least some forecast will be, how the economic picture in Slovenia will be going on. [[…]] However, I would also like to say that the Greek script in which the troika came is not a good passenger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u95	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. No one doubts that this task before this difficult situation is not easy, is not easy. Of course, all countries are looking for the best way out of this and, of course, our country is also on this – not only the Ministry of Finance, as has been said before, but also others, especially the Ministry of Health and I would like to point out at the outset – more professions should be involved. Now, of course, projections, I'll say these measures are being done on some projections and also what you've given us, these projections of the stability programme, where, of course, all countries are being processed, and it's also right that the approach is such that we have some basis. Now, of course, spending is better known at this point, and less revenue, as we have already said today, is also highlighted by the Minister. Of course, in terms of income due to the fall in GDP, the high drop in value added tax is as likely to be in absolute value. There are excise duties, that's income, then there's tax evasion from legal persons' incomes. Profit in the economy will be an exception in 2020 rather than a rule, this can be clear to us. Of course, what will be the health - care deficits, the pension, for the congregations, depend on all of this. Now, of course, you say, "Nobody, there's no hero who can do this today" but it's based on these projections, and that's why you came up with this assignment, what and how. Now, of course, spending is higher, this is evident from aid packages – both for the population and for the economy. Of course, the difference itself is this debt, as we said. Now and here is the key to this success of getting out of this crisis with regard to these measures, that is to say for the population itself, whether these measures were right or right or will have an effect. Whether the measures for the economy to ensure liquidity will achieve their objective. These are the big questions that we have also warned about whether this strategy will be the right one. Then there are the measures of the third package, which, of course, are also announced by the Minister and the Government. This is in preparation and, of course, we are now following other countries, one by one how something works, and this is also the right way. However, all the measures together represent this strategy, which has been mentioned so many times today, and that is why we have also been critical of certain things that we have seen differently from the opposition parties, and we have also proposed measures to make this strategy better. And we have noted that we have been critical that this strategy is not visible with these measures, even when we compared them with publications, how other countries have approached it, and this is the fact that certain things are somehow not explained or perhaps you do not want to explain. However, once again, we are all aware that the matter is not simple. Now, if we go to this fact, as we have already said, great strangers are, uncertainty and action will have to be complemented, modified and adapted. What we can see today can probably be completely different. We also need to be aware of this, but this is the art of how to hunt down those right actions or activities so that things go in the right direction. Now, see, once again, we may have been very disturbed or disturbed by the fact that you have also often been in the field of health, especially in the area of health and where else you have somehow eliminated your profession. All that's so far, I'm going to say work, action, or maybe those activities that were carried out in 13. Vladi. This is also clear, and you did it on purpose, and then you gave your people, but we thought it was more of a political approach. Well, it's your job, you're doing these measures, you're doing this strategy, and that's why, of course, you're also responding, but maybe you'll surprise us that it's even going in the right direction. Now, as far as this is concerned, I would also stress this proportionality of the measures. In the last ISIS number, there is a very good article by Prof. Dr. Josip Cara and, of course, published through Alojz Ihan, who is also an expert in these areas. And, of course, it analyses these actions of other countries. And, of course, it very much points to this proportionality. After all, see, the only solution in this case is the vaccine. When it comes to the plan. That's probably the final solution, but no one can tell when. However, during this period, we have shown to you that these measures were too harsh and when we look at other countries, they were only somewhat local, more emphasis was placed on the local ones where there were outbreaks where there were problems and the rest were more relaxed and they did not take such a rigorous approach. Now I want to say this, if the measures are disproportionate, that the economic damage is going to be great, we have to be aware of something. And that is also what this article clearly says, and the world is afraid of it. Then this economic crisis will also cause a problem, in saying that we will all die. Take this not literally. Why, if this standard falls substantially, then we won't have money for drugs, for treatment, for interventions, and so on. That's what I'm saying. Yeah, this one sees we need to see. Another matter that the profession tells her or what your Government has come to in the last of these measurements is this, overindulgence. You have come to the conclusion by yourself that Slovenia is very few, the population of Slovenia is very few, and thus much greater risk of the epidemic repeating itself to the second wave. Here again the profession speaks, then again those vulnerable groups will be exposed to the danger of dying and I say this from this point of view, proportionality. Where's the right way now? And it would be very good to have a professional decision on this, not politics. The profession needs to unify itself, agree on what's best, not politics. And I think it's that, today, that moment that the opposition is giving you and maybe even those who were on the streets Fridays to resent you the most from this point of view. I'm really trying to look at the whole picture from this point of view. That I don't owe, because of course we don't have a solution, we just have doubts and we're thinking about what would be best. But I will say again, what I have done in previous sessions, it is personal to me, I will say the success that Slovenia will make out of this or the government that is responsible for all these measures today. Today, Slovenia is on average, to the European Union, according to GDP, 86% [[sign for the end of the debate]] We are reaching the average of the European Union. Our goal must be to at least stay here. All the countries, the European countries, we are in the same trouble today, we are in the same trouble and everyone is doing the same thing, they are all worse at it and one is worse than we are, isn't it, Italy, France, Spain, we know what the problems are and our goal must be to be after a year? [[sign for the end of the debate]] , two, three, four, five, at least stayed here at 86%, if not, it would be better to improve, as we have in recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Among the reported debaters is Luka Mesec, who is not in the hall. [[talking to each other]] I'm sorry, this leaf of mine has been checked out. Mag. Branislav Rajić, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon, everyone. It will soon be two months after these exceptional circumstances have taken place, of course when concrete measures have been taken to control the spread of the virus and to control the consequences of the epidemic. These measures have clearly supported the economy and have also supported individuals. We have seen that these were forms of aid, postponement, relief and others and, of course, had to have consequences for public finances. That is why, for 2020, these will increase in the country's sector, and here we are not an exception, compared to all other countries in the world, not just in the European Union. Of course, we have all suffered the consequences of these exceptional circumstances, and it is also clear to everyone why this has happened, so, in a way surprising this misdirection of one part of the circle, why this, because it simply has to be done, we must live on. In exceptional situations, the fiscal rule allows for a temporary derogation from the fiscal rule, and we also know that no one in the country can influence it, even the state itself cannot influence it, but we agree that if such expenditure, aid, subsidies, support, guarantees would not be possible, there would be a lot of people who would be tempted into an impossible and probably unsustainable situation. Our Fiscal Council also noted on 18 March that such circumstances have occurred and the European Commission has also identified the Coronavirus epidemic as an emergency when a temporary derogation from fiscal rules is allowed and, of course, this is considered an extraordinary impact on the state's fiscal situation, and we are also facing it. What, though, will happen after exceptional circumstances have ended, how will we achieve the normal functioning of the country and the recovery of the economy? This is a key issue and the action ahead of us today, which we must take today, is what will enable us to continue in this area. The answer is certainly in production, in consumption, in responsible conduct in all areas. In the SMC Group, we have made every effort so far to help our citizens and our citizens, businesses, institutions, even institutions, and this in all areas, but we also know that we must respect the economic management of public finances, because, even one principle will probably be very important that those who survive more and contribute more. Today a lot of questions have been raised on this subject, but there have been too few proposals, i.e. all those who ask questions of the type, how you will do it, and how you will forget in some way that they are constructively invited to contribute their own proposals, but these proposals have not been, just a finger-pointing. When it comes to these issues, one particularly brings up unrest between us, but that is what you will be on whose shoulders, as it has been heard from a colleague, is an extremely incorrect one, it is a pure illusion that one of them will be very hurtful, as if it is not the actions that we all need when it does not call out to whom everyone is asking, or I will be threatened, and this is one manipulation that we really want to point out, because those measures that we are going out of, that we have helped us out of everything to keep our lungs, and that is crucial, if it is possible, instead of this rhetorical but actually a provocative issue on whose shoulders we should stop with a question or have fun with the question of whose lungs we have in our society, because there is only one common lung and I wish to thank you for it too. The measures in such situations are less or more uniform for all countries and, practically, for one country to support them here today, others despise it only on the side of the hall on which you sit and I hope that our people will understand it, because when it comes to this status of life or death, we all agree that the lungs need more than the shoulders. In this truth, many will find the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u98	Thank you very much. As the last one I mentioned earlier, it's Luke Moon, who unfortunately isn't in the hall. By going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the Government's representative, Mr Minister, gets the floor. You don't want a word? Let's move on. All the advertised debaters that you wanted to get your word on. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly? I find that no, so I am concluding the general debate. No amendments and no amendments to the final provision have been tabled to the draft decree. The vote on the motion for a decree will take place in 15 minutes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in the framework of the vote at 16.05. I hereby interrupt this point and the 37th extraordinary session, which we shall continue as I said at 4:05 p.m. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 15.48.) (The sitting resumed at 16.05)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-11-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u99	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposal for a decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of item 1 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budget of the State sector for the period 2020-2022. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 5 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 37th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, to be resumed on Thursday, 14. 5. 2020, 12 o'clock. (The sitting was suspended 11.) MAY 2020 AT 16.06.)
