ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Vojko Starović, Franz Kramar, mag. Carmen Furman, Monika Gregorčič up to 10.30 p.m., Nada Brinovšek, Alexander Reberšek by 1 p.m., Aljaž Kovacič, Eva Irgl, Matjaž Han, mag. Bojana Mursic from 2 p.m. on, Sonibo the Duke of 10 a.m. on, Dr. Franc Runček from 10 a.m., Iva Dimic from 15 a.m. on, Igor Pecek from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m., Suzanne Lepi Šimenko and Jožef Horvat from 14 a.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to five. This is the second draft of the Act amending the Act on Measures in the Area of Payment and Other Costs of Work in the Public Sector for the years 2020 and 2021 and the extraordinary reconciliation of pensions within the framework of the reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Council for consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Branko Šumenjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u2	A nice greeting on behalf of the Council of State, who has been proposing this law, which you have been considering for quite some time and is now in the final process. I must say that the State Council has tabled this law primarily for the purpose of coordinating pensions provided for in the law to which the amendment is made, by increasing or harmonising all pensioners by the same nominal amount, it is said not in the percentage, but in the amount fixed to all equally, regardless of how much they have contributed to the cashier's work. We cannot agree with this, so we have proposed an amendment to this law, with which we are returning the percentage of pension coordination, as the Government has suggested at the outset, which also has been pointed out by pension associations, is called ZDUS, but of course those who manage the pension fund, this is the Pension and Disability Insurance Office. This is how we propose that this proposal of our law be confirmed. The point is that we do not interfere with the budget with the bill. By proposing a change from the nominal amount to the percentage of the funds, we have kept practically the original. We will be happy, however, if there is a change or amendment during the discussion that will increase this percentage. If I hadn't had this bill submitted to me, there probably wouldn't be a hearing today and the law would remain the way it is. The law, however, is that pensioners would probably not get anything this year. Thank you very much for the opportunity to present the bill. At the same time, I ask you to confirm this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 24th meeting, on 8 September 2020, the Finance Committee considered the draft law amending the Law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2020 and 2021 and the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions submitted to the State Council for consideration and adoption. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to Article 1 of the bill were tabled by the SAB Group of Members, two amendments which were withdrawn on 7 September, the Desus Group of Ambassadors and the Levica Group of Ambassadors. In the supplementary explanation, the representative of the applicant presented the reasons for the proposal. He explained that the State Council had tabled a proposal on the initiative of the Union of Pensioners of Slovenia and stressed that the introduction of extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in the nominal amount had undermined the relationship between the contributions paid and the amount of the pension to be reflected. Instead of the nominal amount, the proposed law would restore extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in percentage terms. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance stated that the Government supports the bill and believes that the current law violates the confidence in the pension system in current pensioners, as well as in those who pay contributions to pension insurance. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the Law-Legal Service had no comments in its written opinion on the proposal for a law. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee presented their views on the proposal for a law and on the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions as a percentage envisaged. In doing so, some have also identified themselves until the pension system as a whole and the principles pursued by this system. The debate drew attention to the solidarity principle of the pension system and to the many pensioners living below the poverty line. In the opinion of some members and members of the Committee, this principle is better suited for harmonisation in nominal amounts, as each pensioner receives the same amount. The debate stressed the need for measures to address the long-term sustainability of the pension system and improve the situation of recipients of the lowest pensions, while extraordinary harmonisation is not the most effective tool. It was also explained that, following the epidemic and current economic forecasts, the linkage between extraordinary reconciliation of pensions on the condition of economic growth is no longer meaningful. Some measures were also presented, in addition to the draft law, aimed at pensioners this year, namely the regular harmonisation of pensions, the solidarity allowance and the regular annual allowance. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance provided some additional clarifications on the concerns expressed in the debate. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendments tabled and adopted the amendment of the Desus Group to Article 1 of the bill. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of the Left Group to Article 1 of the bill. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on both articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The government's opinion will be explained by a mag. Kristina Steblaj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u6	All in attendance, all in attendance! The Council of State has submitted to the National Assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending the Law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2020 and 2021 and for the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions proposing an amendment to Article 6 of this Law in order to regulate the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions as a percentage and not as a nominal amount as set out in the law currently in force. On the part of the Government, I first explain that the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in 2020 in the nominal amount of the Government has not been assessed as appropriate before and even now, since it considers such harmonisation to be contrary to the system law, this is the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. It follows from the provision of this law that the harmonisation of pensions takes place in percentages due to the pursuit of the purpose of the Institute, which is in maintaining the real value of pensions and maintaining the relationship between them at the time of payment. This is one of the basic ways of protecting and not merely increasing the level of post-retirement rights. This way, the erosion of the level of rights in years after retirement is prevented. Thus, when coordinating pensions, we cannot talk about individual pension increases in terms of the nominal value of the pension, as was recognised by the beneficiary at the time of retirement. The pension shall be paid in proportion to the salary or other income and the contributions paid in respect of the completed pension period and, as such, shall constitute the basis for harmonisation in coordination. The fact is that all pensions in the country are coordinated in the same co-ordination percentage and the difference between the reconciliation amounts is due only to the different starting levels of pensions at the time of retirement. The reconciliation of pensions is therefore not a pension increase, as was the case with the beneficiary on the pension basis at the time of retirement, but only a harmonisation of the pension previously paid. The harmonisation of the nominal amount is thus contrary to the purpose of coordination itself and is keen to increase the lower pensions in an exceptional way compared to higher pensions, without maintaining the relationship that was in place at the time of the recognition of the right. In this way, solidarity would be enhanced for a specific group of pension recipients, but the Government considers that all pension recipients should be taken into account in the coordination of pensions and not just compared with the lowest. The nominal mode of harmonisation would thus reduce not only the recipients of the highest pensions but also the recipients of the average pensions, since for those recipients, the nominal mode of harmonisation would mean a fall in the relationship between their pension and the pension of those with lower pensions, in which the solidarity elements were finally taken into account. Such coordination would result in a breach of confidence in the pension system, both for pensioners and for the active population currently paying into the system. Of course, the government is aware of the problems of poverty among pensioners, but at the same time it believes that this pressing problem needs to be addressed through other systems rather than through a system of coordination of pensions based on an insurance principle, it is said that payments have been made in proportion to past payments. Finally, it also raises the issue of the distortion of the solidarity system, as the nominal harmonisation of the pension would bring all users into line with the same amount, so that the beneficiaries of the pension, the partial pensions and the proportional portions of pensions and the disability benefits, which in addition to the pension, would also receive the salary. Even in view of this aspect, the harmonisation of all pensions at the same level is not fair, nor is it possible to achieve the objective set out to improve social security for only the most vulnerable groups of recipients. With regard to all of this, the Government supports the proposal of the State Council, as the percentage method of coordination of pensions follows the very purpose of the coordination institute, while at the same time following the regulation of exceptional harmonisation already proposed by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first is the letter from the Group of Ambassadors, List of Marjan Šarc. The position will be presented by colleague Andre Zabret.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The law under consideration, following the amendment adopted by the Committee on Finance, provides for a 2% extraordinary harmonisation of pensions irrespective of the economic growth achieved last year. Let me begin by stressing that we do not object to the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in the List of Marjan Šarc. We've said this a number of times. But what we want is for the representatives of the Ministry of Finance to provide us with answers to a set of challenges that the pension system will face. It would also make sense to hear the guardian of the pension fund or representatives of the management of the ZPIZ. We all know that we are in a period of economic decline that has not yet been experienced in Slovenia. So we still have to look at the matter a little bit wider. We must also have the stability of the pension register in the medium and long term. We must not reach the point where the State should be in debt to pay pensions, but we must provide pension funds from collected contributions and other tax sources. On Wednesday, the government adopted the Demographic Fund Act, which assumes that this fund will contribute around €70 million per year to the budget to co-finance the pension fund. However, for the rest of the dividends that the budget has so far received from asset management, the budget may be wiped out under the nose, as it were. These dividends will go for the purposes of nobility of the fund, little to build a home for the elderly and little for – pay attention! – family policy measures. So much so that he sneezed at NSI, which would otherwise have withdrawn the policy from the economy. We are interested in how the representatives of the Ministry of Finance agree with both proposals, i.e. with the combination that there will be extraordinary harmonisation at a time like this, almost 100 million, and the demographic fund will only contribute 40% of what is now around 70 million. We do not know how you have set up public finances in the coming years, but according to what is seen, we will live on loans and pay off the partial wishes of coalition parties as long as this allows for a comfortable sharing of assets. What calculations are these, and what awaits us when you spend all the money we're going to borrow, we don't know today. Once again, we are not against the fact that pensioners who have shared the burden of recapitalisation for years pay what they are doing. However, the recapitalisation took place because the first Janša government allowed companies to over-indebt themselves. And this look at your pages has been paid by the pensioners to freeze the coordinates. Now we are witnessing a competition that will give more to the pensioners. But when we vote on extraordinary reconciliation of pensions, it is also necessary to have long-term care, increase productivity, create conditions for the self-reliance of young people who will take care of their contribution to the pension fund in a few years or raise the proportion of working older people. It is not only about the payment of pensions, it is important that the responsible government also has in mind the provision of funds in the pension fund. Of course, the easiest thing to do is to press the key for, but responsible to all, and in particular the responsibility to the pensioners is to make it very clear that the pension box will still be stable within a year and that pensions will be coordinated. We would therefore expect today, at least, that the representatives of the Ministry of Finance make it clear whether they agree with this mode of harmonisation and also how they anticipate the coordination of pensions in 2021 and 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Social Democrats' Group of Members, and the position will be presented by the Magi. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u10	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are again considering the proposal for a law that was first adopted when the last state budget was adopted this year. It set out the content that was, until then, generally included in the law on the implementation of the budget. As a result of the legislative and legal requirements, a separate law has been drawn up regulating public sector labour costs and extraordinary harmonisation of pensions. In the examination of the original law, the original proposal governing the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions was amended. The harmonisation should be determined in such a way that each pensioner receives the same amount in relation to the total available funds for extraordinary reconciliation of pensions. In this way, it would be ensured that, even with the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions, there would be no additional income differences between pensioners. This argument was supported by the majority of Members and Members, including our Group, on the committee responsible and at the meeting of the National Assembly. However, part of the profession and Members, as well as the Council of State, objected, insisting that the amount of the pension should also be taken into account in extraordinary coordination and therefore that pensioners with higher pensions also receive nominal higher harmonisation. Therefore, the Council of State tabled its proposal for a law that would bring the emergency pension harmonisation regime back to its former state. The following section opinion was also supported by the Social Democrats. However, the law was further amended. After reaching the state of play, extraordinary reconciliation of pensions is only carried out if the annual economic growth exceeds 2.5%. Given this year's economic downturn, which exceeds 9%, pensions would therefore not be particularly coordinated this year. However, there was a single position on the parent’s working body that this year’s extraordinary harmonisation of pensions should be carried out in any way, irrespective of the economic situation. In this way, it would be ensured that pensions will also be harmonised this year and that the additional costs incurred will be borne by the state budget. So at today's meeting of the National Assembly, we are considering the proposal to bring pensions to a close this year, irrespective of economic growth or the decline. We will support this solution in the Group of Social Democrats. In addition, an amendment was tabled to bring pensions into line with them in a way that would bring back to the pensioners everything they had been deprived of in previous years of their savings. The proposal is very attractive at first sight, but it would put an enormous burden on the budget and therefore its feasibility is questionable. Although we do not intend to oppose the solution, we cannot support it either, as it is not possible to vote in favour of an unfulfilled solution that would try to solve and correct all the injustices committed by one stroke. To do this, we need more comprehensive solutions that will be absolutely feasible. We will therefore support the proposal in the Group of Social Democrats, which this year provides for the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions for all pensioners, irrespective of economic movements. In this way, at least a little help will be made to improve the situation of pensioners and pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, whose position will be presented by colleague Monica Gregorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u12	Dear President, Members and Members of the Council of State and Government! At the end of last year, we adopted a law in the National Assembly on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2020 and 2021, as well as extraordinary harmonisation of pensions, which was then introduced into the legislative procedure by the second composition of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The government has proposed the law in response to the announcement by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, which for 2020 indicated a faster cooling of the economy than expected. The law also laid down, inter alia, the conditions for extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in a stable manner, in percentages and in relation to the level of economic growth. In the course of the legislative process, there was a change. The amendment of our former coalition partners has been adopted, which has replaced the proposed percentage alignment with nominal amounts. Members of the Modern Centre Party have already taken a clear and decisive position, which has not changed to date – we have opposed the innovations in the field of pension coordination, since the method used would never have been a systemic derogation and a beginning to the collapse of the pension system, based on the level of contributions paid and the length of the pension period. The alignment in absolute terms would undermine these relations, so it is not fair. It would also be contrary to the provisions of Article 106 and Article 430 of the On-board Pension and Disability Insurance Act, where it is stipulated that the harmonisation of pensions is regulated as a percentage. It is not too much to point out that the Union of Retired Slovenians also expressed its opposition to an innovative solution at that time. The opinion of the legal profession, i.e. the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, was also negative. In our opinion, too, it was a populist and misleading rhetoric, and the embezzlement of political points at the expense of the poorest pensioners with the excuse that basic goods, bread, milk, electricity, are all alike. If the applicants sincerely wanted to help them, they could, for example, provide them with assistance in the form of a solidarity allowance. Last but not least, this government has allocated a single solidarity allowance to pensioners with a minimum pension of up to €700 as one of the most vulnerable groups during the epidemic, and the amount of the allowance depends on the amount of the pension, between € 130 and €300. As a result, last year the Council of State has tabled an amendment to the law that we are considering today with the aim of bringing pensions back in a percentage. The view that pensioners are a particularly vulnerable group in these difficult circumstances of the health and economic crisis is also attached to the SMC Group. We therefore support the revised version of this novel, which, at the end of this year, will target all pensioners, irrespective of economic developments, with exceptional coordination of pensions of 2%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Comrade Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u14	At the end of 2019, more than 188 thousand pensioners or more than one third of all pensioners received pensions of less than €600, which is not enough to cover the minimum cost of living. Despite the alarming deterioration in the material situation of pensioners, especially the poorest, even during the last decade, economic growth on the shoulders of pensioners has been saved even at a time of extremely high economic growth. That is also why we spent only 9.7% of GDP on pensions last year, at least during Slovenia's independent period, while the Austrians spent more than 14% on pensions and the Italians spent 16% on GDP. In Slovenia, between 2010 and 2017, governments have abandoned or severely restricted the coordination of pensions to the extent that current pensions are too low by 5.7% or an absolute amount of around 300 million euros. Euro300 million was wrongly taken from pensioners. We therefore propose that the amendment should return to the pensioners what was taken from them at the time of the savings. We propose that all pensioners be raised by €40 within two years of their pension. Desus, supported by the entire ruling coalition, would raise every pensioner by 2%, says Desus suggests that the poor pensioner, who is granted a shameful pension of EUR 227, will be granted a pension of EUR 5 per chick. A rich pensioner who receives a pension of EUR 2 000 500 and who receives a pension of EUR 50. I've listed two borderline cases above and below. The basic argument of Desus and the government for taking measures that favour rich pensioners at the expense of poor pensioners is that we have to respect the insurance principle or pay more, you get more. But regular reconciliations of pensions are carried out due to coordination with wage and price increases. In stores, we do not see higher prices for the same product for people who have contributed more to the pension allowance and lower prices for people who have paid less to the pension allowance. The prices are all the same. It is therefore appropriate to align all pensions in the same amount in line with price increases. The growth of wages at a given time also has nothing to do with the insurance principle. Therefore, regular harmonisation as such is not based in any way on the insurance principle. Moreover, this applies to exceptional harmonisations relating to the discretionary right of the State to raise pensions at an appropriate time, and there is no law governing how this harmonisation must be carried out. So, on the one hand, we have in Levica, who say that pensions have to be aligned so that all pensioners will receive the same amount, including the prices for all have finally risen the same, and this amount amounts to €40 to return everything that has been wronged to them in the past years. On the other hand, we have a government that, with formalistic arguments, rejects such an increase, says that it is some deviation from existing practice and from the insurance principle. But for the dance of these empty formalisms of Desus and Janša's government, there is really nothing more than a political decision, a conscious political decision to ensure that rich pensioners are granted a decent pension, and a poor majority of pensioners will be left in this account again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. The position will be presented by colleague Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u16	Thank you so much for the defrosted pay phone. Dear Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! By this law, we are actually correcting the wrong, unjust solution adopted by the National Assembly at the end of last year, and it has been pointed out by the Council of State. That is why I also welcome Mr State Councilor. To be perfectly precise, today we are considering on the Committee on Finance a complementary proposal for a law amending the Law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2020 and 2021, and extraordinary harmonisation of pensions. The content this time relates only to the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions. I think it is right that the Slovenian public, in particular the population of pensioners, knows exactly what is the key text of this law, this novelty of the law, namely this, the key content is the following. In December this year, pensions and other benefits recognised on the basis of the rights referred to in Article 3, paragraph 1, shall be subject to the remuneration referred to in Article 389, Article 392, paragraph 4, Article 404 and Article 405, except for the annual allowance and the allowance for aid and service, in addition to the regular harmonisation, further extraordinary coordination shall be made at 2 %. I hope that one day the Slovenian society will come to this stage so that extraordinary reconciliation of pensions will not be necessary at all. But by then, there must be a long way to go and, above all, modernisation of the pension system. This is the first and most important policy task in the area of secure pensions. Many ask why now 2%, regardless of economic activity, of economic growth or decline. I will simply try to answer this question, why the rate of extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in 2020 does not depend on economic movements. Remember that Umar announced a decline in economic growth this year in that pessimistic work of up to 9% due to the COVID-19 epidemic. So the decline in economic activity is minus 9%. For the next year, if we are doing as well as we are doing, if this second wave does not severely deplete and depreciate mainly through the economic sector, then Umar has forecasted economic growth to up to about 6%. So we have a lot of amplitude of economic activity fluctuations with a difference of 15 percentage points. During this period of time and with such great fluctuations, it is practically pointless to link the extraordinary alignment of pensions to economic activity. But I'd like to give you some information. According to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which is also somehow responsible for the pension system, the following should be said. This year, pensioners have already experienced, if I may say so, regular harmonisation of pensions in accordance with the law. The financial valuation of the regular reconciliation of pensions is around 170 million. As you know, in one of the anti-Korona packages we also accepted as pensioners a solidarity allowance, including to buy masks – the SAB Group. This solidarity allowance was around €67 million. Pensioners have also received a total annual allowance of around € 140 million this year. And if this law is adopted, which shows that it will bring 94 million euros to all pensioners in the pool. If we add that up, we get to a total of about 471 million. These are some payments to pensioners outside of regular pensions. As far as the New Slovenia Group is concerned, we will support the amendment of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u18	Dear Presidents, representatives of the Government, fellow Members and Members! The fate of extraordinary reconciliation of pensions has been uncertain for almost a year. Ever since the State Council vetoed the Law on Wage Action and Other Labour Costs in the Public Sector, there has been an enormous risk of harmonisation of pensions. Because he failed with the veto, he submitted a novel that we are deciding on today. National councillors have submitted an amendment mainly due to the call of the Association of Retired Slovenians and Desus that both regular and extraordinary reconciliations of pension values must be determined as a percentage of individual pensions, not in nominal amounts. Is that true or is it a matter of political will? The fact is, in regular coordination, the pension is the basis for an increase in the pension received by an individual. However, this is not necessarily the case with exceptional harmonisation. The extraordinary harmonisation of pensions is something extraordinary, something that the government, with the support of most members of the National Assembly, decides to give voluntarily when it is allowed to do so. With the help of the SAB Members and the support of our proposal from other members of the then coalition groups, with the exception of Desus, the extraordinary harmonisation of 2020 would be a solidarity. Pensioners and pensioners with the lowest pensions would have made it easier for them to stay for a month. They would be relieved of problems that those with higher happiness pensions do not have to face. Any pensioner would thus receive the same amount, and today a pensioner with 500 euros in pension will receive 10 euros more per month, while a pensioner with a thousand 500 years of pension will receive 30 euros more. Although the letters of milk, loaf of bread, electricity, and other cost of living increase equally for someone with 500 or 1,000 euros of pension. One of the most important programme orientations of the SAB are pensioners, their decent pensions and long-term care for the safe age. We respect the political will of the majority and strive to improve the status of pensioners, so today's proposal for a law that will enable pensioners to be extremely harmonised with pensions of 2% will be unanimously supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position will be presented by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. My friend Robert Polnar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! For the Desus Group, the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions is an essential component of the law that we are adopting today. In Slovenia it is very much forgotten that due to the crisis, pension coordination was partially frozen in 2010 and 2011 and completely frozen in 2012, 2014 and 2015. In particular, the freezing and partial freezing of pension coordination have resulted in a rather significant reduction in the ratio between the average net age pension and the average net salary between 2010 and today. The backlog in coordination has not yet been fully resolved. The difference at this point is 5.6%. With the envisaged harmonisation of 2%, which will be implemented in December this year at the confirmation of the National Assembly, the remaining uncoordinated backlog will fall to 3.6%. In its autumn macroeconomic forecast for 2020, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development forecasted a 6.7% drop in economic growth as a percentage of gross domestic product. For next year, growth is projected at 5.1%. The interval between the two projected rates is 11,8 %, taking into account the fact that the starting point will be lower in the coming year than originally planned. The large and unpredictable variability of the macroeconomic environment was the reason why in the Desus Group we proposed the withdrawal of the restrictive condition on the linkage of a percentage of extreme harmonisation to the rate of economic growth. The decision at the parent working body meeting showed that our proposal was supported by a large majority, with 14 votes in favour and one against. In considering and adopting the law and its amendments, the way of extraordinary harmonisation was also highlighted as an important issue, whether it should be made as a percentage of the pension or in the absolute amount for all the same. The position of the Desus Group is unequivocal. The Coordination Institute is not intended to increase the work of pensions, but to preserve their value. We are therefore in favour of the principle that the amount of the pension depends on the length of the pension and the amount of the contributions paid. Therefore, extreme coordination needs to be carried out as a percentage. The fact is that our pension system is designed so that a little bit of injustice that appears in the labour market cannot be completely erased. The question is whether a substantial greater emphasis on solidarity in the pension system could jeopardise its other important constitutional element, the dependency on the level of the pension on the level of the contributions paid. In particular, such dependence provides, in particular, broad social support to the public pension system. All past pension reforms in Slovenia have taken quite happily into account both basic elements, and this is also a fundamental dilemma for how to ensure solidarity in the system and how to strengthen social support for the public pension system. A change to relativise the amount of contributions paid would constitute an infringement of fundamental principles, and it is not possible and must not be overlooked that even during the crisis, pensioners were not all reduced equally in flat-rate amounts, but rather in percentage. For the sake of everything we say, the Members of the Desus Group will support the complementary text of the bill, as adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by colleague Jani Ivanuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u22	Nice hello to you all! Especially to the state councillor and secretary of state, but of course to all the others present here in the hall. In the Slovenian National Party, we have always advocated an increase in pensions as a percentage of the already-spent pension. Retirement in the amount or in the number for the vast majority of pensioners is not even fair because they would actually get less than they would receive with this last bill. It is true that most pensions are too low and most pensioners would have earned higher pensions. However, a concrete increase in pensions would require an additional source of funding for pensions, which should be exactly the demographic fund. It is a pity that such a fund was not already established in 1991 when there was still a lot of state or social property. We understand pensioners want annual pensions, but the pensioners are getting more and the workers are getting less. Mathematics just doesn't work anymore. Let us not forget that at the time of the epidemic, pensioners with the lowest pensions have already received funds. In the future, we will only be able to provide higher pensions so that we have employers who will pay higher wages, and we can also count on higher pensions on higher salaries. However, if our economy continues to be based on minimum wages, we are looking forward to a break-up of the pension system. It is not excluded that one day we will come into a situation where pensions will cease to be paid because there will be no more funds. In the Slovenian National Party, that is exactly what we are afraid of. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u24	Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! We have before us a proposal for a law amending the Law on wage measures and other public sector labour costs for 2020 and 2021 and for extraordinary harmonisation of pensions. This is the most important two segments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, with a 2% increase in pensions in 2020, irrespective of the economic growth achieved. We absolutely support this because we are convinced that this step must be taken. Another important part of this amendment is the coordination of pensions in percentages and not in nominal amounts. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the error made in 2019 must be corrected, as payments in nominal amount and not in percentage part in the conviction of the Slovenian Democratic Party could, in the medium and long term, jeopardise the sustainability of the pension treasury. We are convinced that the extraordinary or regular coordination of pensions must be linked to the contributions to the pension fund paid by the beneficiaries during the working period. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that any change in this area would also be a negative signal for all future contributors to the pension system. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that low pensions must be resolved in a different way; they must be resolved in the way that the first Janša government has already implemented, with unique amounts. In spite of the recession, Janša's government, together with the coalition, was aware of the difficult situation of pensioners during covida-19 and provided one-off allowances for those with the lowest pensions of 300 euros, 230 euros and 130 euros. The same procedure was already carried out within the mandate of the first Janša government. The Janša government, along with the coalition, can take care of pensioners even during a recession or an epidemic, contrary to other governments, which, even during the period of the transition – both in the government of Marjana Sarca and in the government of Alenka Bratušek and the government of Mir Cerar – could not take care of the pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 24 September 2020. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left. Anybody want to talk? Comrade Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, chairman. 300 million euros. So much was wrongly taken from Slovenian pensioners between 2010 and 2017 when pensions were not coordinated or coordinated in percentages as they should have. As a result, today, when it is written in 2020, the pension deficit is 5.7%. This is an injustice for which there are no economic or public financial reasons. And it's an injustice that is being abolished by the amendment to today's law in Levic. We say that this EUR 300 million or 5.7% mannequin in all pensions should be translated into an equal amount of pension. We've calculated a little bit, and that means that if we go to the same amount, this would translate into 40 euros a higher pension for each pensioner. The main opposition to this proposal comes, of course, from the kind of government, from the kind of coalition. But not because the state wouldn't have the money. The country obviously has more than enough money to adopt legislation for 780 million euros in heavy arms transactions at the same time as we are dealing with ZUPJS today. The money is obviously enough, but the political authority rather throws it at the relationship between NATO and foreign military industrial complexes than to use it to correct the injustices of Slovenian pensioners. The key argument with which opponents of this kind operate is, czech, jj, Levica, the terrible Left violates the insurance principle of our pension fund. I will tell you what the insurance principle of the Slovenian pension fund looks like in practice. So the lowest pension is set at EUR 227. This is the absolute lowest pension in this country. Ladies and gentlemen, which one of you can survive with 227 euros in income, any of you from anywhere? However, some Slovenian pensioner is sentenced to such poverty. In statistics, more than one third and 36% of Slovenian pensioners are such that they have to retire below €600. If an increase of 40 euros of all pensions is a breach of the insurance principle, so be it. So be it. Because this principle that we now have is one great injustice to those pensioners on the lowest pensions. Those who have the highest pensions also move in the category of EUR 2 000 500, to those who are not already suffering. And I see no point in bringing pensions into line in the percentages that will spend more than EUR 2 000 500 on an additional EUR 50 and the EUR 5 on 227. In fact, I don't understand this twirling and this insistence on the reconciliation of pensions, I'm not going to say uplifting, because they're co-ordinated in percentages, otherwise with an extremely class government agenda that wants to give extra money to well-settled pensioners and poor pensioners shows the middle. I don't know, maybe there's an electoral calculation back here, if, yes, because those who are poor, they don't go to elections, they're cut off from the world, they're up there, they have to deal with their own poverty, they won't come to the elections, they won't surround us. Maybe there's some kind of cynical calculation in the back. And there's something else I'd like to say on the subject of the famous insurance principle. As I mentioned earlier, we are not talking as much about the pension rise as we are talking about the reconciliation of pensions. What is the alignment of pensions? By increasing the cost of living and the cost of living as prices go up. And these prices go up for all pensioners the same. The price of bread for someone who has a good pension does not increase by 5 times the price of bread for someone who has a lower pension. The cost of living goes up for all the same. And if we adjust pensions to rising prices of living costs with these alignments, then it is not only meaningful, but it is also logical that all pensions should be aligned in the same amount. As I mentioned, this means for these injustices, which occurred between 2010 and 2017 with poor coordination or non-coordination, €40 higher pension for each pensioner. Nor is it a formal fact that I do not know what kind of breach of the insurance system, nor is it a breach of the insurance system at all. The insurance system is taken into account when you retire. That's when you look at how much you put into the cash register. And the one who paid more gets a higher pension, the one who paid less gets a lower pension. There, the insurance principle and its terms are sufficient. Not in coordination, where there's enough of something else, how much the prices have grown in the stalls. This is intended for regular coordination and, after all, extraordinary coordination can take this into account because it is not linked to any strong legal basis that would prescribe how extraordinary harmonisations work. Extraordinary harmonisation is the discretionary right of the State to decide, at a certain point in time, to raise pensions. There is no reason, no formal, no legal, if you want, or public finances, that the injustices against pensioners would not be corrected and all pensions raised for these 40 euros to carry in that 300 million euro heavy outage, on pensions and sparring on pensions, which took place between 2010 and 2017. It is not only the purchase of weapons, the fact that there is enough money in this country, that fact also supports the budget's balance, as we have considered it at this meeting. This budget balance has virtually no limitations. It announces €4 billion in deficit, with an additional €2 billion in balance alone. A lot of money. Where this money goes, we don't really know. The Ministry of Finance has reserved €1.6 billion a heavy item, placed a COVID sticker on this item and explained to no one what this money will go for. However, with the consistent corrupt governments of John Janša, we can imagine how the handling of these funds will take place: domestic, little for commissions, little for friends, nothing for anyone. For the pensioners, according to the stated positions and positions of the clients, there will be no money. However, this 300 million euro cannot be found. Ladies and gentlemen, but you've found 300 million euros to take them away from the pensioners and give them somewhere else for some other needs over the years. But when the injustice has to be removed, and suddenly there is a problem with the members of marriage, although they are not really a problem, it is a factory, and they are a problem of public finances, although they are not really a problem of public finances, if we can give 780 million euros to Nate, then sure as hell we can give 300 million euros back to the pensioners and raise everyone's pension for those 40 euros. Poverty and poverty eradication in that country should be a social priority. It's about time. I am now in the middle of my second term in the National Assembly, and during all this time, social priorities have never been a commitment to their own citizens and citizens. It is high time that the eradication of poverty at home, helping people at home becomes the first item of the agenda not only for this but also for every future government.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Since there is still an interest in the debate, I will cross-reference the application list or the application to the list. The first word is from a colleague of Mojca Žnidarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. I have to say that I wasn't actually going to come by, but now that I've listened to this debate by Mr Kordish, I have to take a call. The pension box is not a social cash register. That's probably what we all know. Pensions are paid out of the pension box, in proportion to the contributions paid, the contributions paid and the years in which the person has paid. The percentage harmonisation of pensions is legally correct and is also fair. You always mention some pensions, which are 200 euros high. But I don't know how many years this guy worked for, because apparently, then a very short period of time he paid for it to be such a low pension. Because for a full pension, it is 40 years of work or even 30 years if he did not have to work for 40 years, the pension is still slightly higher. If you remember, in the previous term, it was determined how low is the pension for the full pension period and at the time it was EUR 500, which is now EUR 540 after harmonisation. Indeed, with 200 euros, no one can live because all those who receive such a low pension and do not have much wealth can apply for a social worker’s allowance at the Social Work Centre. This protective allowance was part of the pension allowance until 2012, but was then eliminated. Now it's being paid off by the Social Work Center. And I know people's cases, when I'm told many times, I've worked 40 years, and now I have 540 euros in pension. However, those who worked very little or nothing have a security allowance of 600 euros. Then is that fair? This alignment, as now proposed by the State Council, is, as I said, legal and even fair. And not always with these 200 euros of pension because if someone has 200 euros in pension, they should go to the social work centre and ask for a protective allowance. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u29	Replica, Comrade Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u30	Colleagues and colleagues, I hope you've listened well to this saying nonsense that just broke into this hall. Look what the colleague says. On the one hand, the insurance principle needs to be taken into account, different payments need to be known for different high pensions, and this is with the pension allowance. But then in the next breath, this same SMC colleague tells us that we already have a statutory minimum full-time pension, under which full-time pensions cannot fall. It has already been incorporated into Slovenian legislation and has been in the previous mandate, and this was a good action by the previous coalition, which I supported at the time, that a minimum full-time pension cannot fall below EUR 500 or now with alignments below EUR 540. Thus, the principle of the insurance principle, the consistent principle of the insurance principle, has already been violated. And it is true that social security has the advantage of pensioners over some bureaucratic mobsters. You wonder where these lowest pensions, such as EUR 227, come from. I'll tell you. From the most vulnerable group. Older rural women are a group of citizens and citizens who are most at risk. They have such a pension. And you know who else has pensions like this? Disabled people. You are now explaining to these people that they are essentially themselves guilty of having such a low pension, why they do not go to a social work center and apply for a protective allowance. Are you ashamed of yourself, colleague? From a privileged parliamentary seat with a privileged parliamentary salary, you preach to people what is going on and what is not going on [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u31	Comrade Kordish, resist some of your own [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u32	where this protective additive is already present [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u33	and similar values [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u34	is not the kind of universal social right that you would like to try to demonstrate. [[…]] If the state gives you a security allowance to fix your pension a little bit – do you know what happens? It's sitting on your property, on that one house you might have. The previous term of office I have fought for the abolition of this property seal if the State has already given you the protection allowance. Unfortunately, we weren't successful in Levic. Anja Kopač Dark didn't want to agree to our proposals at the time, but the pressure has gone so far as to place a lower limit on the value of the property under which this country will not sit and will not seal it. But the vast majority of properties fall over this limit. This limit was set at EUR 121, which means that in order for you as a pensioner to get some pension adjustments with this protective allowance, your apprentices have to pay it back. So it's not even social aid, it's not poverty eradication among pensioners. It's just a credit to the next generation. Don't be shy!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u35	My friend Kordish, three minutes past. Comrade Joseph Horvath, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Counsellor of State, colleagues and colleagues! For the introduction, I must say that I am extremely sad, disappointed that we cannot have such an important topic of a collegiate, friendly debate. Of course, we have different views. We normally have different views, so we have parliamentary democracy. But we have to complain and this colleague, Comrade Kordish, I don't know, this kind of attitude towards women, colleagues, colleagues. Okay, because I'm not going to reinvent you, God forbid, I know you're going to replicate, I know you're going to insult me. But I also know that you will replicate and I know that you will insult me because I will tell you that this amendment you are proposing is simply not acceptable to me in New Slovenia. I know you're going to talk about guns and so on and you're going to insult me, but we're already used to it, nothing new. And fewer people are listening to you. Please, let's split up the debate on social policy, because we need to talk about poverty, and let's split up the debate on pensions, about the pension system. About the system. Once again, I hope that some future generations of pensioners and politicians will experience the moment that extraordinary pension coordination is not needed. Because with extraordinary interventions, we are actually correcting something that is not good in the system, as it were. Of course, I welcome this extraordinary reconciliation of pensions. I perceive that the Left has nationalisation in its political programme and so on and so on. But when we talk about five billion and a half billion, what we have to do together, go back home and pay our pensions and other extras, then we have to start where this money is made. Are we going to get more money through nationalisation or are we going to get more money for the PIZ, for the pension fund, that I'm right, by taxing those who create, good, business and so on? Our answer is very clear: no. No, no, no. Speaking of security in general, of course we also need to talk about pension security. And the pension must be fair and sufficient, according to our understanding. Those who have worked their whole lives — knowing exactly what it means to do their whole lives — know how many years it takes in marriage — must live a dignified and independent life in the fall. Whoever paid more to the pension fund has a higher pension. We do have different amounts of contributions to pension and disability insurance in absolute terms. Of course, solidarity is involved here, and solidarity must be involved. But it can't be a policy of the same stomachs, because then we tell everyone, but especially to young generations: don't work because it's not worth it. And we're actually here in this area. It is not worth working in Slovenia. Well, that's another area again. But let me remember, I have so much historical memory, and here, too, some colleagues were, in July 2005, saying good 15 years ago, Desus and I, together with the SDS, were then amending the law on pension and disability insurance and in some ways eliminating the injustices that had occurred until then to pension generations. At that time, we were determined in the law to reconcile pensions with wage increases. But today someone has already said that this has not actually been done in quite a few years. That is why I have been repeatedly critical as an opposition Member, but not to guess, only numbers have shown that we are including from 2009 to 2017, that is, in nine years if you are observing the wage-retirement ratio, that this ratio has fallen by 9 percentage points to the detriment of retirement. And in a way, we have to fix this. Surely this cannot be done now with this 2% emergency coordination, but we have one big job ahead of us, this is the modernisation of the pension system, which will also take into account the demographic trends that are in our country. We are a society in Europe that is the fastest growing old. We know that. But if politics doesn't react now, then we just don't get it right. Since the current pension system may be available today, it is not sustainable in the long run. We have included since 2015, including 2019, this is 5 years; in this period, from the state budget to the pension fund, if I may say so, about 6 billion for the payment of pensions. Okay, that's the law. But a sustainable system means that we could give these 6 billion for some other development projects and so on. Our view is also that justice between generations is governed by an intergenerational agreement and a pension. Due to the increasing life span, and thank God that it is longer, thanks to medicine, thanks to a healthier lifestyle and so on, we need to create a long-term balance between pension benefits from pension insurance, retirement age and a guaranteed pension. Today, while the debate on one very narrow segment on pension policy is about a single act, if you want, of one single transaction, as I said, of a good 90, exactly 94 million, to be carried out this December for this year. What will happen next year is a question for this Parliament and also for the government. As this amendment has been said, we will not support the Left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague of Franz Jurša. Replica, Comrade Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u38	Thank you. Again, I'm accused of not knowing what I'm hurting, but let's put things in perspective. Here, ladies and gentlemen of the government and the coalition are refusing to give up a fair raise to someone who is disabled, unable to get a normal pension and living with EUR 227. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give this an extra €5 as charity, someone who has been doing very well in his life and has 2,000 EUR 500 pensions, and I would give it 50 euros. Dear citizens and citizens accompanying us, judge what is truly offensive and mocking to the people in this country who are working and who are afflicting poverty.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u39	Thank you very much. My friend Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u40	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! This last sentence of the predecessor, which he replicated, is a reflection of his debate, populism. Now I'd like to start with my colleague Mojca Žnidarič and Jožet Horvat. What Mojca Žnidarič said is actually what holds and drinks water. And what Comrade Jože said is similar. But constantly trampling on the flossules to tell the untruths that after ten things, the truth will come. My dears, calm down and tell the truth so that people can actually understand what this is all about. At the outset, I will tell you some of the historical facts that have happened in connection with the coordination of pensions. Already in the previous government under Mr Sarc, Members of our parliamentary group, with our party's President Erjavac today, have been very much coordinated by 1% of the extraordinary coordination of pensions. But that was very optimistic at the time, for extraordinary harmonisation was conditioned by economic growth. For this reason, the whole thing was under question because we did not know if there would be 2.5% of economic growth at all, but we agreed, under the terms.In the Desus Group, we reached our goal and came up with a coalitionly coordinated proposal for 1% extraordinary coordination if, of course, economic growth exceeds 2.5% of gross domestic product. At least that's what we thought. Until the coalition partner SAB came by this time and literally threw a proposal for extraordinary coordination at our backs in the nominal amount and for all the same things that some other coalition partners adopted to our surprise. You know, Members of the Group are not here to trade the votes of pensioners with the help of such mints. That is why we do not parade with computers and graphs in this hall and boast about what we have done to benefit the older generation or pensioners. The response to the minimum amount of emergency coordination was negative by the Legislative and Legal Service, the State Council, the Association of Retired Persons of Slovenia, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. All in a row argued that extraordinary reconciliation of pensions could not be carried out in nominal amount. Some did not fully understand this and were still insisting on making their amendments. They did it this time, too, but it fell on the work of the mother. Lower forecasts of economic growth followed, and therefore the resignation of the then Prime Minister. When the new government came together in March in crisis situations, none of us expected what we would have to deal with. The Coronavirus epidemic left a large number of wounds on the population as well as on the economy. Yeah, we're in debt. Have not others been in debt? Do others not have a decline in economic growth? They do. There is no doubt that much has already been done for pensioners in this government, from the solidarity allowance for the most vulnerable and tourist vouchers to today's proposal for extraordinary harmonisation. We are pleased with this in the Desus Group. Let me mention that 302 000 224 pensioners received one single aid totalling EUR 66.4 million. Thus, a single solidarity allowance at various levels was granted to pensioners whose pension is less than €700. In addition to pensioners, those receiving disability benefits with a lower income of EUR 700 were entitled to the same amounts. A single solidarity allowance for pensioners was also granted to those insured persons who were necessarily insured and included for a narrower range of rights. It was also received by those who were retired under the Law on the Age Insurance of Farmers and the recipients of the supplement to a foreign pension. If we fought for 1% of compliance with specific conditions in the previous government, the proposal for 2% extraordinary coordination without conditions for economic growth in this government was well accepted. For the current coalition partners, it is logical that pensioners who have not been regularly coordinated in recent years should be corrected. The blames were caused by 8.4% and now with this 2% remaining 3.6%. Of course, this harmonisation must be made as a percentage. In the Desus Group, we are aware that, despite the adoption of the proposal for 2% extraordinary harmonisation, pensions will need to be harmonised for the remainder of 3.6%, as I mentioned earlier. I would like to inform pensioners that we are also actively involved in this, but it is necessary to take a reasonable and responsible approach. The financial consequences of the epidemic will be felt for years. Of course, I would be happy if we could do away with the injustice completely today, but we must be realistic about these matters. If you take responsibility, you can also appreciate reality. 2% of extraordinary harmonisation will be passed on by the state budget, as confirmed by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. What is more at this point is simply not possible, and all proposals after higher coordination are based mainly on the desire to collect political points. However, I am pleased that the Prime Minister, in response to our question, confirmed that there will also be a further reduction in the backlog in the coordination of pensions. It also ensures that, in the event of a recurrence of the epidemic situation, the solidarity allowance will again be provided to pensioners. The adoption of the proposal by the Desus Group and 2% of the extraordinary harmonisation without linking to the growth of gross social product will not be a victory for the party Desus, but for all pensioners who will see that we really care about the pensioners in the National Assembly, so I appeal to all Members to support the amended bill so that together we can take a step closer to correcting the injustices that have occurred in recent years when the economic crisis has been severe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u41	Thank you very much. My colleague Violeta Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I'm not surprised that my young colleague Mihi will take the ceiling when he listens to you. This letter, which was read by the president of the party who once declared himself retired until it became clear to everyone what he was actually working for, was really dripping over the edge. I have in my hands the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states in Article 2 that Slovenia is a legal and social state. It is true that pensions are not social transfers, but you cannot tolerate, none of you here can tolerate that we have half the pensioners who receive pensions that are lower than the minimum cost of living. Eighty-nine thousand of them live below the poverty line and there are 60,000 of them women. And let me remind you that women are getting less and less paid in all professions, even when we are doing the same job. So to explain that as much as we paid, we're going to get, you know, the one who had a higher salary paid more, but that's why he's got a higher pension. But those who have spent all their time, such as the servers, the peasants of women, the cleaners, will always be affected by poverty. The already-dose percentage of pensions is shamefully low. We know how he fell and how he fell. And now you elegantly legislate the differences between poor and rich pensioners. Of course, they are poor and rich pensioners, for the rich have already earned their jobs and have been able to buy houses, dwellings, many live also from certain stocks, dividends, broadcasts, while the poor man daily beats his poverty and spends everything or more than he had on daily bread. Thus, if we are talking about the harmonisation of pensions, then pensions are aligned with price increases and wage increases. Pika. Where do you get the idea of giving more to the rich in coordination? We get percent more on a regular basis, always. When coordinated, it is only fair that pensioners get the same amount, because when they go to the store, the price for their needs is the same as for those rich. Simply in Slovenia, which is a legal and social state, we cannot imagine what it is like to have a single yogurt for a week or a snack of dry bread. Do you know anyone who has a pension of EUR 227? [[…]] I know people like that, and that's not just what you'd like to say. And it's true that it's a shame that someone who's worked his whole life gets a smaller pension than a security allowance. It's a shame. But that doesn't mean that the security allowance is too high, which means that this lowest pension is shamefully low. And of course we're talking about the purchase of 780 million weapons. We're talking about him. Why shouldn't they have mentioned him? We're talking about the priorities of this government. I wouldn't say that if 780 million or half of that amount were actually allocated to our soldiers who are working, risking their lives, having low wages, and I'm afraid that pensions won't be God knows what. This is where the Left would be right behind. But to send this in the form of some kind of iron, let me remind you again, the Patri dish never drove, and we know what was going on around the purchases and now we're going to have these other patriots — what, what? – out on some missions, while here we have pensioners living in cold apartments, pensioners who can't afford normal food, let alone something else. Pensioners who have received a 200-euro voucher that will never be cashed out because, for God's sake, how do they get anywhere? Okay, we have a free ride, but 200 euros for one pensioner is a lot, but there's always something to add when you go. Our amendment proposes €40 for all pensioners. It will be possible for the rich, I don't know, to visit a cinema, to the rich, it will be possible, I don't know, one dinner, not yet, because for 40 euros two can't eat. But to the poor, believe me, it's huge. It's huge. A poor 10-euro pensioner spends a week because he has to. And believe me, there are many of them and there are too many of them in Slovenia. I will absolutely support our amendment, and your arguments seem to me to be simply offensive. I can't understand and I'm trying to keep the blood calm so that in Slovenia, which is a social state, you can even think that way. We're rich and then let the rich get even more percent, because we, you know, paid more. Oh, come on! I will also say this: we give a billion euros a year for pensions because employers pay half the lower contributions than workers. Let's get these problems addressed and we'll have enough money in the cash register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrei Reich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. In fact, I would just like to discuss today's law, and we have been repeatedly challenged. First of all, I will say that in the SAB we will respect the political will of the majority, because we are also striving to improve the status of pensioners and will support today's proposal, which will allow for extraordinary reconciliation of pensions. However, in the discussions so far there have been quite a few untruths and deceptions, and here I would like to point out that some have been in almost all governments over the past ten years and have done nothing for the pensioners. The SAB party was only in the government for half a year and this year we have raised pensions by slightly less than 8%. I will repeat, the first regular harmonisation was 2.7% in January 2019, the extraordinary harmonisation was in December 2019, then the new regular harmonisation of February 2020, and we are talking in essence about the fourth harmonisation that we have proposed in the nominal amount, for all equally. Most decided that the matter would turn out as a percentage. So I do not accept the words that the Party of Alenka Bratusek did nothing for the pensioners, especially I do not accept this from a colleague who comes from SDS because we remember, but under the government of Janez Janš, the pension was reduced, and this is the only time in history that Desus assisted him. I would also like to respond to other deceptions that have been said that we did not care about the pensioners in the SAB. We have ensured regular coordination, regular coordination means that this pension will be higher each year for pensioners. We have raised the percentage of the pension rate, together with the partners, of course. We made it possible with the partners to work with the pensioner. We also made a proposal for free masks. Here I would like to respond to the words of my colleague Horvath, who said that this was covered by a solidarity allowance. We believe that the solidarity allowance as some kind of dragan correction is not intended to buy protective equipment. We believe that if the state prescribes something that is mandatory and refers to the most vulnerable group of people, then it must be ensured to them. We in the SAB proposed this when the price of the protective equipment was low, as the epidemic was somehow calming down. Now he's getting rich again, and we'll probably be able to witness the re-emergence of this protective and protective equipment. We also provided free transport for pensioners, and if we took into account in essence the explanation as explained by SMC, then the richer pensioners would drive in the first class and the poorer in the second class. When we talk about solidarity, we think that bread, electricity and basic matters for all pensioners are the same, and this is not an argument of the same stomachs, but this is essentially a matter for which the government can or may not decide. And even in this case, the government may or may not decide to make extraordinary coordination. And regular coordination is the one that keeps relationships. But still, most have made up their minds, and we will not object here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Is there still interest in the debate? I can see that. I'm going through the list. Applications are under way. The first word is Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u46	Thank you very much, President. Today we are talking about reminding myself of the State Council's proposal that pensions should also be reconciled as a percentage in extraordinary coordination, as a percentage of the existing pension. And every time someone, and this has been said to me today, of course, he said that the solution proposed by the SAB was to harmonise the pension in nominal terms, illegal or even unconstitutional, every time and again, I will come forward and say what I mean in this regard. An illegal solution can't be if it's written in law. If I had been explicitly written in the law, it was arranged by law that an extraordinary pension in 2020, 2021, should be aligned with the nominal amount, such a solution, which is in law, cannot be illegal. Such a solution can potentially be unconstitutional, but we have not yet had this test at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We have never had to test this solution, which would, for example, enable pensions to be coordinated in this same way for all pensioners, who, in fact, suffered a great injustice, who had a significantly lower percentage of the time — then determined by law — despite working the same period as their colleagues, until the same age, and had the same lower salary. If the Constitutional Court were to say at one point that nominal harmonisation is possible in the work when it comes to extraordinary harmonisation, all these pensioners could also be resolved. Now we won't know. I understand the interests of some that pensions are always aligned in percent. But once again, our law specifically stipulates that regular coordination, the coordination that relates to the alignment of the pension with the increase in the cost of living, is a percentage. This preserves what needs to be preserved, how many years someone has worked, how much he has paid, and so on. Here the insurance principle prevails and it is also right to prevail. We thus encourage people to be involved in the pension system, to pay pension contributions, to work as long as possible, to register with the pension system as soon as possible and so on. That's right, and it explicitly states the law. On the other hand, the law makes no explicit provision for extraordinary coordination other than for extraordinary coordination to take place if economic circumstances so permit and if the government so decides. So we could certainly change the law and write that once, because of me, pensions would be aligned to the nominal amount and would be tested to the Constitutional Court. If it hadn't been for this test, I don't believe it, because so many people were upset, but this test could have been done and known forever. We do not yet have such a decision by the Constitutional Court. But the fact is, as has been said thousands of times, that one regular alignment is the same as it was, the percentage that is now steadily higher for these people. The second alignment in the same year in nominal amount, which would slowly miss those pensioners who are under the edge of poverty and those who are really hard to live, across this border, so that they do not need social transfers. This is about one pocket, another pocket, because we get it. But that's not social policy. This essentially corrects a mistake in the pension system. And for someone who has worked for 40 years, it is insanely insulting that someone should tell him from New Slovenia that he has an under-retirement pension, he has to be saved with social transfers. That's crazy. Because our pension system, in addition to the insurance principle, also has a solidarity principle, which is seen in many areas. You just raised women's pensions yesterday, or is that today, because it doesn't matter, I don't know when the vote was. You've raised pensions for peasant women who paid minimum or zero. Where's the insurance policy? Where is it? And there are a number of such cases where the principle of solidarity is important. And of course, the richest pensioners in associations such as the U.S.U., who already have as much as a thousand 500 euros in wages and who would get a single coordination instead of €80 6.5, like the poor guy who has 500, 600 euros. I don't agree to that logic and you won't convince me. However, most have made up their minds. I respect that. But don't teach me that something is unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague of Jerco Korca.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! The basic question you all ask yourself today is that pensions are too low. Of course, pensions are too low, but we will not be able to resolve this with a market as policy goes on a time-by-time basis, 2%, 2.85%, but an amendment of 10% could be proposed to me, and a very cheap populism that would be really huge on the other hand. Never, or rarely, is the policy involved in looking after the mandate, 10 years later, 15 years in advance. If we were actually dealing with a few mandates back and each time, we would probably not be talking today about €275, €400. These are the criminal numbers for each pensioner to receive them at all in his transaction account. Allow me to take this opportunity, however, because I agree with my colleague Horvato of Nova Slovenije when he said that we should not discuss extraordinary reconciliations of pensions at all. That's right. Indeed, we should not talk about this anymore, but for such matters and to achieve this goal, we should look 10, 15 years ahead and not only at the fact that there are two elections in a year, and that anyone who has already done this will be able to brag about what he has done for the pensioners. And let's let this be a possible view of a younger person, I'm talking very calmly, and I would really like to have constructiveness here, not populism and an enumeration, who did something for today's pensioners, because looking so narrow, it's not going to get us far. We know that there is no self-resistance today, and we are already paying in order to even pay regular pensions. If we do not see that it can save us that we do not force young people on the one hand into holiday jobs that do not bring about the possibility of maintaining a solidarity pension system, if we do not see that a young person cannot choose a family – that we will not be a fast-growing society in the European Union – if he does not have an apartment because it is a foundation. And we're dealing with it today. I've been working on it, too. Since it may have been five, six years ago, I still remember very well how difficult it is to get to an apartment today. On the other hand, we do not have a housing policy, and there is no provision for this in the balance sheet. It's a luxury that this government doesn't save. Even more so, some parties argue that there is a need to let even less prosperity, even less time-consuming services, remain stable. These are the key problems of resolving the pension fund if we are able to look a little longer in the long term. Otherwise, this ship is operating in these cheap populisms, which we are witnessing, 2%, 2.85% of some extraordinary harmonisation that not only do pensioners not deserve, but we all deserve to put this system together on such a foundation that it will be sustainable in the long term and that we will no longer be talking about 300, 400, 500 euros of pension. Otherwise, we really need to ask each other together where this system is going to lead and how we can even provide pensions to the generations that are coming up against getting pensions. And that's solidarity. We have young people, we have active populations on the one hand and older people on the other. If we give young people things and tell them what solidarity is, they will understand that some part of society today cares about them so that they can have some of it later. I would really like to be able to look at it this way and not only in the way we can say what we can at that confrontation that will wait before the elections. Because that's the least of my personal responsibilities to the state. It may be popular or possibly good for current pensioners to say that you have given them 10 euros more a month, but I hope to say that pensioners too see and understand that this is the use of them for some partial political purposes, and this is certainly not the view that this country would deserve in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague of Yuri Leprechaun.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. I would therefore begin that, in fact, all the Members we are here in Parliament are concerned that we are adopting some laws, and I agree with what the law says. It's just a legal basis. So also what a colleague from the SAB said, I fully agree that this is it. I think that, above all, these two parties Sab and Desus should not oppose each other, but work together for the benefit of all pensioners. It is also the task of Members to work for all good, not only for pensioners, but we are such a party that we have a priority in defending the interests of pensioners. Members and our Desus Group will not depart from our activities to provide decent pensions and a decent standard of living for all pensioners, regardless of whether we will be in one coalition or be in another coalition, whether we are in one or the other and who will be the President of the Desus Party. We are committed to ensuring the social and material security of all categories of pensioners and also to eliminating austerity measures at their expense. The key content of the new law, which we are currently considering, is this year to allow for an extraordinary reconciliation of pensions of 2% without binding on GDP growth. This is a proposal by Mr Desus, who was supported by a large majority at the meeting of his mother's working body. So that no one will think that extraordinary coordination is ours, Desus's request, we have to say the following. The harmonisation of pensions is a fundamental element in maintaining the real value of pensions over a longer period of time. But since I'm running out of time, that's all I'm gonna say. The amount of the pension must depend on the retirement age and the individual’s contributions paid. Of course, we also advocate solidarity in the pension system, which is already an integral part of our way of calculating pensions. So I believe that together, all of us, pensioners, young people and all of our employees, will put more into this joint treasury. In short, it is necessary to work positively and [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided on Tuesday, 29th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 9. 2020, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is another defence proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on ills found within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 38 Members and Members with first-signed mags. Branislav Rajic. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Branislav Rajic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Hello! In June, in the National Assembly, we discussed a bill proposing voluntary vaccination for opponents of vaccination. The text of the bill stated that compulsory vaccination should be abolished in order to create social conflict. But the truth is completely different. This was made clear in the weeks when we received a number of comments from doubters at our e-mail addresses. They wrote about hiding safety studies, about the fact that vaccines are not safe, about the irreparable consequences of vaccines and, finally, about the personal responsibility of Members who will give support to the bill. Instead of confronting the members of the Health Committee, opponents of vaccination would rather have resorted to creating a social conflict on Facebook under the auspices of the Association for the Natural Development of Children, which organises anti-vaccination actions. The most worrying is the agreement between parents on how the system will play after the changes we are proposing are adopted. Not to mention irresponsible, inappropriate and misleading records of the spread of conspiracy theories, of NIJ, of us Members. If immunologists, epidemiologists, pediatricians, allergologists and other professionals are committed to human health, the Association for the Natural Development of Children and its sheep prefer to devote themselves to writing on Facebook and avoid democratic dialogue with us and the profession. A constructive debate on the proposed measures developed on the Health Committee's proposal for a law. We offered an opportunity to have a dialogue with the opponents of vaccination because we thought that the public would be interested. Well, unfortunately, he wasn't. Not because we would not want to do this as our proponents, but because we lacked the interest of those who create social conflict around vaccination. By subverting this conflict, they suppress another logical conflict that cannot be hidden – a handful of warmed-up activists without expertise and verifications are being put against science, medicine, and verifiable practices. On their own, they have decided not to vaccinate their children against infectious diseases, and they do not care that this decision can have consequences not only for their children but for incredibly many children. In their drive, they refer to Google and the online sermons of self-injured American healers as doctors. They forget the consequences of mass infections, the awe of the limbs, the consequences for life, the unnecessary deaths. These include personal fears, problems of elevated body temperature after vaccination, and then the justifications culminate in insurmountable delusions of autism, body chipping, control from space. High school knowledge of biology should protect us from such bias. We trust and trust the law's advocates. We trust that the measures taken to ensure health are safe and effective. Since vaccination is about the safety and health of our children, in these discussions they simply must not disclose the beliefs of opponents of vaccination based solely on Google-medicine. The aim of the bill that we are considering today is to raise the degree of interception that guarantees collective immunity. In order to achieve this objective, we propose the following measures: limiting the inclusion of unvaccinated children in public and publicly co-financed kindergartens; limiting the enrolment of candidates who are trained in health, social protection and education and education; optimising the process of determining the reasons for the suspension of vaccination by which the work of the vaccination commission is burdened. We are pleased that the proposal for a law has broad support. With this, we have shown our citizens and citizens that when it comes to public health, political divisions simply fall away. And this is very important right now. The fact that the proposed solutions have also been supported by the profession is also eloquent enough. If we have the opportunity to eradicate a disease, we should do everything possible to make it happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Health Committee as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Mojci Žnidarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! At its 9th session on 10 September 2020, the Health Committee considered the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Infectious Diseases, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Group of Members and Members with the first signed by Branislav Rajić. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 71st meeting on 12 June this year that the draft law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. The Committee was provided with the material published on the website of the National Assembly, namely the proposal for a law of 5 July 2016. 6. 2020, the opinion of the Council of State, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government. Amendments to Articles 1, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the SMC, SDS and DeSUS by SMC, SDS and DeSUS were tabled within the time limit, to the title of Chapter Transitional and Final Provisions, to Article 7 and to Article 7a. On behalf of the applicants, the additional explanation was submitted by mag. Rajic. He highlighted the objectives of the bill and stressed that it was the intention of the applicants to raise the degree of cross-section at least to a state which, according to the medical doctrine adopted, allows collective immunity, that is, 95%, and indicated the measures by which those objectives would be achieved. The Government's opinion was presented by Dr Tina Bregant, State Secretary, who stressed that we have successfully maintained a high proportion of vaccinated children in Slovenia for many years and that some infectious diseases no longer appear or their number has decreased significantly. Vaccination has been proven to be the safest and most effective measure to prevent communicable diseases advocated by all official institutions in the field of public health, but in recent years the number of children who are not vaccinated or undervaccinated, although vaccination against communicable diseases is mandatory. According to data, the proportion of unvaccinated children has already exceeded the critical limit below 95% required to develop collective immunity. The government therefore supports the objectives and solutions contained in the bill, taking into account some amendments and additions. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that, in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, she had made a comment to Article 1 of the Law on the question of who was to bear the costs of drawing up an opinion of the medical expert to be submitted to the proposal for suspension of vaccination. Other comments were duly taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. The opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, the work, the disabled was delivered by the state councilor mag. Peter Požun pointed out that the Commission supports the bill mainly from the point of view of public health protection and the provision of a higher degree of interception, and notes that the proposal addresses one of the key issues related to communicable diseases, the protection of risk groups of the population. Their positions and views were given below by the invited representatives of the profession, the Medical Chambers of Slovenia, the National Institute for Public Health, the Public Medicines and Medical Devices Agency, the Slovenian Medical Society, the Association for Paediatrics, the Section for Primary Paediatrics, the Pediatric Clinic UKC Ljubljana and the Clinic for Paediatrics of UKC Maribor. In their presentations, they stressed the importance of vaccination to public health and society as a whole. They expressed their support for the bill and agreed that the proposals of the profession were largely taken into account. The debate highlighted that vaccination is one of the greatest achievements and achievements of the medical profession and represents the most effective action against communicable diseases. According to the available data, 98% of the paediatric population in Slovenia advocates compulsory vaccination. In recent years, however, there has been an increasing problem of grafting not only in Slovenia but also in Europe. The Committee adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Government will be explained by Dr Tina Bregant, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u56	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! Vaccination is undoubtedly the most effective measure to prevent infectious diseases. The vaccines administered in Slovenia are safe and effective. The field of medicines and vaccines is also among the most regulated areas and is subject to a single regime within the European Union that ensures the highest level of safety, quality and effectiveness. The Ministry of Health has been implementing, together with pediatricians, professionals and the lay-off public, a national plan to improve immunisation, which has emerged in response to declining trends in 2016 and 2017, despite already mandatory vaccination against children with infectious diseases. For example, smallpox, mumps, and rubella, the fall of grafting is below the critical limit of 95%, which is necessary for the development of collective immunity. The problem is even greater because cross-section is also declining in many countries of the European Union and wider. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supported the solutions, taking into account the amendments and additions that the proposed amendments to the law have included and supported by the Health Committee. The Government agrees and supports the optimisation of the procedure for determining the reasons for the suspension of vaccination for medical reasons, as the procedure is long-term and ineffective after the current regulation. It is also appropriate to specify provisions on mandatory formal and substantive components of applications. If the complete applications have adequate medical documentation, which also shows the reasons for the suspension of vaccination, the vaccination commission will, of course, be able to deliver the expert opinion necessary for the decision to be issued within a reasonable time. At present, the vast majority of the stakes are incomplete, so it is a long-term decision. The novelty is the restriction on the involvement of unvaccinated children in public and public co-financing of private kindergartens. The government considers that only those children who have not been vaccinated against measles, mumps and rubella are subject to a proportionate and sufficient measure. Why? Because smallpox poses the farthest public health risk, as with the reduction of grafting we record outbreaks in many countries of the European Union as well as in the wider range. Rashes are an extremely contagious disease that spreads rapidly in the collective and complications are relatively common. Similar measures regarding the restrictions on unvaccinated persons have also been taken by Italy, Germany and France due to frequent outbreaks. At this point, vaccination against diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, haemophilus influenza type B infections, polio, hepatitis B and measles, mumps and rubella in the Republic of Slovenia are mandatory. Retirement is possible only for medical reasons. Thus, the restriction on the inclusion in kindergarten of unvaccinated children against measles, mumps and rubella is only an additional measure aimed at preventing the spread of these most common infectious diseases in kindergarten collectives. The Government agrees with the proposal to refuse admission of candidates who are not vaccinated against measles, mumps, rubella, pertussis cough and hepatitis B to schools and colleges who are trained to work in education, education, health or social protection, unless a decision to discontinue vaccination has established that there are medical reasons for this. Students and students of the above-mentioned guidelines practice in and protect health and social welfare institutions, as well as in the context of protective and patient protection. For a similar reason, the government supports efforts to ensure the high uptake of employees in the public health network and social welfare institutions, while the government has a reservation to the prohibition of working with patients or guards for employees in the public health network and social welfare institutions if they are not vaccinated against mumps, redskins, pertussis and hepatitis B and seasonal influenza, as employers are also obliged to ensure a high level of safety and health at work. This includes the obligation to vaccinate against measles, mumps, rubella, pertussis and hepatitis B and seasonal influenza, which should be based on the workplace risk assessment. Therefore, with full respect for the existing Law on Safety and Health at Work and its provisions in Article 17, we would have achieved the same, our common objective, this is the high level of overlap between employees. At the same time, the prohibition of working with patients for under-vaccinated workers in the public health network could have adverse effects in the context of undernutrition, both in health care and in social care as we now have, and in the context of the concomitant COVID-19 epidemic, could have had many employees who did not meet the conditions for working with patients. And that would be a real disaster for the patients. Vaccination is undoubtedly one of the greatest achievements of modern medicine, and it is right to make it possible for all children and adults to benefit from it. Indeed, we do not want the childhood sickness that caused them to die and suffer the consequences to come back. We therefore support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, he gets the word "magic." Diane Jedhan. He will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u58	Dear Members, honourable President, dear Members, Madam Secretary of State, all welcome! Social Democrats advocate the view that vaccination is one of the greatest achievements of modern medicine that has saved millions, dozens, probably one hundred million people. Social Democrats also advocate the view that it is right that vaccination is mandatory for the most serious, most dangerous diseases, which is now prescribed in Slovenia. We also see the initiative of Mr Rajić as well-meaning. He wants to help. However, we have taken a deep look at the problem of vaccination in Slovenia. In September, we addressed individual questions to the competent ministry, as we wondered what is behind the fact that the interception over the past few years is worse, although we are pleased to know that the interception in 2019 is again better than in the last four or five years. The trend has changed over the last year. And what have we found, ladies and gentlemen of honor? Here, too, thank you very much to the Ministry of Health, which has given us the correct information. We have found that we also have one major health problem that is similar to the problem in all of our social life. And it is a problem that false news spreads faster than the truth spreads, that deception is significantly more credible than a serious, respectful word. Where has this brought us, ladies and gentlemen of honor? The data I'm going to read to you right now, I want to tell you because it's causing discomfort and it's a sign of alarm. According to the Ministry of Health or the professional institutes it has hired, only 47% of mothers, which is less than half, trust in vaccination. 34% of moms don't know who to trust anymore. If vaccination were voluntary, if I had good information in my head, only 56% of mothers would decide to give the children a vaccine. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first part of the problem. We were also warned about the second part of the problem by individuals. We also sent a question to which the government and the ministry took three months to answer. The question of e-mails was quite simple, motivated by calls from citizens and citizens. Why do the agency which is responsible for the authorisation and control of medicines, when there are few individuals, ask them not to be provided with visible studies on the safety of vaccines that are mandatory? We were sent a decision where the competent agency replied in some way: mandatory vaccination, i.e. for medicines that are required on the list, for one, we do not have it; for another, it is a business secret. We asked the Ministry what it would do, because transparency must be. We are aware that there is a risk everywhere. The greatest risk is not to vaccinate. However, data must be accessible to people. We got a pretty dry answer, so I wrote in a joke that the minister probably didn't read what his officials, probably the agency that writes these decisions, wrote that by protecting the business secret, the synthesis of drugs and so on. And people don't ask about drug synthesis, they ask about safety study. The second part of the answer was because it was prescribed by the drug law. What was the question? What are you gonna do? Ladies and gentlemen! We understand that we are now ahead of a decision as to which way we are going. Our request to the Social Democrats is the following. Let us make a common effort to regain greater trust. A common effort to engage in respectful dialogue with those who no longer have confidence in the profession. And this effort, as shown in the study, must be made by doctors and health workers in particular because they trust him. Let's make an effort to make the data publicly available. Finally, once again, we cannot support this law at this time. But please, because we believe that vaccination must be and that it must be mandatory and that it must be a response, let us make an effort towards those who no longer trust us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The position of the SMC Group will be presented by the mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u60	Good day again! “Paediatrists and school doctors are asking you to act responsiblely in child health care and support changes to the law on infectious diseases according to the profession’s views. Pediatricians feel responsible that as advocates of the best health care of the child population we express our support for amending current legislation in the field of communicable diseases." This is part of one of the many letters of support that we Members have received from the proposal for a law on communicable diseases. Although we have also received comments from opponents of vaccination, the support given by the profession is the most important for us. A profession that strives to make us healthy as a society. In Slovenia, 93% of preschool children were vaccinated last year. That seems like a lot, but this information can't let us down. This percentage tells us that the vast majority of parents are wise enough to protect their children from infectious diseases. Just as their parents protected them. It is wise and socially responsible that parents are grateful for vaccination, one of the safest and most effective public health measures in history. Unfortunately, there are still 7% of parents, too many who don't, because they just don't believe it or because they don't do it because they read on Facebook unreal stories about the side effects of vaccines that have been dumped long ago by serious science. The undeniable fact is that if vaccinated children are not enough, all children are at risk. And they don't care about all the kids. Health is an important value for SMC and we have therefore already proposed changes to the legislation on vaccination in the past. The decision was not made for a variety of reasons, but perseverance pays off. Today we are just ahead of the goal, which is truly a pleasure to us. We are also supported by coalition partners. In order to increase the share of vaccinateds, we have committed ourselves together in a coalition agreement. However, support for our solutions does not end in coalition lines. The bill has not even been opposed by opposition Members to this day. In particular, it is important that the proposed solutions also be supported by the section that clearly communicated this with all the letters and with public support when considering the draft law on the Health Committee. Of course, on the other hand, we have also received a clear signal from opposers of vaccination, but they have not gathered enough courage to democratically confront our views. They weren't at the board meeting. This surprises us to some extent because they have repeatedly expressed in their letters the expectation that this proposal will be decided with the people in the dialogue. They thus missed the opportunity to receive answers to their questions on vaccine efficacy and safety. Therefore, once again in this site, the vaccines are safe and effective and the earth is round. The proposed amendments for 21st century society must be adopted. Not to carry out the so-called vaccine repression, nor to support pharmaceutical corporations, as we have been told, but at the very least to harm anyone. We have not been able to sit at the crossroads and allow uninformed individuals to bring the whole population to the brink of health risk by irresponsiblely avoiding the primary vaccination of their children. The threats they pose to us these days strengthen our conviction that we must be responsible and take the proposed measures. However, it is the safety of all our children against resurgent outbreaks of long - eradicated infectious diseases. Slovenia is a world-class children's quality of life ranking in the first place with Norway. This achievement is a circle of well-thought-out actions and policies that give children and parents a lot of attention. But we conclude this circle by creating the value of responsible collective parenting as conscious parents of our own children by following social standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Željko Cigler will next present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u62	Dear President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Vaccination is a preventive measure that prevents millions of deaths at annual level. And vaccination protects those who for health reasons cannot be vaccinated and by raising the general level of vaccination it protects society as a whole. Therefore, vaccination is public good, which has never been and is still not self-evident in capitalism. In the 19th century, the vast majority of deaths were caused by highly contagious diseases. The average life expectancy of a child born in a labor family in Liverpool was 15 years in 1840. The average life expectancy was extended by the end of the 19th century, long before penicillin or broad spectrum antibiotics were discovered. However, the reason for the extension of life is not to be sought in the development of capitalism. On the contrary, the main reasons were collective preventive measures, notably improvement of the sanitary situation, sewerage, clean drinking water in all settlements in Slovenia, including Roma, better housing conditions and so on. All these measures have been, although they may today seem self-evident, so-called common public good. Like today, the public was good at the time, of course. The capitalists opposed the sewers because they refused to pay taxes. Many others advocated private ownership of plumbing. The capital objected to collective action as opposed to it today. Yet, it turned out to be two things: that the rich are not immune to infectious diseases and, more importantly, that there are forces that are willing to fight this publicly well and also defend it. For these reasons, it is even more difficult to understand the pressures against public good, such as vaccination. However, this scepticism can and must be understood, but we can only understand it if we take a good look at what power in the Republic of Slovenia understands under public good and public health. Our government continues to repeat that money must follow patients, that an individual is responsible for his or her health and that health is a matter of his or her personal choice. Money is thus devoted to marketing campaigns against smoking, against alcohol, against unhealthy food. At the same time, the basic conditions leading to smoking, alcohol consumption and forced purchase of cheaper, unhealthy food are of no interest to the authorities because these conditions are linked to the fundamental social inequality on which Slovenia is founded as a class society. With the ideology promoted by this government, the individual’s health has been held accountable for his health. You tell people – and this government reports – that they are responsible for their health, that it is their individual choice and responsibility. But that's not true, public health is a common thing, it's a common public good. The health status of an individual is not his or her own individual fault, but is due to circumstances conditioned by the social situation of an individual and social inequality. Burning, exaggeration, full-time work and unpaid work of women in the household, all of this affects the health of the individual. But you convince people that their individual choice is the highest possible ideal of health. Therefore, some people now do not see through this logic and do not understand – and this is important – that collective action is also needed for public health. Because you tell them that they are responsible for everything, they are now thinking only of themselves. In other words, as long as you drive your privatisation into the neoliberal individualist agenda, by then people will be opposed to vaccination for the most absurd reasons and thus to the common public good. Therefore, in Levica we demand the exercise of the right of citizens and citizens to be informed and have access to professional data on the safety and effectiveness of vaccination. It is estimated that accessibility to this information and data without restrictions would increase trust and relation to vaccination and contribute to an increase in the proportion of vaccinated persons in Slovenia, especially those for whom vaccinations — in particular in children — are defined as mandatory and recommended under the Illuminated Diseases Act. Therefore, it is unacceptable that the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, at the request of access to studies on the safety of individual vaccines, says that it is not available or that it is a matter of business secrecy. This is the vaccination of children in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u63	Thank you very much. As next, Mrs Tadeja Šuštar will present the position of the NSI Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We could have expected that the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infectious Diseases would raise a lot of dust and trigger great pressure. In recent years, several discussions have been made and amendments to the Law on Infectious Diseases have also been prepared, but we have not come any longer, mainly because of the inability to decide and the lack of uniformity of policy. The development of society, high online access to data, social networks and various portals enable faster access and exchange of information. Due to inadequate parental instruction and the spread of theories that are not scientifically supported, however, he is an increasing number of unvaccinated children. In Slovenia, school children have fallen below 95% in recent years. For example, in the case of measles, cross-section has fallen from 95.8% to 93.5% in 2018, 2019. I hope that we are all aware that when the proportion of transplants falls below the critical limit, diseases that have been virtually eradicated begin to emerge again. This can also lead to serious medical complications in those who should not be vaccinated due to medical contraindications. Concerned parents, mothers, and fathers sent e - mails and messages to the Members, cited personal experiences and experiences in complications following the vaccination of their children. I admit, some of the stories described are shocking, some almost incredible, and they leave a man in another world. I would like to present the historical framework for the initiation of systematic vaccination in Slovenia and in the world. Around 1800, vaccination against black goats began in 1937 against diphtheria, 1948 against tuberculosis, 1951 against tetanus, 1959 against Oslo cough. The development of vaccines was crucial that the diseases that used to be mass killings throughout Europe and the world were virtually eradicated. I believe that this has brought greater freedom for mankind and security and justice. The Western world, part of which we are Slovenians, has the possibility of accessing modern treatments, medicines and vaccines. Vaccination is one of the greatest achievements in medical history and is one of the greatest hopes of medicine in the future. We're at a time when we're looking for a covid-19 vaccine, and we're learning how vulnerable we are. In New Slovenia, we have already written down in 2014 and 2018 that the mandatory vaccination programme is to be organised in accordance with modern doctrine, so that parents will be properly informed and informed of all aspects of vaccination for children, possible side effects, and that in the event of adverse side effects, the State which prescribes the compulsory vaccination will closely keep records of these side effects, closely supervise the producers and suppliers of vaccines and take responsibility for these cases: rapid professional and material assistance, support to families and compensation. Slovenia is one of the highest standards countries in the field of child health and has a strong commitment to the welfare of children in other areas. Members of New Slovenia will support amendments to the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Next one's gonna be a mag. Mr Reich presented the position of Mr Sab. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u66	Mr President, representatives of ministries, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The issue of compulsory vaccination has been discussed for the second time in the last few months in the National Assembly. This time we have before us an amendment to the Law on Infectious Diseases, which, contrary to its predecessor, wants to raise the rate of interception at least to a state that allows collective immunity. After a broad discussion on the working body, we have before us a proposal for a law providing for the submission of appropriate health documentation demonstrating the reasons for the suspension of vaccination in the event of an application for suspension of vaccination, a restriction on the inclusion in public and publicly financed private kindergartens to unvaccinated children without medical grounds, the refusal of admission of unvaccinated candidates to schools and colleges educated in the areas of education, education, health or social protection, except for medical reasons. Again, vaccination is one of the most important public health measures that has made an important contribution to the prevention and control of infectious diseases in us and also in the world. According to some data, Slovenia has one of the strictest and most thorough compulsory vaccination systems in Europe. Some doctors say that if those who oppose compulsory vaccination were to learn well about the diseases that we want to prevent and eradicate by vaccination, vaccination would no longer be opposed because the benefits outweigh the risks. Let me just point out a few cases. Smallpox. The complications in the disease cause severe dehydration, and children may also suffer from inflammation of the middle ear and pneumonia, which is the most common cause of death. Mumps. The complications of mumps are rare, but serious. In boys or men, they can cause infertility, less inflammation of the brain, of the brain’s envelopes, and loss of hearing. Reds. The complications are more common in adults, such as pain and inflammation of the joints, a rare disorder in blood clotting and inflammation of the brain. The complications of congenital reds are hearing loss, gray marble, heart failure, and mental retardation. So when we talk about compulsory vaccination, we talk about vaccination under the prescribed vaccination programme — against measles, mumps, rubella, pertussis and hepatitis B. The law before us thus places public health first, and more importantly, the protection of the risk groups of the population. In the SAB Group, we believe that strengthening public, quality and affordable health is a priority, which will therefore strengthen collective health, which will have to take precedence over the next few years. From this point of view, we absolutely support the intention of the proposalr. Nevertheless, it is estimated that the issue of vaccination and the related quality of vaccines is something that we need to reach a broad consensus as a society in the first place. We therefore expect the Government or the Ministry of Health to take the lead and address this issue as soon as possible from a professional point of view and send specific solutions to the National Assembly. We will not oppose the proposal of the MEPs of the SAB Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! Perhaps we can say peacefully that there are not many areas that arouse the wave of letters that we have received in the last period. I am writing support to the five thousand electorates and voters that have not been considered in the short term following the abolition of the system of compulsory vaccination and the letters of disapproval on the proposal for a law that is before us today. But surely we can all agree on at least one thing: the matter governed by the Law on Infectious Diseases is of paramount importance, it is of utmost importance to us and the whole community. In the Desus Group, we share the view that vaccination has been scientifically proven to be the most effective and safe preventive measure to prevent the spread of communicable diseases. Collective protection, which also protects all individuals who are banned from vaccination by medical indications, must remain at a high level and professional and scientific level when amending such important legislative content. The bill, which we have mostly signed in the Desus Group, wants to raise the level of overlap above the critical limit of 95% necessary for the development of collective immunity. In Slovenia the number of children who are not vaccinated or are not fully vaccinated under the prescribed programme has increased in recent years, although they do not have any medical reasons to leave. The text therefore includes content relating to access to public and public funding for private kindergartens, enrolment in schools and colleges in the fields of education, education, health and social protection, and also defines a stricter procedure for applying for suspension of vaccination. In line with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the competent Ministry of Health, the text of the bill therefore contains all the key points at this point. In the Desus Group, we are aware of the importance of an appropriate health system and the fact that for a healthy collective we are not enough an individual, but that we must all participate, so we believe that with appropriate cooperation, advice and education in this area a percentage of collective protection will return to a safe level. Usual health is beginning to be appreciated when it is threatened, but on such important issues we need to keep in mind all those individuals whose health is fragile today. Therefore, when considering the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infectious Diseases, which we will support in the Desus Group, and with the latest information on the number of infectious diseases with the new Coronavirus on the spot of appeal to all of us, let us follow the instructions of the profession, so that we do our utmost not to unnecessarily endanger the health of others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u70	Once again a nice greeting to all present! We will undoubtedly support the law in the SNS Group. We express our support for the reason that the law is professionally prepared and that it follows the current professional guidelines. We have always advocated compulsory vaccination in the Slovenian National Party Group. It should be noted that the law in question regulates compulsory vaccination for measles, mumps, rubella, pertussis and other diseases, but not vaccination against the new covid-19 virus. Vaccination is one of the most cost-effective ways to avoid disease. Compulsory vaccination shall primarily ensure the safety of the individual and, of course, of the fellow human beings. Therefore, persons who cannot and must not be vaccinated for such or other reasons shall be protected. The decision to avoid vaccination and not allow it in their offspring is a threat to progress in the eradication of a disease that can be prevented by the vaccine. It seems to us that the new law imposes a restriction on the inclusion of unvaccinated children in publicly and publicly funded kindergartens. It is also a good decision that vaccination is required when enrolling in school curricula for future staff in the field of health, education and education and social protection. At this point, I would like to point out that we share the opinion of the World Health Organisation in the work where it marked hesitations or rejections of vaccination for one of the top ten threats at global level. The bill follows the profession, which means it is a professional and not a political issue. All the professions have taken a unified view that huge efforts are being made to overcome the current diseases and those we do not know yet with safe and effective vaccines. The issue of vaccination shall be decided by the State. The state determines how it will be, and so it must be. Such a decision takes care of the welfare of the entire population. If the child gets sick, the cost of treatment falls on all taxpayers, as the opponents of vaccination do not take responsibility in order to take care of these costs themselves. There is no point in communicating with opponents of vaccination, as this is a purely professional question. The profession tells you how it is, and that is to be taken into account. Pika. We miss the active role of the National Institute for Public Health in this issue, which would raise awareness of the benefits of vaccination. We expect the National Institute for Public Health to pay more attention in the future to informing people, especially in schools, and to take clear views on media releases. This authority should be empowered under the law on offences in the sense that it can impose fines and other sanctions on those editors who allow distorted statements by opponents of vaccination. These are reports that are detrimental to the situation in the country. Many times, opponents argue against the various theories of conspiracy, to which people like to listen by nature, because the latter are somehow new or hidden. The fact is that most people still rely on vaccines, so here I call on people to stand back from those who spread fear among conspiracy theories, because it is some kind of extreme. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Rosec will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u72	Nice greetings to all present. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Infectious Diseases was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party. Amendments were proposed to introduce an electronic register of vaccinated persons; parents should no longer be able to apply for the suspension of the vaccination of their child but a paediatric child; that the admission of a child to a public and publicly co-financed private kindergarten is possible only if the child is vaccinated under a compulsory programme and that compulsory vaccination against seasonal influenza is compulsory for workers in health and social institutions and persons enrolled in secondary and higher education institutions and colleges who are educated in the field of health. The proposal for amendments to the Act, which was tabled in the procedure, was amended by the Health Committee of the mother, in almost all articles. However, the changes we are considering today relate to mandatory medical documentation to be annexed by parents in the event of a proposal to suspend the vaccination of their child, to refuse the inclusion of the unvaccinated child in kindergarten, if the paediatric certificate on the health status of the child indicates that the child has not been vaccinated against measles, mumps and rubellas, and for this reason does not exist for medical reasons, and that candidates who are enrolled in the secondary and higher education institutes and in the field of health must be denied admission of vaccination in accordance with the vaccination programme. In Slovenia, too, the number of children who have not been vaccinated or are undervaccinated has increased in recent years, although vaccination against certain infectious diseases is mandatory. Slovenian pediatricians and doctors are concerned, some parents refuse vaccination because of different beliefs, which are due to some news and records on the world web, spread by professionally unsupervised persons or even anonymous commentators. It would be appropriate to leave the decision of the compulsory vaccination measure to the profession. The profession considers that vaccination is scientifically proven and the most appropriate preventive measure to prevent communicable diseases has a positive effect on the whole community and thus on public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present as the last position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u74	Before us is finally the final part of the law on infectious diseases, which has actually been raging spirits for many, many years. But very few people know that in fact there are more than 300 vaccines in the world in preclinical stages of first and second and third stages of the test, more than 300 new vaccines are said to be received by this society on Earth. Only 137 of these 300 vaccines are intended for viral disease. All others are designed for various diseases, such as autoimmune diseases, cancer, and everything else that actually saves our lives in one way or another. Interestingly, there is no fight against any of the other vaccines at all. The fight is always just against the vaccines they make, which are stable, for all those we deal with today and even talk to. Therefore, such a law, which introduces certain changes, needs only to be warmly welcomed. And congratulations to the proponents that they had the courage and sense to continue this journey. But the problem is always in detail. In its phase of the proposal, this law has already undergone a radical change, which would also have a decisive effect on the self-discipline of our society. This is that the part of the text that speaks of compulsory vaccination of healthcare workers and workers in social institutions has been eliminated. Why is this so important? Imagine a preventive programme where we persuade Slovenian citizens and citizens to be vaccinated and thereby create social immunization. And this is suggested by someone who actually doesn't want to be vaccinated, a nurse, a doctor. How, then, can we believe in the intersection of society? It is therefore not the case that the debate at this level needs to be opened in any way. And to talk about all the details of people who don't trust this vaccination program, the transplantation of society, the vaccines. It is necessary to end the story of what the composition of the vaccine is and about some data protection because of this and that, in order to make it easier to sell or that someone has only a certain benefit. It's a matter of national interest. And this is most important if we really believe it and if we want to have a healthy society. To this end, we have also prepared amendments in the parliamentary group, which return mandatory interception for both health workers and social workers. At the same time, we provide for amendments to the criminal provisions and thus for those diseases where vaccination is compulsory for children who have now fallen out of this proposal and are reduced to practically three mandatory vaccinations. This is what we want to fix, to improve the law itself. And I hope that reason and decency don't come from the government and the doctors don't decide. That's up to the National Assembly. This is up to us, Members and Members of Parliament. Let me finish with this thesis. In the last few days, I myself have received, I have recounted them this morning, over 300 e-mails, chain letters, which are exactly the same, other names, which is that we will be liable for damages if we adopt such a law. Please, Members and Members, Article 82 is clear, no one, including opponents of the vaccination programme, can and must not influence Members and Members, especially when it comes to the benefit of society! That is why I support this bill and we will support it in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 24 September. Since the amendments of the LMŠ Group to Articles 3 and 6 are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. I am therefore putting these two members of the LMŠ Group to the debate. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. No one wants to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. Once again, I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I've asked you three times. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u76	Of course, the debate is necessary because of the amendments themselves and because of the reasons themselves. We discussed on the Committee why this provision, which talked about compulsory vaccination of healthcare workers and workers in social institutions, was actually excluded. The Secretary of State's response was very simple and simple – it is a disproportionate measure. A disproportionate measure, which is intended to be so strong and to accompany its explanation, is also an attempt by preventive programmes and awareness-raising to achieve this inoculation among the most vulnerable groups in addition to those in need of the vaccine at the time, namely health workers and social security workers who are in fact confronted with the mass of sick children or patients who come to them for treatment. But we need to know the following. In my own explanation, I have already said that it is problematic to say that a doctor and a nurse do not need compulsory vaccination, but the child needs it. These explanations just don't work together. How can we convince parents that it is compulsory for children and not health workers? That's what this thing is all about. If I'm healthy, why would I get vaccinated? This thinks a lot of nurses and doctors who are in this process and working every day. I myself had colleagues, nurses, and not least of my fellow doctors who said, "No, I won't get vaccinated." And I said, "Yeah, how can you advise someone else to get a vaccine?" Of course they didn't have an argument. I also asked the Secretary of State to give me at least one professional argument, not that this is disproportionate, but a professional argument that will endure, so that we Members and Members can understand why healthcare workers do not need to be vaccinated. She couldn't answer that or she didn't want it or she didn't know it. I don't know, I'm speculating, I have no idea, but I didn't get the answer. However, I can tell you this: the Constitutional Court has expressed a very clear reply in its decision about whether this is an excessive measure or not, and it has made the following very clear. Dragica Wedam-Lukić, who then covered this part, the then constitutional judge, said very clearly: "51. The article of the Constitution makes it very clear that no one can force anyone to be treated.” And from this title, in the title of this provision, many today defend that they will not be vaccinated because they always decide on their own body and treatment. The Constitutional Court has confirmed this in the part where it says the following that, indeed, we cannot force anyone to undergo any treatment until we have carefully and thoroughly taught him what will happen to his body or what will bring about the results of this treatment. Only then can an uneducated person decide whether or not to be treated. However, the following point is made, which is very important: “The right to refuse treatment is not absolute, since the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia expressly allows in the third paragraph of this Article to be restricted in cases specified by law.” And one of the facts that this decision has brought about is that, when it comes to the interest of security and broad overlap, it is permissible to do so. That is why this cannot be an excessive measure, Madam Secretary of State. I don't know where you've read this, I don't know who advised you, I don't know where you got it, where you got it, from where you got it, from where you got it, but the fact is that it can't be a professional argument that it fell out of law. I don't know. I don't know. Responding to a measure that could compensate for this is the following, if any, act of protection at work today provides that those who are in contact and are likely to be threatened by such or different risks of impact and environment are also subject to vaccination and so on and so on. On the Health Committee, we have made it very clear that this provision of this law has not been implemented for many years. The centres of medicine and sports don't take that into account, and that's why it's a dead letter on paper. Why are you talking out loud today? Today this has been said behind the box as an explanation by the government representative that it is sufficient, if this is already stated in this law. No, it's not. It's not. It is more than clear that this is also the reason why the grafting has begun to decline. Even for that, not just that. Therefore, of course, it makes sense for this measure to return. With this, we will be most honest, if we really want to protect this way, I will say, and to keep this intersection, which is also discussed by the Constitutional Court in its decision, that when it is possible to rule on the basis of Article 51 of the Constitution whether I will be treated or not, even when deciding on children when parents decide on their behalf, the Constitutional Court has said more than clearly that if it is a matter of falling severation, it is possible to regulate and prescribe this by law. The Constitutional Court has also very clearly answered the question of all those who are concerned today and are opening these questions with a password and a reason, an apology, if my child is not vaccinated, that does not mean that everyone else will be vaccinated and will be assured why then this fear of my child being unvaccinated in this society. There's a very simple reason and the answer is in the palm of your hand. Because it is not necessary for the vaccine to receive and unvaccinated children anywhere at all times, it can also endanger other children. It is imperative to say this out loud so that we can understand the meaning of full fidelity. Of course, the possibility that the child is not vaccinated at a time when the profession, I stress, the profession, not the internet profession and internet research and internet experts and self-care professionals, provides that, for such or other professional reasons, such a vaccine may even harm the child during a certain period of time. Therefore, I also welcome the solutions in the law that clearly determine how and in what way a child can be prevented from being vaccinated, and that it is mainly the part of the provision that allowed parents to avoid and in some way transpose the procedure today, that the child has not actually been vaccinated and that he has missed all hands and that he has not actually been vaccinated as such. That is why I really appeal, and one of the reasons why I initially said that it is up to Members and Members to decide that today, on the one hand, it is also a historic opportunity to cut off this agony of this unreasonable defence of vaccination even in such a way that we show that this compulsory vaccination is also for all those who are in the greatest contact with patients or are on the first battle line to also infect themselves when the infection occurs. Explain to me how parents would trust someone, such as a nurse or a doctor, if they do not actually need to be vaccinated, and convince him that it is appropriate for him to be vaccinated. In addition, a provision in the law referring to the vaccination programme no longer refers to any possible communicable diseases for which vaccinations were compulsory. As a representative of the Government, the Secretary of State said that they were already prescribed as mandatory, but only for certain types of vaccines that are now mandatory, but they turned out to be hepatitis B, they dropped tetanus, they fell out of a cough. I remember Dr. Ihan's lecture myself, who said he didn't understand all those who didn't want to be vaccinated against donkey cough. Today, however, we are listening to the proposaler, the Government, who says that this is no longer mandatory or meaningless. I have to say, this is kind of news to me. Yes, I understand, because I have long accepted that the profession is also divided, but there is no longer a question of profession or profession, here is now only a question of decisions. The profession has long told itself what is right, so we do not need to discover new hot water. If these amendments are adopted today, I am aware that the last provisions will also have to be laid down in the third reading in the transitional provisions. This can still be said, so it is truly sincere to invite all those who give something to the intersection of society to support the proposals of the amendments to improve this law, which is urgently needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State also made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to explain the problem of this provision. In addition to regular vaccination, you added seasonal flu for employees in the public health network and social welfare institutions. These are employed people and employers are obliged to ensure standards of safety and health at work. Thus, the assessment of this obligation should be based on the workplace risk assessment. With full respect for the Law on Safety and Health at Work and its provisions in Article 17, we would actually achieve the same objective, namely, the high level of overlap between employees. If this were to be recorded and accepted, this would in fact mean a ban on working with patients for employees in the public health network and social welfare institutions, if they were not, say, vaccinated against the flu. I agree with you that influenza vaccination is an extremely important public health measure that is important for healthcare professionals, and I am also being vaccinated against influenza, and I believe that this influenza vaccination is particularly important in a certain segment of health workers’ paws. In the extreme, especially now during the covid-19 epidemic and with the already present human resources malnutrition of health workers, I am interested in what they would do. Would they be banned from work, transferred, forgiven if we did not already have them? Thus, I think that the provision you propose would create a very unconceived measure and, with full respect for the existing law, achieve the same objective. Here, however, I join your opinion that the high level of inoculation of workers in health care and social welfare institutions is our goal. This can also be achieved by empowering, by education and perhaps by less restrictive measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer first applied for the debate and then the other debaters.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u80	It's interesting to think like that. I'll serve with another comparison. Tell me why today those in health schools and colleges who want to go to a hospital for practice or work in these areas have to bring a certificate of compulsory vaccination. Why does this apply to students and students but not to employees? Do you understand me? These things just don't go together. We like to take care of children, so we like to take care of students. We say students have to be protected. But for the workers, we say that it is a disproportionate measure or even an unconceived one, and now I have even received a new word coin. Inconceivable. Please, Secretary of State. While I understand you must defend certain positions, there is simply no professional argument. The fact that we are particularly ahead of us now that we lack health workers so that this can mean, as you might say, a kind of rash is quite funny. If we might be lucky as a society like all of us, all the countries on this planet to get the vaccine next year, I hope, that's what we're talking about, we even have a vaccine reservation, if it comes to it, I wonder how we're going to vaccinate health workers. Are we going to make regulations there or what are we going to do? I'm sorry. I don't understand that anymore. People will be waiting in rows, they will want to be vaccinated for covid-19 with the vaccine, I don't know what it'll be called, whatever it is, irrelevant, but today we're discussing that this is a disproportionate measure, that it wouldn't be nice and that it doesn't make sense to force people, because you know the Law, even from the point of view of the Constitutional Court, but I don't want to hear that this is an unconstitutional measure. [[…]] Because it's not. So it's fear or fear somewhere else. It's not a problem, I understand. Say it out loud, we're afraid of anything, but let's stop bluffing each other with some verbal connections that don't cover the argument. We have a serious problem. We are fighting against having a mutilated society, but at the same time, in certain groups, we are blocking this task, an obligation to vaccinate them. The same is true of them. If they cannot be vaccinated for such or other reasons, the profession will decide. Not us, not you, no one. They won't be vaccinated. I'll tell you, I hate to say it out loud, but, sorry, we have one serious problem and we have to say it out loud. There are some doctors who say that as long as they're healthy, they don't inject toxins into their bodies. If that's the problem, let's face it. Only then can we stop being philosophical about the need for a stricken society. What it costs, what the financial consequences are, I'll tell you. Everything that is financial, as far as compulsory vaccination is concerned, is always cheaper than what follows if there is no transplantation. Since there is then a lack of abstention, then disability problems can occur, there can be permanent exclusion from work, there can be disruption of complete work processes, not least there is a decline in population, there is a nation. It's no longer a matter of whimsy of individuals, because he thinks it's so nice or something he doesn't like. That's the problem with society. It's called a network of interlaced systems, which I keep talking about. When one dominoes fall, they fall all over the dominoes. I know, and I understand. It's disgusting to hear that. But we have to do something as a society. Are we mature? Okay, I'll understand if we're not mature, we're not mature. Only as soon as the word splinters the society, will I know who was never ready to decide. In this coalition, I'll admit out loud, I'm glad that SMC kept at least this courage to keep the law and move on with it. Because if you were preparing this law government, you'd have a much harder problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u81	Thank you very much. First of all, please accept my apology, Mr Rajić, because I have overlooked you as a candidate because you have applied for the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u82	Thank you very much and an apology accepted. I would first touch on this dilemma, which colleague Möderndorfer was also talking about. In some ways, as a proposaler, one deviation from the original purpose and one surprise was this comment by the profession in order to abandon the idea of compulsory vaccination against seasonal influenza for healthcare, care and social protection workers. And I also imagined how and what and listened to the arguments made by the Secretary of State. However, I also spoke to the doctors I meet in my private life, and in some ways the conclusion was that, practically at this point in time, when we have a specific set of health and health-care personnel, we cannot play with the possibility that due to a legal provision that would not correspond to one tenth, one fifth or one-twenty of these professionals, there would be some sort of boycott that would absolutely paralyze the nation and lead to a practical collapse of the entire system. In the light of this fellow who surrounds us, this is somehow more visible, so it seems to me that it is right, even though I understand my colleague, because we once formed this law together, that we really have one intersection at which we now have to decide: whether a greater risk or a smaller risk. It is a logical decision to lower the risk of suspension of compulsory vaccination for healthcare professionals against seasonal influenza. At the same time, I must point out that most people say that they are being vaccinated on a regular basis. We must not forget that we are not now talking about amateur scientists who make decisions based on what the beans showed when they lied to them, but they are health workers, highly educated or highly educated, who are clearly aware of the consequences and what that means. If we look at the interception of our population against seasonal flu, I still hope to claim that this is the highest among doctors, nurses, nurses, nurses. So this isn't as big a problem as it is in this place right now. But first of all, I have to say that you have to decide when it comes to two evils that are smaller. In this sense, this decision has come to this final step in this way. That is why I have given the Minister of Health the initiative to provide all healthcare workers, care workers and social welfare with free vaccination against seasonal influenza. In public health institutions, this has already been carried out to some extent, but in private homes for the elderly and other institutions, which employers do not offer to their employees, in this sense the state would jump in and create a level playing field for all. That is, if he wants to feel healthy and is aware of the importance of not being burdened by the cost resulting from this. Because of the slightly lower salaries that people in health care have, for example, I believe that this is what they are looking at, and it is the right thing to do. Whether the doctor and the nurse are aware of the importance of vaccination against seasonal flu, I think so. Because, practically to them, when it comes to our health, to our lives, we place our lives practically on the heart not only of the body, but of the life and outcome of life during treatment. So if it's people like that, then I really think we can believe that they make decisions based on the conscience and knowledge they have. Brother Ivanus mentioned the responsibility of opposers of vaccination. There is not much to add here, but I feel responsible that in view of these pressures being exerted on us – by the way, it is only today generated at 2 thousand 300 e-mails to the main office of the National Assembly with the same text, so they are going into some generic process that is simply exploiting these options that are available. I think it would be right for anyone to stand up publicly, these celebrities, who are so loud in proclaiming freedom through the right to non-vaccination and the threat of the entire nation, that they may also offer part of their assets as a guarantee of the credibility of their claims. But as we know, that's not gonna happen. Another thing highlighted by my fellow Jew, which I greatly appreciate, even when it comes to the medical field, is that he is more educated than all of us in this regard, so it is to some extent surprising that today he is opposed to this law, even though it was not so on the committee. But he highlighted a fact that may be problematic, and that is the only thing we really need to insist together that reports on safety studies of vaccines must not remain a secret or must not hide and withdraw from the public under some banal pretext that it is a business secret. This must never happen again, but I think that the Ministry of Health already has in mind or that it is already acting in this sense and that we will no longer have problems. They call for a joint effort to address those who do not believe in vaccination. I agree, but in this sense I have expected a possible amendment to that which they do not see in this proposal of the Law on Infectious Diseases is good enough to pass. Unfortunately, my colleagues didn't do it. I'm talking about a fellow Jew when he invited us to do this. But I am sorry that we are closing or closing the procedure today, and I also thank my colleagues from the LMŠ, who have actively cooperated and proposed amendments. I'd like to take a brief look at these amendments. The 51.a amendment, when it comes to including a child in kindergarten, seems to me to open up a lot more opportunities for abuse and diversion than for actual help, because if a child were involved in kindergarten and was unvaccinated, because the procedure for exemption from vaccination and its vaccination is not checked until the next school year, when it is possible to go to school and no longer to kindergarten, it would mean that the whole school year has been going to kindergarten and would represent a potential health risk for the whole kindergarten or its surroundings. In this sense, I do not understand if this is sufficiently thoughtful and sophisticated, as it is written. I'm afraid, despite my desire to cooperate, I find this difficult to accept because I don't believe it. I don't know if you've noticed on these social networks where the battles for theirs are getting more and more hot, it's already talking about how this system can be resisted against compulsory vaccination, even though the number of diseases against which it is being vaccinated has been reduced, but it's not good anymore. When it comes to this, it is clear that, for example, the entire school year will be much more used to avoid vaccination, and for this reason I do not see that this amendment really comes to the heart of our problem or to the solution of our problem. But when it comes to the next part of the amendment, 51.c., for the people in the health network, I would probably support it if we had doctors in stock. But since we know what we're dealing with, and because for a doctor, even if he's qualified to go to high school for further study, we need seven, eight, at least six years to really get it, we just can't play with it. Finally, I would like to thank all those who have participated in this debate and who have recognised the need to improve as a system, as a society, what threatens us to threaten our future. In addition, we initially had the idea that pediatricians themselves would make recommendations for children who needed to be released from vaccination, but that did not come alive. We got a response from the pediatricians that this solution doesn't suit them because it's putting too much work into them. I'm afraid it was a fear of too many conflicts with parents that would require it, but it's good to explain that it was the idea that a pediatrician, like having electronic electronic apps of an electronic recipe, an electronic hospital and the rest, would be an application arranged in such a way that only with the confirmation of the disease or indications that the child has, in order to automatically generate an application to the commission for exemption from vaccination, would be sent out, that is to say, the same moment. So that wouldn't be a lot of work. But as I say, in the end we had to face the reality that the profession is the one that is the only one to give correct reflections to all that we have offered as a system policy. Since this response was negative, we decided that in the future parents would activate in this regard to make these proposals supported by appropriate medical documentation available to the Commission. This cannot be a free file in which parents can easily explain that a child is afraid of a needle and that it makes it impossible to vaccinate him because he is not aware of all the other consequences. I think there will still be a debate that this is not my last word, so it is not the final word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u83	Thank you very much. There's more mag in the word. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thank you, Madam President. I don't know if it's a replica or if it's my turn, it's the same anyway. Not that I'd want an over-controversy, that's all I want to say. Mr Rajić, if you have time, we can go together to look at the committee and you will see that my debate on the committee was quite similar to the debate here today in this great hall. If you have time, we can do it next week. But remember that even there, we did not support the Social Democrats, we abstained. But we didn't support it. Why? Because we have asked the Secretary of State to essentially provide us with two documents to finally provide this answer, which we have been waiting for for three years. And we got him, so thanks for that. But he's not enough to be satisfied. You've heard that it's actually written inside or that it's clear what happened. The same or similar people who wrote the decision wrote why nothing could be done. But the government can, even if there's a mistake in marriage, it can. And that, Mr Rajić, is also glad that your Group of Members wants to go this way. We have the right to information, cover up the synthesis, cover up everything else as a business secret, and we have the right to information. Another thing I'd like to say. Interestingly, we share a similar position, but we do share a similar position. We believe that it is necessary to have a high cross-section, we believe that we have a mandatory, which is already prescribed, by the way, only steps we see differently. You know, there is one of the top Slovenian pediatricians on this committee when they asked him why not, why not, why not remove the law, even compulsory vaccination, and those who haven't yet, are pediatricians and so on, he said that this is our conscience, but if we go with repression, we will get it, and now I read you three words that he said, "you will get the order of coercion, rebellion." Order, coercion, mutiny. I want to tell you that, in fact, you could make me an amendment where it would be written, but from tomorrow on, trust will be 95%. I'm kidding. You understand. With such amendments, we cannot gain additional confidence from legislative acts at the level of those who do not trust me. But there's a big group of people who don't trust. I respect them, I will not speak ill of them, these are our citizens and citizens. They don't trust them. They're scared. But I believe we all have a big problem. When we look at what false news means in the political, social, health, and medical fields at this point, our lives have been poisoned so that we can barely learn to swim and walk. What we believe, however, is that perhaps repression is not the right step. Maybe it is, and we'll see it in time. Just the Ministry, also for that, Madam Secretary of State, thank you, I did not send this, you sent us a plan of measures to increase confidence for 2017, 2018 and 2019 and renewed January 2020. Perhaps even this is because, in fact, transplantation in 2019 has increased not much, but noticeably. Perhaps the good work of the ministry, NIJZ, pediatricians and pediatricians and other professions, and this has turned the trend upwards. In some areas, we have again approached 95 % of the interception, but mistrust remains high and will need to be measured again. And this path, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, is correct. We all have the same goal, we want high transplantation, we believe in mandatory vaccination for the worst diseases. We're just talking about the road. If we don't see the same path, I respect you as much as I did before, there's no reason to respect you less. But our request is to try the harder way, because it is our citizens and our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u85	I see there's still interest in the debate. First he gets the word "proposer." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam President. Just that we need to understand each other, in a way, was the reason that we did even, if you want, this one step back. But I cannot help but overlook the fact that as the number of opponents of vaccination grew more than some movement, more and more colleagues became understanding of them. So when we say our citizens and citizens, one can probably say our electorate slowly. But let's just leave it. I'm more interested today in this phenomenon of repression that we're talking about. We know through history what repression can be. But you know, someone decides not to vaccinate their child and somehow look at it and you regret doing it to a child that way of life, and you understand, you almost understand, but to endanger other children, it's almost a crime. And for this it does not follow the punishment, followed only the notice “Your child will be able to go to a private kindergarten, unfortunately not going to public.” If this is repression, I really don't understand whether everyone understands the meaning of that word, because it really isn't some kind of severe repression, even if it happens to prevent a child from being given polio by such a measure. I ask you nicely, but I understand what the motivations are today in these debates, but I still think that we have done very carefully with regard to this repression, that we have considered things, that when it comes to fear, that there would be consequences that would be worse than what we have today and in the situation that surrounds us today, that we have been very creatively engaged in the design of this law and that we have adapted it to the needs or conditions that are around us today. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer also took the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u88	It's interesting when someone says that we all think the same way, we all have the same goal, we just have a different view of individual issues. We can have similar goals, but we do not have the same goal. If we had the same goal, we would also know what the same steps are so that we can reach that goal. Except for that theory when they say let's make such a bend that we get to the same goal or go straight. I always respect different thinkers. I always respect that there is a higher and lower degree of trust. However, I cannot understand or accept, when the profession has already told its own, so medical and legal that now politics is essentially putting on technique and is essentially trying to hide behind emotions, emotions and not least understanding. A certain percentage of the population will never, but I stress, will never understand whether it will not understand certain questions or demands, because it is everywhere in society and it is always so. That's why I don't believe we'll get a hundred percent cut at any time. We'll never get a hundred percent cut. Not because there will always be a certain percentage of children or adults who should not be vaccinated. And that makes sense. But that politics doesn't want to take responsibility, that's something else, and I'm essentially calling for that. As for the amendment, it's very short. We'll vote on Tuesday. There's still a lot of time until Tuesday. If amendments are accepted, they may be corrected in the third reading. And if we care about compromise or common will, then we can. Otherwise, I don't think you can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. If not, I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided on Tuesday 29 September in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is the third defence proposal for the Law on Trade Amendments and Supplements. The draft law was accompanied by a group of eight Members and Members with the first-signed Luka Mesec. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant. Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u90	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! We begin the third hearing of the closing of trade laws on Sundays. The aim of the Left as a proponent is clear from the start, that is to provide 30,000 people working in the store with a free week. In fact, these people are in an intolerable position of chastity. Traders and merchants are poorly paid and their schedules are unenviable. Members and Members of Parliament received 11 pages of the letters sent to us by the employees in the store, describing their situation prior to the consideration of this law on the home committee. For example, an employed merchant, a mother, works in a food trade, is employed by a six-day worker, which means, as it herself says, that within two weeks she is free, of which once a week and once a week. You can imagine what her family life looks like. He's got one Sunday free in two weeks. When it is available during the week, as others write, most of the day spends on cleaning, cooking, and so on, and virtually nothing relaxes while the husband is at work and the children are in kindergarten. This is just one of the stories of these 30,000 workers and workers whose fates you will decide in your vote today. The opinion in the public is very clear. Trade unions conducted a survey among their members that showed that 98% of trade union members support closing trade on Sundays. In doing so, other trade unions expressed their unanimous support. Letters were written by trade unions of teachers, nurses, innkeepers, firefighters, caregivers, and so on. One thing is clear: those who work alone on Sundays, such as nurses, caregivers, innkeepers, have expressed the greatest solidarity with the employees in the store and are most welcome to them so that at least they can enjoy a week off. This is not just the opinions of employees or just trade union research. The Lidl chain itself conducted a survey among its employees, which showed that 90% of Lidl employees support closing trade on Sundays. Although in Lidl there are supplements for Sunday work among the greatest, people preferred to say: “We don’t want these supplements, give us a week off.” Finally, to remind again, so is the opinion of the Slovenian public. This is the first time she has expressed her opinion at the 2003 referendum and is consistently repeated in public opinion polls showing 75.80% support for Slovenians and Slovenians closing trade on Sundays. Of course, there is one segment of society that opposes it. They're big traders. Not small merchants, because small merchants are taken care of in the marriage with the amendment we've agreed upon. Entrepreneurs owners, small store managers will be able to work on Sundays. Big stores are about to close. And only big stores are currently not entirely in the interest of this law. Therefore, the Chamber of Commerce is trying to introduce several exceptions to the law through the SMC via various amendments, which seem innocent in themselves, but before we begin the third hearing, I would like to remind you that these exceptions are not innocent. These exceptions introduce potential anti-constitutions into the law and thus show the purpose of the opponents of the law. They must have counted that they could not stop him in the National Assembly because most of the members of the parliamentary groups favored the law. Therefore, they will try to challenge the Constitutional Court by introducing unconstitutional provisions into the law after the adoption of the Law and repeat what we saw in 2003 and 2004. I therefore call on you to support the amendment of the Left, which is constitutionally consistent, which is in the interest of workers and small traders to realize the desire, the long-standing desire of employees and the will of citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Simon Zajc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u92	Dear Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted an opinion on the proposal for an amendment to the Trade Act, submitted by the group of Members and Members with the first signed Luke Moon to the National Assembly on 12 May this year, that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, mainly due to the consequences of the proposed closure for economic operators in the field of trade and other related activities and consequently for their employees. At the same time, the government is aware that the proposal for a law responds to the understandable and justified calls made by employees in trade, and has therefore called for a social dialogue in which the social partners would seek new solutions in relation to Sunday work, as was the last time that the new collective agreement on trade activities agreed that workers were free on holidays, with the exception of exceptions. Thus, most stores are all 15 holidays closed and Sunday’s work is limited to 12 weeks a year, representing less than 2 weeks a month. The collective agreement on trade activities is still in force until the end of 2022. As we have been informed, there has not been a social dialogue so far, which we regret, because we believe that such a problem should be resolved along this path rather than through the amendment of the trade law governing the working hours of shops and not the working hours of employees. The recovery time is in the domain of the trader who is required by law to take into account the number of employees in the shop and their rights, obligations and responsibilities under the employment relationship established by the law governing the working relationship and the collective agreement in the field of trade activities of Slovenia, in particular the provisions relating to the regulation of working time, breaks, rest and allowances resulting from the redeployment of workers to less favourable working hours. In Austria, which the applicant refers to as an example, it is held closed on Sundays on the basis of the 1983 law governing the period of rest. Austria is, however, the only neighbouring countries with closed shops on Sundays, with numerous exceptions that are established at the country level and have evolved over the years, and can therefore vary from country to country. The same applies to Germany. Croatia, Italy and Hungary have their operating hours liberalised, and the same is true for most European Union countries, since according to available data from 2018, trade operations in the European Union are limited to 11 countries on Sundays and in other countries on Sundays. In addition to the fact that the Trade Act is not a suitable place to address such issues, as mentioned above, we are also concerned about the consequences that a measure may have in an already tight economic situation for trade, its employees, suppliers, tourist destinations. Trade is a strategic sector for the Slovenian economy as it generates almost 35% of income from the sale of the economy and employs slightly less than 18% of employees in the economy, which is one of the largest employers in the national economy. At a time when a number of measures to mitigate and eliminate the effects of the new Coronavirus are aimed at promoting economic activity and preserving jobs, we believe that measures that can act in the opposite direction should be taken with care and with a great degree of responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first one gets the word mag. Branislav Rajić. He will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u94	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. Hello! In the SMC, we advocate a free economic initiative and such interventions by the State, which are proportionate, carefully thought out and do not mean an excessive breach of the social agreement with negative economic consequences. In such a difficult time, however, this is even more true. We are a socio-liberal party, and we are aware that closing trade on Sundays and working off days will lead to more surplus workers, lower wages, dismissal of employees and, consequently, the decline in our country's economic indicators. As a result of the ongoing epidemic, the Slovenian economy has been considerably cut down over the last six months. The additional exacerbation of the economic situation is certainly not desirable for any of us, so such changes to the legislation, particularly at this time, are completely unnecessary and pointless. Many have already lost their jobs, the labour market has lost its ideal image in recent years. Our primary objective in the future must be to devote all our knowledge, experience and activities to the preparation and implementation of as many measures as possible after the economic shock that will restart the Slovenian economy and put it on the track of success. The measures proposed in this amendment would, however, have exactly the opposite effects. They would not contribute to the conservation and creation of new jobs, would not increase production, demand and consumption, nor would they contribute to the increase in public finances and economic growth. We note that the bill comes at an entirely inappropriate time and departs from all reasonable measures that have been taken in recent months to minimise the adverse effects of the crown of the crisis. Quality of living free time with a family is an important value, but the law cannot interfere with the individual’s free choice and his autonomous decision when he will work and where, and when he will realize his wishes and needs, even the simplest ones, such as shopping. The debate on whether trade should be closed on Sundays always carries with it some ideologically valuable omen. SMC, as a social-liberal party, always stands for the individual's personal freedom and choice in which, if at all, the State must intervene with discretion and rationality. And above all, do not determine the habits of life, how we spend our free time and how we behave on any day of the week, whether it's Sunday or Thursday. We are pleased and collegiately grateful that the proposed amendment of our parliamentary group was adopted in the second reading of the Proposal for a new Trade Act with the help of some coalition and opposition members. This enables students, students and pensioners to work on Sundays and work off days. With today's third reading of the bill, we have tabled another amendment to the SMC to allow family members of the independent entrepreneur or legal representative of the legal person who carries out the trade activity to work on Sundays and holidays. In addition, we propose a supplement that the operating time of the shops could be set without limit to a maximum of 10 weeks per year. This also coincides with the content of the 2003 trade closure referendum. The bill is an exception, where they can also work on Sundays and holidays, only some sales outlets are listed. Complaints arise that the proposal for a law interferes with the equality of business entities, that certain criteria are applicable to them and that others are not. In this regard, in the event of the adoption of this amendment, there is an emerging intention to propose an initiative to assess the constitutionality and legality of this law. Otherwise, it would make sense to consider extending the list of exceptions where trade could be opened even on Sundays and holidays, in camps, in health resorts, marinas and hotels, as well as the referendum issue of hotels, as this is crucial for supporting tourism, our promising industries. We need to be aware that in these stores, on Sundays and holidays, traffic is far from the top. Adoption of the law would result in a fall in earnings and job losses. Tourism without trade is simply not, which is also confirmed by the regulation of operating time in virtually all countries of the European Union. Once again, we stress that we cannot and must not afford the proposed changes today in the epidemic and before the projected economic and social crisis. Therefore, in the SMC, it would make sense for the discussion on the abolition of Sunday and holiday operating hours to be postponed to a time when the situation would allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The trade sector is one of the most profitable activities in this country. Net profit is approaching €1 billion in this sector. As governments have in the past unwisely led the privatisation policy, we have virtually no longer a serious trade chain owned by national ownership. These chains are privatized, they usually have a seat somewhere else, and all these strong profits, and they're poured out abroad. What does Slovenia have out of all these privatised shops? Places of work, someone will be in a hurry to respond. But let's ask ourselves what kind of jobs these are. Traders, especially merchants, work in the cash registers for a minimum wage. If. The shelves are often filled by students, on miserable items, in warehouses by agency workers, at any time threatened with losing their jobs. The least we should do is help these people. So we close the store on Sunday. All employees in the trading industry who leave their brains and their hands in them deserve a day off. Exactly this is what we wanted to do in Levica and to achieve a referendum result from a long, long time ago, which is sad to see its implementation in Slovenian legislation. All these merchants who work from day to day, who cannot plan their lives, are also waiting. At the same time, the merchants and merchants were the ones who brought us through the epidemic. While part of the country could have been at home — and we Members could have worked a little bit from home — the merchants were coming for the cash register, they were coming to fill the shelves, they were exposing their health, they were exposing their families to infection, but they came. How the National Assembly for Their Sacrifice would repay them today, we do not know that. The vote will have to wait. But I hope personally that he will recognize the vitality of their work, that he will recognize how much society relies on all profiles and professions on minimum wages, how powerless we are as a society, in fact, if we lose these people. Today, these people are losing their years of life, losing their health, breaking their backs with wages that they cannot actually live with, and with leisure time that they cannot afford. If we close trade on Sunday, all this mass of employees, on whom society is so essential, will allow them to have at least one day off that they can spend for rest, for recreation that they can spend with their family. Someone will answer and say : “Yes, what about small stores? What about small shops, small owners operating in some more remote places?" Don't worry, that's what we thought about in Levica. Trades with smaller squares may remain open provided they are operated by their owners or their managers. And the wolf is full and the goat is whole. Moreover, in this way we are helping some smaller shops in remote areas. When the big shopping centers are closed on Sundays, maybe people will buy here and there, those who are just needed on the nose on Sunday will be directed to these small shops, and we will take one step, a small step in the truth, but a step forward for a balanced development in this country and also for rural progress. As I have pointed out, these smaller shops, family companies usually operate in slightly more remote places. However, it is absolutely necessary to refuse to allow on Sundays trade to be closed in such a way that they are not closed and, instead of normally employees with regular contracts, with all working rights, retirees and students are released without legal protection on minimum items. This, ladies and gentlemen, has been rejected. This isn't closing down stores on Sunday, it's pre-arrangement stores on Sunday. And we will never agree to this in Levica, especially because this kind of change of our original law with the amendments is only written in to make it easier for later, ladies and gentlemen, for you who are doing this to bring the law into force in the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! In Novi Slovenija we are eager and convinced that the will of voters from seventeen years ago will finally be realized when we decided at the referendum to close trade on Sundays, in the second reading, we supported the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Trade Act, which should also apply the referendum. We are aware, however, that more values must be weighed in the legal regulation of the possibility of trading on Sundays. On the one hand, we have a restriction on business freedom of trade, to freely determine their operating time, and on the other hand, to ensure the possibility of Sunday's rest for traders and traders and the possibility of spending Sunday with their loved ones. However, since a person is certainly ahead of capital, with the support of the law, Members of the New Slovenia gave priority to traders and traders until Sunday's rest and spending the day off with family members, because this is not possible because of the different obligations of family members during the week. The question is also raised as to whether the operation of trade on Sunday is really necessary. In view of the fact that it is possible for commercial activities to purchase the needs they need on Sunday to be done on all other days of the week, no answer is offered to this question. And finally, at the time of the epidemic, when the stores were closed on Sundays, as the nation had already proved that Sunday's trade visits were not necessarily necessary. In Novi Slovenija, until today, we had hoped to have a social dialogue between the Chamber of Commerce and the Trade Workers' Trade Union on the issue of closing trade on Sundays, but unfortunately there was no will. Members of New Slovenia will support in the third reading the amendment of the proposed Law on Trade Amendments and Supplements, which would return the bill to its original form, which has also been adopted on the home working body. In the second reading, an amendment was adopted without our votes, after which students, students and pensioners could work temporarily or occasionally in shops with a sales space of up to 200 square metres on Sundays alongside their owners or legal representatives. We are convinced that the definition of the proposed exceptions would change the substance of the proposed legislation, which prevents employers from giving their workers a Sunday job in commercial activities, thereby denying them the right to rest and family life. The proposed exceptions could also lead to problems without justification in the Constitutional Court. For all these reasons in New Slovenia, we will not support the amendments tabled by the Modern Centre Party, as they bring additional exceptions to the law. By restricting trade on Sundays, we will certainly contribute to the unification of society around the week than the rest day and allow more than 100,000 people in society closest to them. When we weigh this family value with business freedom of trade until Sunday’s operation, however, the weight leans on the side of the family’s values. The family is the foundation on which our society is built. And only if this foundation is solid will the Slovenian society and the Slovenian economy be able to operate in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Marko Bandelli, who will present the position of the SAB delegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u100	Dear Secretary of State, President, colleagues! Today we are deciding on a new trade law. If the novel is adopted, the stores will be closed on Sundays and holidays, just as they were during the epidemic. The Novelo provides for a few exceptions: between the open trade exceptions of up to 200 square metres located on petrol services, border crossings, public transport ports, airports, railway and bus stations and hospitals. The second exception applies to small trades where on Sundays and holidays they are carried out by independent entrepreneurs as operators and legal representatives or procurators. In our second reading, the SAB Group voted in favour of a supplement that allows students, students and those who are allowed by law to do informal work on Sunday. In this way, we have made Sunday work possible for those who occasionally work on Sundays to meet them and bring them the necessary income. Pensioners are included in this category. We are aware that the trade activity represents 34% of the income of the Slovenian economy and that a possible closure on Sundays and holidays could lead to an economic downturn. But on the other hand, Sunday’s trade activity causes considerable social damage, as it discourages the families of traders and traders from having a good time and family life. Trade is also linked to tourism. In the SAB, we have advocated that smaller family trades, which are mainly characteristic of tourist destinations, remain open on Sundays. It is an activity that often survives the entire family and does not employ workers because of the small size of its activities. It is precisely for this reason that we believe that it is right to allow work on Sundays also for family members, trade operators. In the SAB Group, we are aware that today the highest price for open trade on Sundays and holidays is paid by about 20,000 workers and workers in shops, because they have to work on days that are free for most of the other workers in the Republic of Slovenia. In the SAB, we prefer positive values to headless consumption, so today we will unanimously support workers and workers and allow them a decent rest and time for the family. In the SAB Group, we will support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Polnar's next. He will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u102	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Work must be allowed on Sundays. Trade centres have become part of the social infrastructure and people spend a good part of their lives in it, but shopkeepers must be adequately paid to work on Sundays, and they must be able not to work every Sunday. A satisfied seller attracts a satisfied buyer who creates traffic in trade. It's a myth. And so it is with work on Sundays and fraud with it. The general reason for Sunday's work is that the working time of trade is one of the key elements of competition in activities, any restrictions in this area are therefore a threat to limiting economic growth and the social security of all, including those in trade. All participants in a competitive fight must be provided with a space of manoeuvre to better respond to any changes in the business environment. The general reason to oppose Sunday work is relatively simple. Those who are violently expelled from the general life rhythm of the environment are severely affected by this, so that even the economic gains that are likely to occur do not help him much. The weekly rhythm from Monday to the end of the week also belongs to the general nature, so only for very well-founded community reasons can some be asked to give up. The sellers and sellers are granted modest monetary compensation, but it does not appear that their Sunday work would contribute to any special community well-being. Consumer society has, over the past 20 years, metastasized the everyday lives of citizens in a often barely perceived way as something that is self-explanatory and which is pointless to question. Today, it is no longer enough for the consumer to come to the store and buy what he needs, but people are systematically and disturbingly encouraged to close ties with individual trade chains to devote as much time as possible to thinking and shopping, to wanting products that they cannot afford, for which they feel bad. But the only way to get rid of bad feelings is to buy something. The vicious circle is thus effectively established and the human being has transformed into a consumer. In the past, Slovenian trade has been taught about the constant increase in shopping centres and how much more sales per capita it makes sense to have. Nevertheless, new shops were always opening up, and buyers distributed among themselves. Two major system traders in the country also ended up in serious trouble because of the rapid expansion of their sales network at a high level of indebtedness. Both cases prove that their business model for the distribution of the sales network was wrong, but because of their size this has become a problem not only of the individual trader but of the countries and stakeholders involved. Rather than the risk of the closure of non-profit trade, key decision makers in commercial companies are committed to the financial and business restructuring of companies. In other words, they experience unimaginably over employees. Massive unnecessary work on Sundays is socially harmful. Thousands of people who work instead of resting suffer social and family life. These people just don't have enough time for themselves, let alone their families. While employees in trades have the right to rest, this right to much denial and limitation. They can be happy because on Sundays and holidays, they do business with part-time jobs and sometimes do not change. The experience of the past months, when trade was closed on Sundays, shows that Sunday's traffic is largely spread over the remaining days of the week. In circumstances where trade did not work on Sundays, we have seen that shopping habits can quickly adapt to this situation. They are also quick adjustments to the ability of the trading society. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the DeSUS Group have recognised the reasons for and against and we have different definitions for them. Most of the time, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Trade Act in its original version. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u104	It's a nice greeting to all of us once again. We are in the Slovenian National Party against closing trade on Sundays. There are several reasons for such a view. First of all, it's not just merchants and merchants who work on Sundays and holidays. Everyone else works — innkeepers, tourist workers, health workers, firefighters, police officers, security guards, and could also list. Therefore, it is not a solution to closing trade, but rather a solution to better pay for Sunday's work. There will always be someone who would like to earn some euro more, and he will be happy to work too. It may also be a student or a pensioner who could improve his monthly income by additional earnings. In Slovenia we must encourage people to do as much as possible and not the other way around. Second, if you go to the store on Sunday, you won't be the only one. On Sundays, you will also meet many pensioners in the store, whose only daily contact with society is to go to the store. It also happens that people wait until 8 a.m. Sunday for the stores to open. We have a situation where those who go to the store on Sunday support the closing of trade. Paradox. In some other countries, such as the United States, some major trading centres are open 24 hours a day. That's just how capitalism is when we want to have everything at our disposal. Thirdly, we trust the economy and economic logic. If people didn't go to the store on Sundays, you'd probably be locked up. Traders can essentially decide whether or not to close trade. Of course, there is a question of who will take the first step. Why should the state always intervene? The country has been involved too often in the economy, causing a lot of bad things and fighting a little good. In the Slovenian National Party, we will vote against the bill because we do not want to interfere with the free economic initiative provided by the Constitution. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Franz Rosec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present. The aim of the bill is to ensure that all workers and workers in trades and certain related activities are provided free weeks, which are defined by law as part of the day off. The proposal also realizes the will of voters, which was expressed at the 2003 referendum, to close trade on Sundays, of course on certain exceptions. At the first reading of the law, we expressed support for the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, we have expressed the view that such an important law must be addressed in the Economic and Social Council. We will support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, we believe that exceptions should be introduced to the law, so we will be able to carry out work on Sundays in stores with an area of less than 200 square metres in addition to traders, their legitimate representatives and prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc will be presented by Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u108	Thank you. The issue of trade and their Sunday schedules is, in fact, a conflict of rights. On the one hand, we have a free economic initiative and on the other we have the right to family life and rest. Which is more important in this case, but it doesn't really matter. At the 2003 consultation referendum, people decided that we did not need to trade so much on Sundays, and all these years the country has put the decision on the sidelines. They also support Sunday's closure in the union. So the employees agree to get free time rather than Sunday’s allowances. And at this point, of course, there is an essential question, not just about leisure time, family, free economic initiative, but about overestimating the profession. We have already seen the payrolls of trades, the largest share of which is held by women who, with more rushes and extras for Sunday’s work and holidays, are barely reaching minimum wages. And these low-valuation professions are today's syndrome. In doing so, we must not forget other aspects and issues of the trade industry itself. The Inspectorate is reminded of violations in relation to working hours that the net earnings due to Sunday's work are negligible, that almost generally the minimum wage for Sunday's work amounts to only 60 cents per hour for more than two days, amounting to around 30 euros gross. On the other hand, the Chamber of Commerce draws attention to the situation due to co-vid that closing trade on Sundays will result in a 10% drop in traffic, that purchasing power will be drained, that wages will no longer be added and that the industry will be threatened with forgiveness. All the consideration of the arguments on both sides is at least after social dialogue between employers and employees. In 2019, companies in the industry created close to EUR billion of profits, and employees are generally, as has already been said, on a minimum wage. Dialogue is therefore at least what we expect, regardless of the outcome of the vote. Marjana Sharca's list is a social-liberal party, so we hear both sides. The vote on the law for these reasons is unlikely to be uniform in the letter of Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u110	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a trade law seeks to implement 17 years ago the people's expressed referendum will to close trade on Sundays. However, several attempts at human will law enforcement have been made against the wall of the Constitutional Court rulings, which annulled the provisions prohibiting Sunday’s trade. The reasons were poorly defined exceptions which made it impossible to effectively implement the bans on Sunday work. The main reason for supporting the Social Democrats in the bill in question is the clear referendum will of the people and, on the other hand, the fundamental right of workers in trade to have at least one day of free time to spend with their families. The proposal, which will conclude today's legislative procedure, foresees the closure of all major trades on Sundays. In the second reading, it was already adopted at a previous meeting of the National Assembly, but due to the additions made and accepted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, its final consideration was required at today's meeting. However, even in this attempt to legalise, there are problems with exceptions. The commercial activity plays an important role in the care of the population and passengers, so certain exceptions are certainly justified. For example, the operation of petrol services and shops within border crossings, airports and rail and bus stations could thus, following the original proposal of the law, remain open on Sundays. The same would apply to small stores with a surface area of up to 200 square metres. In the second reading, then, the law was also supplemented by an exception to small shops which could operate on Sundays if the owner or his procurator were to do the work. With this supplement, we have provided the possibility of operating small stores that have a very important service role in tourism, such as the sale of souvenirs or home products for tourists and the like. The owners of such trades are not restricted to freedom of work and the employees are adequately protected from Sunday work. However, any further exceptions could lead to a law to the extent that this would no longer achieve the basic objective, and this would provide a day of rest for employees in trade activities. Nevertheless, the law was supplemented by an exception at the plenary session, which also allows for student work in stores on Sundays. An additional amendment means that the proposal must be dealt with in particular in the third reading. In this regard, too, complements are possible today. So you have again proposed additional exceptions. In addition to the student work, they are also intended to enable the work of family members of the owner of the company, who may, in accordance with the Law on the Prevention of Work on the Black, perform occasional work in the family company if they do not receive payment for it. In addition, the whole purpose of the law is broken down by proposing that trade could be opened by 10 weeks a year. All new proposals, despite their good intentions, may pose a risk that the objectives of the law will not be achieved, as well as for the new unconstitutionality of the law. The issue of unequal treatment of workers in other sectors is also raised when all are accepted. We Social Democrats are convinced that weekly rest should be provided to all workers, because those employed in trade activities are not yet the only ones who have to work for weeks. In the Group of Social Democrats, we therefore unanimously support the original complementary proposal, which certainly carries out the referendum will of the people. We will therefore support the amendment that allows their owners and procurators to work in trade on Sunday, but we will not support the other proposed exceptions, because this would create a sense of law that protects workers and workers. We will certainly support the text of the marriage, as I have already said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u111	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 24 September 2020. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendments of the Group of Ambassadors and the two amendments of the SMC Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Anyone else? First, I give the word to Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Chairman. Look, it's Friday, and I have to say I'm extremely tired, and I'm looking forward to my weekend, so it's like two days off from work so I can get some rest so I can maybe read something, go for a walk, spend some time in the company of my loved ones and so on. I don't know, maybe I'm the only one in this room, I'm wrong, or maybe others feel that way. I wouldn't say that our work is hard, but imagine that you are a merchant or a merchant, for example, that you are exposed to a cash register literally to that rhythm when hundreds and hundreds of people pass through you. You need to communicate. You're on strike all the time. Let us be aware that we are talking about people and that not everything is not in money, not everything is in profit, not everything is in profit and not everything is in the desires of wholesalers. I think we're representatives of the people and we need to listen to the people. And the people have already told their referendum. I am surprised that in this country we do not respect the referendum of the expressed will of the people, so now we must correct it, correct what should actually be, but it does not work. Many letters of support have come to our Members, perhaps you have seen them expressing their support for the proposal we are making today. They were sent by trade unions, including trade unions, such as the public sector, firefighting, catering, tourism, industry, individual workers and workers. All expressed their unwavering support for this proposal that weeks should be free of charge for traders and traders. And this support also comes from sectors where they have to work themselves, because we have heard it today, and this is supposed to be one of the arguments, czech, because in other sectors they are doing why not traders. So we received 37 letters of support. Of these, 26 are from individual workers and workers, traders. And let me sound what people say, because whatever I say here, those who are confident and firmly buried in the idea that stores must be open on Sundays, you will certainly not hear me. But you may hear the voice of the people who work there, who therefore exhaust this work and take away what belongs to them, what belongs to us and what belongs to them. Workers Tuša Katja Črnivec says: "Looking at the companies that call for vacancies, the situation is the same for all traders, so I would expect your support to choose a free Sunday that we will spend with our families. The weekend off, when we did them, we got in a week, which means our kids are at school, our partner, and our friends are at work. So we can't spend the day off together. In view of your fear of losing their jobs, employers extended the working hours we worked until Saturdays 17 at the time of the epidemic to 18, from this week to 20 hours. I don't think there's any need for an explanation anymore. Put yourself in the shoes of a worker. Greed will destroy us. The excuses are that it is necessary to give customers time to buy, and they are already almost made of vines.« That's one of the letters. Workwoman Edina Hudozovich writes: “When I started working in the store more than 30 years ago, they were not working weeks. It was a week off faster than expected, because you knew you could relax one day a week and enjoy your family. We had picnics, took a trip to the sea, or into nature, or hung out at home. We were together every Sunday. We also had a wonderful time in the ministry, and everything was done in a good mood. Then they started weeks. We worked day after day without any conclusion. Yeah, we got one day in a week of fray, but then the kids were in school or kindergarten, the men at work, I was alone and I was cleaning up, cooking, working more than usual, and of course the day went by without a break. That's one. Secondly, for this day, I was counted down from seven to eight hours, and on Sunday I only made four to five, so I ran out of hours, and the supplement for Sunday even about 20 euros is smaller than the loss, as these hours still need to be worked out. I'm very unhappy with myself and the young. How are they supposed to work, how are they supposed to exchange and baby-sitting? Even if for just one week I would get 100 euros in allowances, I wouldn't trade it for a day off with my family, and now I'm 50 years old. I want to see grandchildren, kids, parents, friends. During the week? How, since we have unequal working hours? I start at ten and end at seventeen. When I get home, it's already evening, and I'm tired and able only to have dinner, shower and bed. I'm not young anymore. I eat something dry for dinner, and I don't have time for lunch to cook. I can't see the baby anymore. I'm getting more depressed, and health is getting worse. I am positive, driven, good, adaptable, I like to work and work as much as possible, but I no longer come to work with a start and will, but with bitterness and in anticipation of even worse working conditions, with which they continue to burn." Here I could read you a lot more letters, maybe I can give them to you later, and I won't be dragging too much. In the meantime, I also received a message that the support of Christian churches had also come, which wanted to allow young workers and workers, in particular, a week off. The excuses, how this will be known on the economy and so on, are arguments in favour of the profit of wholesalers, because our proposal does not mean a complete non-recovery of trade on Sundays. Smaller stores will be open on Sundays so that someone will not fail, which is a smaller trader, but if they are willing to work in a way that exploits themselves without exploiting workers who are in a subordinate position and who are simply dependent on their employer. In addition, there are some suggestions that work should be made available to students and pensioners. These are, of course, instilled proposals to bring the matter to a standstill in the Constitutional Court, and we must not sit on this today. And that is what we would mention when we suggested in Levica that the hourly item for students rise — where were you then? In Levika, we were the ones who made sure that it rose from 4.13 euros to 4.56 euros. You didn't say that at the time. When we proposed in Levica on the last adoption of the labour market regulation law to raise a shamefully low hourly pensioner's line, the proposed amendments were against. The work of pensioners is currently worth 3.46 euros an hour. And today I hear here that you want to help students and pensioners, if you want to help them with this when we work on Sundays. Make up your mind. If you want to help them, raise their clocks so that they can be properly paid and paid for their work six days a week, but on Sundays let them rest and live their lives in some quality way in the circle of their neighbors and have something else from life, except the shamefully low-paid work. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u114	Thank you, Madam President. We had this marriage on the table before the holidays. We know that during the days of the cobbler, shops were closed on Sundays, and many vendors and shopkeepers took a breath away and almost got used to the regime and looked forward to it. Unfortunately, Mr Rajić, Chairman of the SMC Economics Committee, was the day before the proposal for a law supported by both buyers, trade unions and employees, and the support of other political parties was also promised, the meeting voluntarily and without justification was cancelled. Of course, he intervened in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, although the deadline was adopted at the College of the National Assembly. Why am I saying this? Because I can see that SMC, along with its amendments, is trying in every way to prevent this marriage from going through. And also with this amendment, which unfortunately has been announced by the SDS's largest party, with these exceptions, he wants the Constitutional Court to stop the law. I can understand that their President is Minister of Economic Affairs, but I think we should also look at the referendum will of people 17 years ago and also at the unions of employees, even buyers. I am pleased with the position of New Slovenia, which I can only agree with, as well as the support of religious communities. In fact, it does not help anyone if he has a day off somewhere during the week when the children are after school and the partners at work and so on. The consequences of all this are broken families, most of the time women work in stores, the real mothers are absent, not to mention if mothers are single. Where am I supposed to be with a kid on Sundays when kindergartens aren't working? If we are a handful of social, when we talk about families, about values, then it is actually not right on Sundays to force them to work, despite the fact that the referendum was 17 years ago. All the money in the world isn't worth the fact that my mother can't take her student to the train this weekend or wash his laundry. And that's not what I'm saying. It's from the letters they sent us, and they were mentioned earlier by my colleague Natasha. In short, during the weekend there are social gatherings, picnics, child training, games, and all of this must be given up on mothers who work as merchants. You know, that's amazing, because these people are sad and burned, but they're not rich. This Sunday's work is never paid enough for everything they lose. With our amendment, we have made additional exceptions to special locations, and these are ports for public transport, border crossings, everywhere transit is located in hospitals. Exceptions shall also be laid down for all stores with a sales space of up to 200 square metres which may be opened provided that the work is carried out by traders themselves. It is said that small shops, ownership stores, espeas will not be compromised. We are talking about large foreign corporations that have millions of profits, workers and workers, and merchants and traders are kept on minimum wages. You know, I don't see any reason, economic, no moral, no sanity, that this proposal, which has been so much at the door to confirm, is now being rejected. Of course there's math in Parliament. Everyone's gonna press that button based on interest. But given how we have already been harmonised, how trade unions, employees and the public and the referendum will of people agree, I do not know how to understand that some capital and capital interests are so tempting that they are capable of violating all parliamentary procedures and also establishing their beliefs and all reasonable and moral standards to press the button for the interest of someone who does not work for the good of people. I will absolutely support our amendment. I also call on all Members of Parliament to do so, because it is time to allow employees at least one working day a week. Let's get into their skins and do seven days a week of whatever it is. You sit in Parliament for seven days a week and you will see how burned and destroyed you will be. We're burned enough by Friday. I really don't understand how not to afford what we afford. At least Sunday is true, I would say, gentlemen's day, which everyone can afford and spend with their family, because that's right, fair and fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The word is Edward Paulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u116	Thank you, President, for your word. I'll be back for a moment before the holidays, during the second reading of this bill. At that time, an amendment was adopted by the SMC Group, which extends exceptions, who can work on Sundays, and also on the students. Today, with the amendment of this parliamentary group, we extend this exceptionally to the family members of the owner of the company. By extending exceptions to certain social groups based on the status of the labour market, we create unacceptable positive discrimination. If we compare two 20-year-olds, one is employed and one is a student, that means one can work on Sundays and one can't, that's an obvious example of this discrimination. My view is that this is contentious because we violate the principle of equality before the law and also the principle of more or less favourable treatment, which is permissible only in exceptional cases where exceptional circumstances exist. My point is that with all these amendments, we are causing possible unconstitutionality, and I hope that this is not the intention of the proposed amendments. Who can work on the basic bill? In addition to the operator, director or legal representative, procurators may work on Sundays. The procurator may be granted both to employees and to others, trustable persons. And it gets very easy. Then we also have the Law on the Prevention of Work in Black and so-called short-term work instrument, which allows family members of the owner of the company to work in the company for 40 hours a month. If we calculate it, it means they can work all week. During all this time, we have also received the response of both pensioners' representatives and students' representatives. I'd like to take both responses for a moment. The pensioners' union does not agree to allow us additional work in order to save some shopkeepers in this way. We have also received a letter from the Youth Plus Syndicate, and I will quote only one passage: “Amendments made by individual customers to comply with capital and individual employers and suggest that on Sundays procurators, directors, students and pensioners work in stores up to 200 square metres or work 10 weeks and so on are unacceptable.” And they continue to believe that their problems need to be solved differently. If I can get a summary of the other stakeholders' opinions. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia opposes the closure of trades, which is in some way understandable and predicts forgiveness. But my opinion is that as long as a billion euros of profits are made, as long as a huge number of overtime is committed, as long as the rights of workers in trade are violated – if we look at it, at the time of the closing of trade, in times of chronosis, the increase in traffic – in view of all these reasons of forgiveness should not have been in my opinion. For closure is the majority of the Slovenian public, not to mention the consultation referendum. The Labour Inspectorate finds an extremely large number of infringements in trade activities. Before the holidays we could also hear the confessions of trades of different trading chains. During all this time, there was no agreement between employers and trade unions. The time has been enough, and I believe that in these negotiations the employer is a stronger partner and should adapt. If we look at that we are a signatory to the European Social Charter, which sets weekly rest per day, which is traditionally intended for rest, and this is Sunday, if we look at the fact that the employees of trade activities are almost 100% for closing trade, we can create an image. A last resort, and this is a measure that is happening today, is a policy response. Policy must listen to stakeholders and make a responsible decision. Given that family members can work under the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Work in Black, that extending exemptions to students and pensioners constitutes discrimination on the basis of the status on the labour market, that both students and pensioners are opposed to such exceptions as may constitute unconstitutionality, I will support the proposal of the Left, which brings the amendment back to the basic version and I will not support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party, which expands the exception.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The word is Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u118	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the beginning, I intended to think differently about my debate, but now the discussions of some of the predecessors have also set me on fire, which is never bad, because then the debate is more energetic. We have also supported and continue to support the closing of trade on Sundays. Even in Sab, we are a social-liberal party, and who knows these political differences, understands that those we consider to be social-liberal, on the one hand, we want, expect and strive for a strong social state that serves the population and works for the benefit of citizens, while at the same time we are socio-liberal aware that money cannot be spent in such a way as to share that no budget, no Slovenian or any other is likely to be a bottomless bag, and it is always necessary to consider how money for this social state and everything else that a country offers comes into this little. That is why we also support those who produce in our country that provide largely tax money, contribution money and so on, we support entrepreneurship, craftsmen, economy, small economy, all those who contribute to making the social state as we wish we can afford it. And this weighting is difficult. The principle of an economic initiative is also very important for a party like ours. This is one of the constitutional principles. However, we are aware that other principles are important here. Today, it has already been said that the initiative to close trade on Sundays in the Constitutional Court has already met with a negative assessment several times and that not all attempts have been recognised as constitutionally consistent even after the referendum. So we are aware that even if this law goes to constitutional review, the Constitutional Court will have a difficult job ahead of it, weighing the principle of equality, the principle of competitiveness, the principle of non-loyal competition, the principle of equal treatment, as I have already mentioned, and the principle of free economic initiative. This is a very difficult work for the Constitutional Court. Nevertheless, we supported this marriage and the closing of trade on Sundays in the Sab party, as it was said. In this weighting, we thought, if there is already, let's say, a survey, because you know what that referendum was like, the referendum rules were then such that the referendum had the effect that something had been adopted already, if the minimum number of people had taken part in that decision, and the minimum number of people could have decided on the big issues. The referendum was also a kind of survey, a kind of research among the people who agree that weeks of work are free. Another time. Also, trade unions, which are just one of those stakeholders who say what is important to them, and also trade unions, have told us that workers do not want to work. And once again, in this weighting, we have also decided in the SAB that we will decide that work on Sundays is not allowed or that Sunday is a day off. The devil is as always in the details, and he will be here, but exceptions are required under certain rules from the European Union, such as petrol services, railway stations, buses and so on. And even here in the second reading, some exceptions were generally accepted. Thus, in the current form, the law allows some small stores to be opened on Sundays up to 200 square and so on, in short, there are some exceptions already. Today, however, I have been annoyed by the words of some Members, that it seems only to them that some of us are thinking differently or that we dare to walk away from the first draft of the law, terrible. That's a bit of a pain in the ass. Either way, someone's proposing the law, the law's not his. Member Sukič said that in Levica we were the ones who took care of the increase in the compensation for the work of the students. They didn't take care of themselves in Levika, because there's only eight of them. They could have suggested something in Levi, without us remaining in the vast majority, but it would not have been accepted. It's the same here. The law is finally adopted in such a content as most decisions after the legislative procedure has been completed. And to challenge this right to us who are paid here to do so, it does not seem right to me. In the previous reading, not as Mrs Sukič said, I hear here today, he hears poorly, this has already been adopted in previous reading, discussed and adopted with the support of the SAB, in order to allow work for pensioners and students. Today we will also support the amendment to allow work for family members of owners. I'll tell you why. For me and us, the tendency of marriage is clear. The point of this law is that on Sundays, we do not try to do what we want to do. To avoid trying to work out those who wrote letters who wanted to be at home with their family and who gave them the minimum compensation that merchants give them — and that is truly sad and minimal — are not enough to give up that day with their family. That's what this law wants to protect, and that's the main purpose of this law. As you know, the Constitutional Court always judges the law for the purpose and even after the debate in the National Assembly to determine what the legislator intended. This is used in various forms of interpretation, and so on, I will not burden here, but it will also be judged. And if it is truly the sincere purpose of those who strive for this marriage that on Sundays those who do not want to do so cannot do so, then I do not know why such anger and anger over these exceptions are as they are now. That is to say, students can work – here we continue to talk about what poor people are like, how they do not have enough income to live, how they need to be provided with student work and so on. An exception has already been made. Shops up to 200 square feet will be open. And if some students want students, students have a different worker, they have no family if they want to work on Sundays if they want to – no one will force them to do so, and they will handcuff them to the cash register – why not allow them to do so. Next. In the National Assembly, we kept filling the mouths of the pensioners, the poor, how they couldn't survive, what, what, who gave them more and so on. Only those pensioners, some of whom are younger, are full of power who in these small stores would want to work up to 200 square feet on Sundays, will be able to do so. No one's going to be able to force them again. And that the pensioner's union says it won't let the pensioner problem be solved like that, so listen, now the pensioner's union is going to tell us how they're going to let us solve the pensioner's problem. Small things solve the problems of pensioners. Every thing counts. A free ticket counts. And it also counts that those who want to go to a small place on Sundays to help shop. And they're getting a little more together, and they're having a little chat, and they're making a little bit of money. If that owner goes so far, I'm gonna use this nice burning word to make this job underpaid, neither will the student nor the pensioner decide on it. And now that we are going to have some super but communist control over some things that are not the purpose of this marriage and the main intention of marriage, I really don't understand why such a bad will is coming. Which, I'm sorry, I'm not omniscient, God forbid, but I've never heard of a law that would allow – that was the first version – that would only allow shopkeepers to do business. But you imagine that in Germany, I don't know, they would adopt a law that would only allow shopkeepers to work. Where's the anti-constitution? That's what our law stipulates. We also added procurators, and now adds the SMC to the proposal that their family members, that on Sunday, a mother who owns a shop in a small tourist place, will be assisted by her son if he is already already employed in the shop. But that's their judgment. We do not therefore deviate from this main intention of the law to work only by those who want it. And that no owner, no big, no small store, no 200 square can force those who don't want to do it. That's what's important to me. If I move on now, in the Young Plus Syndicate, they're getting into it. I don't know how any union can forbid those who are struggling to survive who need extra work to be used in this way for life. I don't think that's acceptable. If we go all the way back again, what will the Constitutional Court say about the principle of free economic initiative and so on. I don't know. At the time of the adoption of this law, even in the first version, which some believe is not constitutionally controversial, I have received warnings from two of my colleagues and one of my colleagues working in the European Union that the first option is already contrary to the European acquis. I am not an expert on the European acquis, but I know that one of the fundamental principles of the European Union is the free movement of people and capital and the most open economy and so on. I can help these people, all three are lawyers, and I believe so. I want to say that this risk that this amendment alone will make the law unconstitutional is not the only risk and that this law has a lot of risks. And I wonder how the Constitutional Court will decide if this law is found to be constitutionally consistent. As for the comments of the Chamber of Commerce, the major owners of commercial enterprises and so on, I am extremely disturbed by the fact that one side of this Chamber besieges them, as if they are parasites, pests that should be expelled from this country, and shame them, and that these capitalists say anything at all, which is terrible. If any union can say - and can - even traders, business owners can give their opinion. As most of us here, legislators, we have obviously decided to listen to the opinion of the workers. And that's right. When these same traders who have the right to express their views and the right to fight for their interests, when these same workers tell the Constitutional Court in their roles, which principles have been violated and so on, then they may ask themselves why they are not in all the big profits they have – but they do – and we know that the greatest profits are in trade – they were willing to pay the workers more for that week. If we were willing to spill something more, we might not have had this situation. And if we were willing to promise this in social dialogue, of course the situation could be different. Because even at a completely individual level, people always weigh what is good for us, where we have greater benefits and where we have greater damage. And even someone who means Sunday to him might be able to decide "yes, I mean, but my social situation is such that at this point I will also work on Sunday because it pays me financially and because I can also contribute something to the family in one other area". I would like this law, at the end of its adoption, to be one joint action of this national assembly. And the problemization and demonization of some of the amendments I really don't think is appropriate. Most will say which amendment is acceptable and which one is not. But it is crucial to me, and I think that no one can challenge me, Mr Mesec, that I see that he has already made his point, that he may answer this dilemma of mine, and it is crucial to me whether this law uncompromisingly responds to this main intention that they do not need to do it on Sundays to those who do not want to. No one can force them. Also, the owner, who owns up to 200 square feet of big shop in a tourist destination, won't have to work if he doesn't want to. There will be many more proposals for sent laws, and anyone who introduces such a law must be aware that the law ultimately goes through some legislative procedure and can also get amendments and can also get changes. And also that the trade union thus favours one party, I don't know, but "We suggest that the law be adopted in the form proposed by the party Left," the union writes. [[…]] Wait a minute, I'm not a representative of either the Levic Party or the union representative. My job as Members is to ensure that such legislation is adopted that is good for all citizens. In doing so, I weigh everything I said I weigh. And my concern, once again, is the same for entrepreneurs, businessmen, craftsmen, all those who produce and work really hard. I look forward to further discussion. I think this marriage has had a lot of emotions lately. I have to say that I did not expect, I did not pay attention at the time, there was one large vote that, because of one amendment, his enforcement would be suspended. When I looked at the scope of the law and the rules of procedure, it was clear. But also those who support this law and who are now in the government, if you thought it was so important that the law was enforced earlier, could achieve the same without the enforcement of the law by leaving the decree in force. There was a decree in force that closed trade on Sundays. This decree was released in early July and the trade was closed on Sundays. I don't have a problem with that. Just not now to report to those of you who were backing an amendment that because of us the shops were now open over the holidays on Sundays. First of all, it's not because of us, as I said, that the decree could be put into effect. Secondly, even if the trade was open during the summer, even if the enforcement of this law had been suspended for two months, it was no tragedy. For the first time, it is nice that during the summer, those who wanted to be able to buy and help in this difficult economic situation. On the other hand, we work in the long run. If our direction is true that we help those who do not want to work, that they do not need work on Sundays, or that they do not need to work, and that the employer cannot force them, then our goal is achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposer Luke Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. A nice hello! At first in my position, I made it very clear what the state of this law is. The law will probably be adopted in one form or another in the National Assembly, as the majority of the parliamentary groups have made a very clear announcement of support. The danger that the law is not adopted or broken is placed in the Constitutional Court. In the Constitutional Court, it is extremely dangerous already in this form, as we currently have before us, to see the law fall. Since students and pensioners are in there, that means the following. The Constitutional Court will raise the question of constitutional compliance as to whether such a provision puts people in an unequal position. And if I give you a case. You take two 22-year-olds. One is enrolled in college and works through a student's travel license, and the other is not enrolled in college and working through a rental contract. Why can the first one work in a store on Sunday and the second one can't work in a store on Sunday? It's just a question that's going to open up there and I'm going to tell you that it's going to be very difficult to survive this constitutional judgment. That's the first thing. Secondly, it is not true that the Constitutional Court says it has a negative opinion on closing down shops on Sundays. They made it very clear already in 2003 that the legislator, according to the National Assembly, has the full legitimacy to arrange the work of trade on Sundays as it seems. So it's closing down the store. However, it is necessary to ensure that there are no constitutionally inconsistent things during the exceptions. And that's all this is about. That is why we propose an amendment to simply return the law to its former form, it is in the form of, when all stores are closed on Sundays, by allowing for an exception for small shops, where not owners, as you said, can work, but managers, prosecutors and so on. You wonder if it's still in practice anywhere else in the world. They have very similar arrangements in Austria, Germany and Switzerland. I have a Swiss law open here. You said there's a rule in the world that only managers can work on Sundays. I can read it in your original if you don't believe me. Article 4, b point of this Act states that all trades are closed. Then there are exceptions in Article 4 and says that the exceptions to trade are provided that they do not work "personnels" there on Sunday. [[Speak French]] And then it goes on to define that it exempts people working in management positions. [[Speak French]] So, in Switzerland, they literally have the same principle in the law. So don't tell me where it's still going. They have the same principle and we followed it. If I come back to the end or to the beginning of your controversy, when you say, it's in everyone's interest that these 30,000 workers in the store get a day off. I doubt we all have that kind of purpose in this room. You will demonstrate such purposes honestly by which amendments you will support. If you support an amendment that allows enough exceptions to solve virtually all small stores, and it is very likely to be constitutionally consistent, then we will believe in your intentions. If we just put in some exceptions that are very likely to be mines in the Constitutional Court, the President of the Chamber of Commerce Marić Lah has already given a constitutional opinion and then we are very much on the ground. Again, this law is not in danger of falling into Parliament, but is in danger of falling in the Constitutional Court. And your votes on the amendments will be decisive.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Replica, Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u122	Mr. Moon, you misunderstand me. What you've been reading to me now, and it's been four years since I've been learning French, that I can understand roughly, refers to something else that I've been discussing. I was talking about owners – that I don't know the case that owners. And if you are saying that in the Constitutional Court it may be disputed that it is an unequal treatment in the case of students or pensioners, then it may equally be disputed that Jože Kranjc may have an open trade because he owns it, but Michel, who owns E. Leclerc, does not. This may also be equally controversial, and I do not agree with this thesis that those who sincerely think will not support the amendment. The key to this is what is the intent of marriage. The intent of the law is that those who do not want to work are not forced to work. And none of the amendments from this intention for us in the SAB Group will depart, except for an additional 10 weeks. And this is again something extra, a little back-up, and we don't agree to it. So who has sincere intentions and who doesn't, it sucks. The whole debate went beyond that, because the law itself can be unconstitutional without all these exceptions, which only come in addition, and the only one who can say it is the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I'm Luke Moon's proponent. Here you go. [[advertising from the hall]] He's the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u124	Yeah, okay. Now, first of all, you've misread the marriage, and second of all, you're not listening well. It doesn't say anything in the law, owners, but it says business people. And you're not listening because I told you. So we're applying the same principle as in force in this law that I've mentioned to you from Switzerland.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Replica, Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u126	We agree, however, that managers in smaller companies are often owners of up to 200 square meters in tourist areas. So we know what's gonna happen. And this will also be judged by the Constitutional Court – the actual equality of positions.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Before I put my word forward, I'll read those who are registered. First he gets the word Turtle Brick, then Tina Hefferle, for her mag. Dušan Verbich and then Joza Lenart. If anyone else wants to sign up, I'll write it down. First, he gets the word Željko Ciegler.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues! We are also traders of people, is a phrase that I have heard a number of times recently, because we are those who broadcast us on television, the public sees it, and especially the public, who is interested in a particular area. I must say that the public in Slovenia made it clear at the referendum whether they want to have access to trade every day. No, the stores in Slovenia should be closed on Sunday. And because I agree with those of you who said that, on Sunday in Slovenian shops, work free. And merchants, mostly merchants who said to me: “Look, I’m a single woman, I have two children at home, I’m tired, I’ve also had years, I have children to take care of. When there was a coronary crisis, I was working here, and I was exposed to all the risks from the point of view of the possibility of infection. But we've been working." And that's what they're saying. In those days, when there was a coronary crisis, trade, in particular, is what we're talking about. It's what we're talking about. It's what we're talking about. It's what we're talking about. It was correctly established, and I hope that those who say this in the next sentence will not forget what they said before, when a colleague spoke earlier, trade capital creates enormous profits in Slovenia. My colleague Miha made it clear earlier that a billion euros, created at the expense of work, is an excessively demanding part of traders. It was these merchants who told me at different ends: “Remember us too. We have sent you to Parliament to decide on these matters through legislation. And we didn't vote for just one party. All the parties inside are also representatives of people, voters and voters of traders. Don't forget about us." And it's not true that on Sundays in the store, even if there's a small store, someone who wants to do it would say he's going to work or he's not going to work. No, it's up to the owner. He'll decide the capital. He will say: “You will not work? Then I don't need you anymore." What does this mean for a middle - aged single mother who is already ill. What will be her fate, her fate, and her children? Only this one poor day, where people are supposed to be around, as far as work obligations are concerned, is the case. When it was also pointed out earlier by a government representative in particular as a result of the closure of trade for economic operators. Sorry, economic operators create profits based on trade, we said before, one of the highest in Slovenia. In the event that trade is closed, people spend the money that citizens and citizens intend to spend in stores on Sundays if trade is closed. As much goods and goods as you want to buy it, you can buy it anyway. Interestingly, even older people told me: “When it was crown time, you restricted our discriminatory access to commerce. Now you even want us to work for you on Sundays. And we are also exposed to times when one crown will replace the other crown." However, it is important when, in particular, the applicant and one of the previous interlocutors, who had a very strong debate on the amendment, is working in the shops for pensioners and students not to worry about the welfare of students or pensioners, their social distress. It is the interest of the owners of commercial capital, although it also has its own social and also its own environmental function. That these shops can be opened and that these people in there work, as the pre-spoken colleague Luke said, is actually a mine in the Constitutional Court, which is why the law, despite being necessary and well-intentioned, falls in the Constitutional Court. Therefore, I must say that I will absolutely support this law, because merchants and traders are only human beings and belong to them one normal part of life, the allocation of work and family obligations as well as to others. However, as far as the debate on honesty is concerned, I must say that the colleague who spoke earlier has recently followed her vote several times when she votes, because it is written on the list and first supports the amendments of the opposition and then the amendments of the coalition, so I simply do not know what her honesty is. Especially given the discussion, the Masha you had here about the Trade Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u129	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u130	See, Turtle, that's the difference between us. We will also support some amendment of the coalition if it is good, if it corrects the law, if it is in accordance with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and you are always and against everything. Only what you are defending must be accepted as you think, and in the form you imagined. That's how it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word is Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. I'm not going to go into these party fights that my colleagues had in front of me. At times, politics must also make decisions that interfere with certain social areas in order to ensure that the situation is simple. The dialogue between the social partners, in this case between employers and workers in trade, has not been achieved and that is why we have this law before us today. Public opinion is clear and has been expressed many times. Most citizens and citizens are in favour of closing trade on Sundays. We also heard the opinion of employees in trade. We can recall the very emotional confessions of traders, representatives of individual trades in the debate at the second reading of this law, and I simply do not see the reasons why we still oppose this law. There's more excuses. No one drinks water for me. For example, the time we're in is inappropriate for us to close our stores on Sundays. I can't agree with that. We saw at the time of the worst coronary crisis when we were quarantined or imprisoned in the congregations and when the government decreed that the shops were closed on Sundays. At the time there was no loss of turnover in trade activities, even more so, it even increased according to some data. And even then we didn't see anyone get hurt too much, I'm talking to consumers because we couldn't go to the store on Sundays. We have also heard in the debate today this kind of comparison between working hours and working hours, saying that what we are currently regulating in this law does not belong to this law, but should be regulated by working hours that should apply to traders or to workers in trade. That's not entirely true either. According to the logic of things, operating time is very strongly linked to the working time that workers in the store do. If we have open shops on Sundays, let me remind you that since 2003, when we had that famous referendum, where people have been told that Sundays are closed, it has been quite a while, and today we have many large malls, which are open on Sundays not only until the twelfths, not only by 1 p.m., but also by 6 p.m., especially at a time when the holidays are at the door, let's say in December, when we all like to sing that time for the family. Well, then, on Sundays, the workers work till 6:00 p.m., and that's why I don't buy that excuse. As far as the amendments, which once again extend some exceptions to this law, are concerned, I would just like to say the following. The original law, as tabled by the party of the Left, is sufficient, in my view, for these criteria to be judged on one side of the free economic initiative that we know is a constitutional category, and on the other hand the public benefit and the worker's right to rest. Workers' rights are also so strong that we must protect them as legislators if they are not adequately protected. In this case, we provide a free economic initiative by allowing these exceptions, which are governed by the original law. We've heard a lot about this today, and I'm not going to repeat myself. This concern for workers who do not want to work or who do not want to work on Sundays, and we have been able to hear today that we are all in favour of allowing them to do so, but let us legalize this exception and that exception. This concern, in my opinion, is no longer a genuine concern at the end of the day, as we all know that once we put such and different exceptions into law, it is potentially very likely that they will lead to some unconstitutionality which will eventually end up in this original law, with this initial purpose to ensure the rights of workers to rest, fade away and that such a law will fall on the Constitutional Court. I want to say here, it's not about ideology. All those who advocate closing trade on Sundays and without any additional exceptions are not ideologies, but are protecting the rights of the weaker party, in this case of workers against employers in trade activities, because also a commercial worker has the right to rest on Sundays. This is the day that, as we have heard, the convention is set for the day of rest. The Constitutional Court has on several occasions decided that a free economic initiative may, however, be limited by law if, of course, the conditions required are met, these proportionalitys, specific circumstances and so on. So there are also some excuses here that we are unduly restricting the free economic initiative, because it is a constitutional category and that the law will fall anyway, and it does not drink water. Given that man and his rights must be at the forefront, his right to free time, I think that we should not leave too many possibilities here, so that this law falls if of course we all have sincere intentions. It is not now a problem to question these amendments, which are now being tabled in a new way, including this amendment, which was also adopted in the second reading of this law, but it is simple, as I have already said, but I do not repeat myself, that we keep this law in its original form alive even after it has been adopted, we see that, however, this law will be passed when its contents are potentially reviewed in the Constitutional Court. However, as far as this is concerned, I must comment, although I am not a member of the government, but I must comment on my colleague's statement regarding the government's decision that the trade on Sundays is closed, if you were so much in the government as to keep them closed, the decision would be extended. See, the Constitutional Court has established that all measures taken during the epidemic shall be weighed weekly. The measure of closing trade was one of these measures. The government had to weigh it and just weighed it when the epidemiological picture improved so that trade could be reopened. Now to repent that you have confirmed some amendment in another reading, which has rejected the adoption of this law for two months, practically in the summer, is kind of awkward. I will certainly support the amendment of the Left to bring the law into its original state as proposed. Not because I want to compete with anyone or because I believe and believe that this law, as proposed, is the only solution and a good solution and a constitutional solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! I must admit that I have listened very much to the introductory words of the representatives of the parliamentary groups as well as of the debaters so far, and I will immediately point out the following. I was surprised that the proposaler had already raised doubts about the possibility that the Constitutional Court would repeal the legal amendments. Therefore, the question immediately arises why he persists in this legal procedure. Next thing you know, before I go to my own debate. Several times an argument was made to close trade on Sunday that the right to family life of traders and traders on Sundays. I am firmly in the position that this is a unilateral argument, because it ignores all those other good workers and workers both in health care, both in hotels, in catering, in tourist activities, because by this logic this group has no right to Sunday's family life, let alone add firefighters and all those on duty who are both employed and working on Sundays as well as working off days. Therefore, it seems to me that this force is unfair, and I will also continue to touch myself to eliminate and deal with only one group by law. I can now say that it is literally already with such a law, thus changing the creation of conditions of unfair competition in this so-called market service activity. But about this a little bit later. It was also about the referendum, the position of the Legal and Legislative Service. I must admit that I am surprised that at least those debaters who refer to the position of the Legislative and Legal Service do not try so hard to read their position more substantively. The Communication from the Legislative and Legal Service is that the reference to the 2003 referendum is not exactly an objective basis for the proposed change that we now have before us and that we are discussing. During these 17 years, the customs of consumers and traders have changed significantly, taking into account the principle of a free economic initiative, and also on the other hand the need and expectations of consumers, so that we do not talk about their shopping trends. With this, I must admit, I fully agree. I would just add here because so far there has been no speech that the proposal of the Left Group has been opposed by both the Government and the Council of State. Now a few words about the content itself. I am of the view that the National Assembly, as a legislator, should not restrict a free economic initiative, in general, and set days in which, in order for someone not to misinterpret me, I use the word owners or employers, can carry out their profitable activity. In particular, this should apply to a service activity which is fully left to the supply and demand market. It means that traders and employees, together with trade unions, should decide on this, without a policy, when their working time will be, whether they will work every day of the week or so. This is the primary duty of these participants in specific matters. Of course, this should apply if income is also generated on Sundays, nights or holidays, so that employees are substantially more paid than on a regular working day. And it is the payment or compensation for the work done that should be far from the primary activity of the unions in this particular case, if I can somehow touch it, because there has been some presence on their part in recent days. As far as the amendment law itself is concerned, I can immediately say that I am opposed. This opposition is based on looking at the content that we have before us and by some of our fellow Members or colleagues has already been quite well said, and practically in this context, this proposal is at odds with one another in many ways. So that it doesn't sound so empty, I'm going to be very specific about the relationship it's opposed to. First, in relation to Articles 66 and 74 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Second, the labour market in the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, when we had a debate in recent days on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the 2020 rebalance, the call for greater consumption in the Republic of Slovenia was often made by opposition Members and also by individuals from the proposed parliamentary group. Finally, what I have already mentioned is creating conditions for unfair competition in marketing activities. And surely the store is one piece of it. If I give a few words to a particular subject. Article 66 of the Constitution stipulates that the State creates the possibility of employment and work. This needs to be understood in accordance with the ILO Labour Convention, number 122, on employment policy. On the contrary, it is the proposal of the proposer that trade in the service activity is prohibited from working in trade on a given day. Here I must admit that I do not understand that you want to introduce stricter conditions for the employer than is possible by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and also by the International Labour Organization. As regards Article 74 of the Constitution, which defines what has already been mentioned several times, the economic initiative is free. And if I continue, acts of unfair competition are prohibited. What do these two constitutional provisions mean? The fact is that a free economic initiative is a constitutional value that has a very high weight and as such requires adequate constitutional protection. At the same time, it constitutes one of the fundamental conditions for a constitutional definition of an economic system based on free enterprise. Free and fair competition is also part of the definition of the economic system. With the proposed amendment to Article 8 of the Law, when exceptions are made to the operation of trade on Sunday, you create unfair, unfair competition between traders, which is, as it is said, prohibited. My debate is political and I do not wish to prejudge the position of the Constitutional Court in any way, as mentioned several times. But these are facts we simply cannot blind ourselves to. Just two more words concerning increased consumption, as has been said several times in this budget rebalancing. How to ensure greater consumption of the population when you said in your discussions that the savings in the Republic of Slovenia were 21 billion and so many billion, while at the same time making it impossible for service activities to have operating time on Sundays and holidays. What is somehow worrying is that you may wish to enforce a well-known rule ten years ago, which is referred to only in grave terms as consumer tourism at the end of the week. We all know that Slovenians are very resourceful about spending and shopping. And if there is no possibility in Slovenia, whether on Sunday or on holiday to go shopping, it simply goes across the border. This can literally happen that instead of being spent in the Republic of Slovenia, it is spent in neighbouring countries. I must admit that this is part of the thinking that simply convinces me that I cannot support this kind of law and also the amendments, which is why I am against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Luke Moon's proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u136	Thank you. I will respond to three arguments repeated by Mr Verbic. First, it says that it is not fair for other workers, secondly, that this is an intervention in a free economic initiative and thirdly, it is about consumer tourism. If I go in line. The fact that it's not fair is hard for you to judge. However, trade unions can assess the activities of catering, hotel services, tourism and so on, which have supported the closure of trade on Sundays. So people who work on Sundays have supported the closing of stores on Sundays, just because they know how uncomfortable it is to work on Sundays. But something else is, of course, if a Member who doesn't have to work on Sundays and the question of whether it's ever, or when it's the last time, tells how it's not fair to whom. First of all, it's not fair for you to tell people who have to work on Sundays that it's fair to work on Sundays. That's really not fair, Mr. Verbich. Secondly, when you talk about a free economic initiative, you refer to Article 74 of the Constitution, but of course it is flawed. You have forgotten to mention or mention the key thing that is enshrined in this article, which says: "The economic activity must not be carried out contrary to the public benefit." It is no coincidence that this is exactly the part you left out, because if you mention this part, then your whole argument about a free economic initiative falls. The Constitutional Court, on the basis of reading this article and this part that I have read, found that the legislator, as the National Assembly, has the full legitimacy to close trade on Sunday, if that is in accordance with the public benefit. And this one's justified in marriage. That you say that the National Assembly should not, in principle, restrict a free economic initiative, forgive me, this is not some social liberalism or what you say about the 21st century. This is some sort of 19th century paleoliberalism. Thus, then the National Assembly should not limit the length of the worker, should not determine the part of the day off, should not determine the rights. In short, the market is above all, but society should remove any wild economic initiative that will already emerge. This, Mr Verbic, is a very outdated and extreme position which we find difficult to adopt in the 21st century, when it is clear to everyone that the market is a social institution regulated by countries and laws, like everyone else. Our Constitution is written in this direction, so it says that economic activity must not be carried out in contravention of public benefit, because it is precisely a safeguard against positions such as yours, which is in fact fundamentally unconstitutional. And last time, consumer tourism. We have discussed this a lot in the previous debate and I would only remind you. People in Slovenia go to shopping centers, it is true, on Sundays quite often, but they go there more or less for coffee and hang out. The result is that we have an empty city center. And if you're wondering if the people from Kranj will really drive to Venice for that coffee if the shopping center on the ranch is closed, I doubt they will. And I think it's the other way around. Perhaps, however, there will be some entrepreneurial initiative in the city centre to revitalize the centre and people will start going there. It is quite clear when the city centres emptied on Sundays in Slovenia or at all. That's when shopping malls were created on the slopes of the cities. Perhaps this can also help with urban tourism if, at least on Sunday, we allow people working in city centers to reach the bread.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Replica, mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Very briefly in all three cases. The fact is that what you mentioned last time, consumer tourism, you know, I belong to that category of population that we went through, and when the country regulated that it was closed, we were mass citizens not only from the immediate borders, but also from the continental work or the middle to the end of the week in shopping where possible. During the week we had work obligations and could not afford them. I don't want to, and I don't want to, now that I'm referring to this second matter that you mentioned, as far as the principle of a free economic initiative is concerned. I am a great advocate of what is in the constitutional provision. As regards the free economic initiative, the Republic of Slovenia operates in this area in the free labour market, capital and services. I hope that we understand what this means mainly in that those who appear in registered activities have relatively great freedom to carry out this activity and to create their profits. If income is not generated, it simply fails and there is neither employment nor any so-called transfers from which so-called social assistance is drawn. And when you mentioned that the Members don't work on Sundays. You know, that's how it is now. If you are judging that you are not working, it does not mean that none of the 90 Members are preparing for any discussion, it does not mean that you have to sit in this Chamber, but that if you are preparing, you too. However, if I speak for my past, I can say that I also worked almost a third of my working time at the end of the week. So it can be debated here, but this is not the point of the agenda right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u139	Thank you very much. That's what you said in the end. Mr. Luke Moon's proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u140	Thank you. I think there's a difference whether you're reading one marriage in the garden on Sunday afternoon or if you have to work on Sunday and you don't have a chance to spend that day with your family, with your children, with your partner. I think that everyone in this room needs to be aware of some difference and it's not fair that this is how you make comparisons with those who have to go to work on Sunday. Secondly, because I had seen earlier that you were hiccups when I said that such extreme liberalist views as Mr Verbic had expressed that, in principle, the DZ should not restrict a free economic initiative, contrary to the Constitution, I will read to you what the Constitutional Court said about this article, about this part of Article 74 of the Constitution which I mentioned. They wrote: “In accordance with the provisions of Article 74, paragraph 1, of the Constitution, the economic initiative is free, but the extremely liberal concept of entrepreneurship would not be in accordance with the Constitution.” And then they continue to explain the public benefit and why the legislator has the right to limit all working hours of trade. So not only was this my assessment, the Constitutional Court simply says that if you read only the first paragraph of Article 74 and therefore interpret what the National Assembly can and cannot do, you are beyond the limits of Slovenian constitutionality. Economic activity must not be carried out in contravention of public benefit. This has been written as a security guard against such views.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Ambassador Jože Lenart, I will also read the order of the following applicants: Monika Gregorčič, mag. Meira Hot and Mag. Branimir Rajić. And now I give my word to Jozet Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. I feel that there is a lot of talk today about the advantages and disadvantages of this marriage or the closure of trade. I would also like to draw attention to opportunities in my debate. See, working on Sundays and holidays is supposed to be only in cases where we need to ensure the safety and health of our society or in an economy where working processes require it or even the needs of society. High-tech industrial activity is mainly energy, then health, police, security. There is already such an exposed hospitality and wider tourism, and we are also well aware of this problem. Or do we really need this wholesale trade at this time? Can we really not survive without this celebration on Sundays and holidays? That's probably the question. We will not be alone in the European Union and in the world if we decide to shift spending to the rest of it on Sundays and holidays, or to devote weeks to other activities that are already working and which also want higher profitability. This is where I want to open up opportunities. I am talking about domestic food growers, domestic products that can fill this space through sale in markets, small shops, through rural tourism. We have been talking so much for decades about what we will do for domestic organic processors, and we now have the opportunity to open the door for them to fill this space. To say today that trade activity will fail, that thousands of people will be unemployed, is without a proper basis. We already have more and more foreign employees, we are working on a fine job. It is only transfers within activities and transfers of work and consumption to other working days. This is the core of the problem or this action that will happen. Of course, it is also a different culture of life. More freedom for all of us to go to nature, travel, tourism, culture on Sundays and holidays instead of shopping. See, this is also the case in countries such as Austria, Switzerland, as we have also heard, and such a system is normally accepted, and it is important, where it also comes from the most owners of large trading systems operating in Slovenia. That's why no one's going to fail, not wholesalers, not employees. Finally, let us not forget to draw attention to this, even to the duty towards a democratic referendum, which we have been violating for a good decade. I don't know what else would be unclear about this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Monica Gregorčič has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. This novelty of the Trade Act has been discussed for quite a number of hours in recent months, and much has been said. It sounds like a lot, but we don't understand each other. I am surprised by some views or opinions expressed by representatives of certain parliamentary groups, which are politically contradictory. For example, MEPs from New Slovenia somehow weigh between family values and economic liberalism, which they advocate, we see that this is a short one. On the other hand, members of the Left, when quoting a letter from representatives of the religious communities who expressed their support for this amendment of the Law, I cannot help but smile at their arguments. So let me immediately say that in SMC as a liberal party, of course, we allow everything, a free economic initiative and that someone goes to mass on Sundays and afternoons to trade. And that's the real liberalism, at least in my opinion. In past discussions, we have already noted that this novelty will not only affect the free economic initiative, which is constitutionally assured, but will have economic consequences, as trade activity has suffered a large loss of income due to the closure of non-living parts of trade activities during the COPID epidemic, when all non-food trades had to be closed. At the annual level, income declines are estimated to be around 25%, and we now see the prospect of closing down or banning the Sunday operation of these shops, so we can say with certainty that there are a lot of jobs at risk. This is shown by the projections of the Chamber of Commerce and the projections also show that the outflow of purchasing power or consumer demand across borders will be greater than the inflow on the remaining days of the week. In the end, I think it will show that in the SMC Group we have also tabled an amendment which, according to the referendum question more than ten years ago, would allow trade to operate at least ten weeks a year. At least that would further ease up and somehow save some jobs. In the end, I think it will turn out that SMC is the one who is essentially advocating, at the end of the day, the right to work for workers and workers in trade. Let me mention here, my colleague Masha Kociper has already highlighted the controversial functioning of some unions, which I also doubt are acting in the interests of their members. These, for example, are students. Students have also turned to us with individual stories or views of the situation that there has been a major drop in student work, that work has been lost by those who, or will want to do it, and that, in fact, will be lost almost overnight to some very important source of income. As far as the Trade Workers Union is concerned, this is, in my opinion, a little too politically defined for the benefit of the proposer, colleagues from the Left Group and the public punishment of the Modern Centre Party. It denies us the legitimacy of decision-making, compares our public support with the support of their polls conducted by members on Sunday's interest in work. You know, these are a little bit of depressed statements, and even when Members essentially call us duplicity, we go to mass on Sundays, and then we vote that Sunday's work is not banned. I didn't know that it was still controlled, who and what went to mass, that we were still in another system. As it is said, I am convinced that this law, if adopted in any form, will endanger several thousand jobs in trade activities. I call on or ask for the support of at least this pardonary amendment, which would allow trade to operate at least ten weeks a year, which is also in line with the referendum question more than ten years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Suggesting Luke Moon, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u146	Thank you. Just a comment about job losses. In fact, you are somewhat repeating what Marić Lah, President of the Chamber of Commerce, said that this would mean a 10 % drop in revenue at the annual level and up to 12 000 additional unemployed. These claims were checked on the sharp.si portal, where they turned to two economists, Bogomier Kovac and Anžet Burger. The other is very difficult to define as any leftist economist, it has very liberal economic views, but they both considered such statements unfounded and said that foreign studies do not show such effects. When asked about trade chains such as Hofer, Spar, and Lidl, what the effects would be, everyone replied that they could not evaluate them. In short, there is no solid evidence at this point that anything like this would happen. However, I will reiterate that the employees, although faced with such views, unanimously support the closing of trade on Sundays not only after surveys conducted by the union, Lidl conducted a survey among his employees himself, which showed that 90% of the respondents attached to closing trade on Sundays, although they were explicitly told that this would result in a loss of salaries because they would not receive bonuses for the Sunday work that were among the highest in Lidl, but the employees said 90 percent said that they would rather be home on Sundays than get this bonus. As far as employees' opinions are concerned, it is uniform. As far as the public is concerned, and I have said many times, you can look at any survey, it will show you 70 to 80 percent support for closing shops on Sundays. So in this sense, I don't think there's any concern that there might be any drastic changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u148	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Let me first say that I really care whether one union supports Levica or not, what is the purpose of this law. That is why we also immediately approached and supported. The fact is, for 17 years, there have been some wild attempts to implement the very clear referendum will, which was that citizens and citizens support closing trade on Sundays. Thus, traders and traders are given the right to rest, to Sunday rest, which should in fact be the fundamental right of every worker, but unfortunately in this context this debate is of course duplicity because in certain sectors it is impossible to ensure this. When the first wave of the Coronavirus epidemic struck us, when the government was also forced to decide to shut down trade on Sundays, we all saw that this was not such a problem that we would not be harmed if the trades were closed on Sundays and then the trade union with Levica rejoined and proposed a legal solution for closing trade on Sundays. While at the time of the first reading, we warned the Social Democrats that we support closing trade on Sundays, but at the same time that some legitimate exceptions should be added, which are different from those large trading chains or businesses, which on the other hand are important stakeholders in tourism. At that time, a fundamental question opened for us was how to strike a balance between the right of workers and workers to rest, as well as the free economic initiative or the right to work, how to ensure that the employer can no longer force Sunday work in trade, while at the same time ensuring that small entrepreneurs or small traders who want to work to do business on Sundays are able to strike a balance between essential care and access to basic necessities of life. Thus, an amendment was proposed and adopted enabling up to 200 square metres of independent entrepreneurs, procurists or businesspeople to work in stores. In my opinion, this supplement actually addressed a fundamental open question or injustice that could potentially have arisen and, in my opinion, the law was indeed optimal in such a form. Unfortunately, the content and meaning of the law were then accompanied by the added exceptions adopted at the July session on the proposal of the SMC. These additions actually put traders in a potentially worse position than they do today because they encouraged essentially a laxative work. It therefore promotes student and pension work, which is likely to be paid even better than in fact paid by regular workers. This means that, in fact, such a supplement actually makes the situation of already burned workers and workers worse. Such additions and additions, which are proposed today, except for the Complementary of the Left, which, of course, will be absolutely supported by the Social Democrats, because it restores the law back to its original form, which in our view is the only appropriate one, will further enforce the law. In fact, instead of protecting workers, we will further endanger their position, all with a view to preserving the constitutionally guaranteed right to free economic initiative and to conceal all the other purposes that you are pursuing. In the end, you will complete this law with all these, or it has already been announced that it will land in the Constitutional Court, because you will set so many exceptions that will mean that some discrimination is and will be very difficult to justify why some were admissible and others not. It seems to me that you are following some such purpose of concealing the law that it will ultimately be constitutionally disputed, which I find really unsustainable. And sad from the point of view of merchants and merchants, really sad. If someone expresses a very clear will and desire and here comes and tells you all of their stories, if you hear any testimony, I don't know how you can refuse, how you can propose one supplement just and solely in order to achieve, then legally in essence everything will fail and that the law will eventually fall. That's really amazing to me. Instead of protecting the workers, we will end up with the proposed law, which follows something truly well-intentioned, the implementation of a referendum will, as well as the protection of workers and workers, we will achieve the exact opposite. You mentioned how certain industries are, such as the catering industry, which could also require closure on Sundays, so inn and so on, but the hospitality and tourism union itself has submitted a letter of support, so it supports closing trade on Sundays. Why? Probably due to solidarity, because they understand that the work of traders and traders is slightly different from theirs, that opening mega shopping centres on Sundays is probably not as vital as the availability of catering services. It'll be a little harder to lock you up on Sundays. Even if that's what you can do. Now the bars are closing at 10:30 p.m. And if I read to you what they say in the union of catering and tourism workers, I quote: "There is also working time in the restaurant and tourism all the days of the week. That's why we know these feelings. However, we are also aware that tourism is a specific sector. But it does not seem right for us to do so where work can be arranged differently. Working in shops on Sundays and holidays and working off days are not necessarily seen as urgent, not as urgent.” We can only confirm that. So trading on Sundays is not as vital as the work of a nurse. If the guests who experience this on their own are in solidarity with them, I do not understand how we cannot be Members and Members in order to allow them at least one day a week to really have the right to rest and to spend time with their family. Not that we are looking all the time for a path to escape the purpose of the law, the purpose of the law will be destroyed, and it will be achieved that the law will either fall in the Constitutional Court or through certain loopholes in the law make it possible for students and pensioners to work in a way that further exacerbates the situation of traders and traders. Or even in some way they are forced by these potential forgives, as we have heard many times today, but the data shows that in fact traders and traders are not enough. They're understaffed, they need extra jobs in this business. They need better pay for their work, they need better working conditions and they definitely need more employees. So I think we should discuss these issues how to improve working conditions, not how to improve the position of the owners of large traders, because I think you are defending this. We absolutely support the adoption of the amendment proposed by the Left to bring the law back to its original form, as adopted by the Committee on the Economy in July, and the final application of the referendum will of citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I've got one last report, mag. Branislav Rajić, who I also apologize to for mislabelling when I read, who is yet to be discussed. I'm asking if anyone else wants to apply for a debate. Gregor Perich. Anyone else? No, no, no. Then I give the word "magic." Rajich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u150	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, the name is "trophy" from the first one, so we can go on, of course it's a joke. I understand my colleague, Meiro Hot, that's what she's saying because she lives on the border. The fact that it can go to Italy at any time, where everything is open on Sundays, is very flexible and suddenly opens up an understanding for others. But I would go back to realizing the will of the electorate after the referendum in 2003. They are always trying to keep quiet that this referendum issue has opened up the prospect of opening up trade at least 10 weeks a year. And that's the essential difference. If you remember crowding in the malls or even in stores before the new year, the May Day holidays, Easter holidays, Christmas, even before the potato holidays, it is clear that this habit has come to our attention and that this has become a need mainly because many activities, which are also related to family activities, are taking place on Saturdays. When you have children who participate in sports, and even if you reorganize yourself, Saturday is the day when it is all about these purposes, for these functions. For this reason, Sunday is something that's great to take care of the infrastructure of life at all. And shopping is part of it. Of course, it's not about buying eight hours a Sunday, but you have the chance that it's open. I would also respond quickly to this comment by my colleague Hot that the availability of guest services is more important. I think if we compare the purchases of diapers, milk, bread with catering services, then we quickly come up with an answer that we think is sound. Anyone who thinks he has done a favor to traders and traders may not have wondered among them who really wants to be paid more on Sundays, who needs this work on Sundays, who wants to have one of the available working days due to their specific family needs. Here are some things that are getting too generalized and just relying on the union statements, which, in fact, when there was an agreement in the Economic and Social Council, somehow it seemed that there was no way to get any concrete results from these talks because it seemed to be avoiding them. This idea of an archetype week to provide as many souls as possible is also contrary to the drama of 20,000 people who may lose their jobs. As you know, in trade, trade and related industries, there are 110 thousand people working and working. This closing of shops on Sundays and holidays is counting on a number of them to be forgiven, and I'm afraid that more than 10, 15 thousand will go, they're estimated at 20,000. The collapse of traffic due to the closure of trades on Sundays and holidays would not translate into higher revenues between the other days of the week, but would spill abroad. Our neighbouring countries expect this very carefully, and they do not have restrictions on the operation of trade on Sundays and holidays. In the SMC, we also disagree with the proposaler's statement that the amendment to this law will have no negative financial implications. We are confident that the negative effects on the economy, such as job losses and tax cuts, will be clearly clear to us, on the other hand, that there will be many more requirements for social assistance. Therefore, we do not believe that the applicant has carried out any analysis of the possible consequences for jobs, for the state budget and for the trade sector in general. We still have a student work problem. That's a problem, too. But I would like to remind you that out of 100,000 students and students, many of them have their share of existence or at least some parts of their budget that they can't afford, just base, pump and build on this extra work on Saturdays and Sundays. Why Saturdays and Sundays? Because they work on other days. And if we compare the number of those who have scholarships and those who are additionally financed by their own work through student service, these are three times the number of recipients of scholarships. I also want to say that we have received a letter from the Student Organisation of Slovenia, which supports us in insisting on this amendment, because this is the only way that those who depend on student work income can recover financially. It is also interesting that we received a letter from the Youth Plus Syndicate. They do not agree that they are considered to be cheap labour and that the question arises and who they advocate. Do they advocate for young people? Because we received one opinion from the largest student organisation, and from the Youth Plus Union, we don't know who they are now. Maybe this plus when it's in their name, because otherwise things are pretty vague. The next inaccuracies are that small stores will not be compromised. They will, because if someone who owns the store gets sick and can't organise the aid on Sundays, there's just a huge income drop. On the other hand, many have worked their entire lives to create as good a trade as possible, more suitable for sale, and if they have a store that has 400 square feet [400 sq m], it is practically impossible to use that day, which is also unfair. In the beginning, a colleague of Violeta Tomić had one such dramatic bravure when she alluded to the morals of all of us who will press, as she said, minus for this law. But that's amazing! Because the last thing we expected was for the preacher of the Left to urge us to respect the Lord's day. Because here we really see things get out of hand. We have a whole range of letters of support, Chamber of Commerce Slovenia, Camp Šbek, Lesce, Chamber of Commerce Slovenia, Compass shop, Student organization Slovenia, Petrol, OMF, not to mention any more. Most of the time, it is not so uniform that everyone is against this closure. Some are aware of the problems that this brings. One is not waiting in line at the gas station on Sundays to buy yogurt at thirty percent higher prices because it is getting more expensive there. When we come to the subject of this positive discrimination, it is unclear why an airport vendor can work, but not in a camp that has the same tourist important function. Why is she gonna lose her job now? One of them's gonna lose her job, the other one's not. The question is why there are so many exceptions. Every law, when wisely conceived, depending on the area to which it relates, must prevent all exceptions. There are many exceptions because we have many different situations to deal with. My colleague Luke Moon is trying to get a better response to his proposal with the case of two 22-year-olds. Why does one have the right to work and the other doesn't? We can also ask why one is studying and the other is not studying. Because the student has a week's study, but at weekends, if he wants to, and if he needs to, he can get a job. The one who doesn't study probably works for five days, and he doesn't have to work these two days. So it's not about inequality between them. I think this case is being misexposed. We are in the SMC for an open economic initiative and respect for workers' rights, but we expect employers and trade unions to talk together about respect for these rights or, if you want, trade unions and employers. But it's just that it's a playful meeting that never happens. We are not extremely liberal, as Luke said, we highly appreciate what is in their proposal of idealism and of the nobility of this initiative, and that is clear. But we also want to think about the freedom of everyone else, including those who have Sunday left to buy, and on behalf of the freedom of those who may lose their jobs, and when they ring the bells late, they would not know whether to draw the bells with their left or with their right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Replica, Meira Hot.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The honourable colleague has repeatedly challenged me in his debate and mentioned it by name, so that I think it is a valid replica. First of all, I must warn you that your observation was very sexist. Just because I'm a woman or live on the coast doesn't mean I go shopping in Italy on Sundays. And I don't actually walk. Not even if trade is closed in Slovenia. So I find this observation very unwarranted. You don't know me, you don't know how I spend my Sunday time, and I think it's pure sexism, and I expect an apology from you. Second of all, you mentioned small traders. Let me tell you that with the amendment adopted in July, which we adopted on the Committee, small stores of up to 200 square meters, which can then operate on Sundays, independent entrepreneurs, procurators or managers, were very well received on the Coast. When you arrive in Piran, you have a number of independent entrepreneurs on the street who have welcomed such a provision because they feel that there is nothing wrong with you taking your time as a manager on Sundays and working instead of an employee. It was more important for them to be given the opportunity to have the right to work. And this has been assured by this amendment, and I welcome it, and I think that in this way the law is absolutely optimal. Thirdly, I didn't say that hospitality was existential goods. If that's what I said, then I apologize for not expressing myself properly. I said that hospitality is still part of a specific industry, that tourism is a specific industry and that in this context there is a difference between one inn and one shopping centre, which does not just perform some absolutely necessary work on Sundays. Even the guest workers themselves recognized this, which are those who also work under very difficult conditions, but have nevertheless expressed solidarity with traders and traders and support the closure of trade on Sundays. And then who are we to challenge? I really don't get it. I'm really asking you, stop with these indirect threats, how many forgivenesss will follow. Is it not a shame that you then defend those who would then forgive if it closed on Sundays? Do you know from the statistics that they're understaffed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposer, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I would also have some replicas for the previous debate. Now I'm gonna start in the back. You told your colleague Rajić that there was no valid dispute in the case that I showed two twenty-two-year-olds. One on a student business trip, the other on a business contract. Although you have made an argument, it would be very difficult to accept it legally, because the problem I am pointing out remains unanswered. And this is how to justify the distinction according to the situation on the labour market. In several judgments, the Constitutional Court has already ruled that this is not justified by the fact that this is not an permitted distinction. However, the distinction that we have written in our amendment, which differs according to the interest between an entrepreneur and an employee, is allowed. But that's allowed, and that's what the Constitutional Court just said. But you can't draw the difference between one form of work and another form of work or, I don't know, between the unemployed elder and someone who's retired, they can be the same age. There you will find it very difficult to explain why one can work and the other cannot. Once again, the problem will be, and it is clear that Marića Lah has already said that there will be a constitutional opinion on this law. And such exceptions may be annulled in the Constitutional Court. That is why we cannot accept them, although if we were to talk in general, we could say that they are not wrong, but the problem is that we have a situation of constitutional non-compliance, and this could be the case for law in the Constitutional Court. Second thing. You've already said 20,000 people are going to lose their jobs. This is again, I said earlier that neither economists nor traders themselves speculate on how many people are going to lose their jobs because they say that it is not possible to judge this at present. But we can assume how much work lost them during the epidemic. As far as I know, trade employment has not decreased, even though the stores were closed on Sundays. They did, however, so that trade was not among those companies that received huge State aid. On the other hand, it is clear that 7,000 workers in trade are missing. That's what I'm talking about. If you want a more direct confirmation that people are missing, but you can, here I have a photographed flyer distributed by Mercator called Earn your prize with your candidate. And then it says, this is a letter to the employees: "Every new employee proposed by Mercator's employees and agency workers will be employed in our company in accordance with human resources procedures, and once the candidate has successfully completed the probationary work for three months, the applicants will receive the award, 100 Euro gross salary allowance and 100 Euro e-bons on the Pika card." It's called a project. Earn your prize with your candidate. So, the employees in the store are understaffed, people are missing, and businesses like Mercator reward their workers if they convince you of a friend, a colleague, a friend, a family member to go to Mercator's job. That's the current situation. There's not enough people, there's too much work to do. And that also comes from the operating time of trade. Look, these people work literally for minimum wages on checkouts, we pay with a credit card, so the tip is not much, but their work is often arranged all day or afternoon, when those who work in the morning and the children at home work on Sundays, have six-day workers and so on. It is understandable that this profession has become unattractive for people. That's why people are missing, and maybe we can even fix this picture if we close down on Sundays. Someone might be able to make a better decision about this profession than they do today. And last time, I really can't accept these images of disaster, how they're going to spin on gas stations for yogurt and so on. Look, we had stores closed for four months during quarantine, but there were no specialties. Even in the summers when the quarantine was no longer available, July, the shops were closed on Sundays, and people were virtually undetected. So nothing will change dramatically for those who do not work in stores, but life will be better for those 30,000 people who have to work on Sundays. And it's about them. We decide their fates today. I once again call on all Members and Members to reflect on what your vote will be for these 30,000 people, their families, their partners, their children and how to enable the law to survive not only the debate in the National Assembly, but also the hearing in the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u155	The word is Gregor Perich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u156	Thank you, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! We are essentially putting ourselves in charge of employers and employees by this law. We once had social dialogue in Slovenia, and now we decide that we do not need this social dialogue anymore, because obviously we have eaten the whole mind of the world in here and we communicate to the social partners in the future, if there are any problems that need to be solved so that they do not solve them at all, because somehow we will come up with these problems here and then, with one or another majority of us, we will take some action, some solution that will be after a year, to many people, but God help them, no harm, no more happiness for the future. This is our message today. And listening to the fact that it is the Left that is, and there are many on the left hand side, assists us in overcoming social dialogue as a kind of value that has been growing and developing over the decades, which surprises me in its own way. But it can also be reversed that sometimes in this social dialogue that is not, the weaker side will also be on the workers' side, and then there will be a whole hall and there will be fire in the roof and we will all be smart again as to how social dialogue needs to be respected. I still think that if employers and employees can agree on their own, let them talk for an hour, ten hours or ten days because of me. They have already done so in the past, they have adopted a collective agreement, this collective agreement is still in force. As far as I understand, the workers, i.e. the unions, withdrew from this collective agreement and did not want to talk anymore. What kind of dialogue is this, what kind of message, I don't know, but I don't think it's good. However, I am aware that this issue has been something we have been saving for 17 years, and we have not yet solved it. When we asked people about this 17 years ago, I guess at that time something changed, I think that a lot of things, maybe we could ask people again, even the conditions when that referendum was carried out, under today's conditions, under the rules that apply today would certainly not apply because it did not reach the quorum. I don't rule out people saying the same thing again and saying we want closed shops, but then people said they wanted stores that were open ten weeks a year. We don't allow that either. We've gone to some variant that we're apologizing for with certain arguments, but if you want to and if you want to put yourself on the side of someone who's freedom as such at least a small value, then you'll have serious problems with this or you'll understand things in a very different way. When we do these comparisons, we've given a criterion of 200 square meters, and someone has a store of 205 square meters will close when we're comparing a student or a young man into one or another legal relationship in terms of employment. We can also ask ourselves here what the Constitutional Court will say. Above all, let us stop talking here about how the Constitutional Court will decide because we are not the Constitutional Court. I think you've also recently received some kind of lesson in this regard in terms of restricting movement within the municipalities. Let's all step one step back. However, I would like to hear someone here today who will assure me that by adopting this law we will increase the revenue in the industry, so that we will increase the purchasing power, so that there will be no outflow of purchasing power abroad, that we will collect more duties at the expense of this law, so that we will have better care to have more jobs. I'd like to hear someone say it in here who hopes to stand up and say that all this will be fulfilled, so more revenue, better purchasing power, no outflows abroad, more taxes collected, more taxes. So we'll have more social states. More jobs. I don't know. I'm afraid there won't be anyone here who hopes to put himself in this position because we all know that won't be possible. When we expose certain merchants, let us stop exposing those large ones who have, because you yourself have found enough of a buffer, enough of some stock to compensate for it in one way or another. Let's look at those who built certain things from nothing that started from scratch and then set up some big store, and now we've told them, for sure, but now you can't. How will you find yourself? Yeah, find yourself, just like before. We don't have the answer to that, and we won't have it. And there will certainly be losses of profits, they will certainly be unemployed. And those people are just gonna have to go somewhere else. And probably these entrepreneurs think, "Why do I even bother if someone comes and decides with today for tomorrow? And I just shut it down, even though the people's will allows me to do at least ten weeks a year. Nor is it because I have a store with 205 squares instead of 199.» Is that okay? No, I don't think so. Yeah, sure, everything's getting better, 'cause we saw how fast we could fix it. I do not agree with this, even when we put ourselves in a position to defend this or that group of people with us, including students, at the final stage we were told by the SOS that it seems important to them that students also have the opportunity to work. Again, we said no. And even when they write to us, we hear them one time, the next time we don't hear them. And we know how it is with students, and we also know how it is with the elderly. In fact, we've created one problem that we shouldn't be solving here for my ideas at all. As it is said, we have a social dialogue and let these issues be resolved there. Just as the social partners have already reconciled each other and since one of the social partners has resigned from this, he has apparently seemed to you from the Left and has felt the opportunity to make it all go away. You supported them, but for my understanding, it's a spit in the face of social dialogue. And this is a very bad precedent for the future as well. And I can't support such a marriage with such solutions. And even when we're talking about tourism. These things go hand in hand. And we're just going to send some signal to tourists that we don't find that interesting. Even though trade can be easily opened in Italy and Croatia on Sunday, Hungary has also taken a step back, and in fact there are only five countries in the European Union where it is not possible to buy on Sunday. As we say, this can be our decision again. But I don't agree with that decision. In particular, because it is made of horror and overruns all those standards of some dialogue within the society that we have been building for years and years. As it is said, if you convince me that there will be more revenue at the expense of this sector, that there will be no outflow of purchasing power abroad, that we will collect more levies on this account, that there will be better care and that we will have more jobs on this account, great, support. But I doubt that'll be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The word is "Cygler's Turtle." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Dearly noted, the facts mentioned during the coronary crisis, when all trades in Slovenia reduced their operating time, were closed on Sundays, data was clearly exposed that sales did not fall, profit did not fall. This year, despite the coronavirus, trades have an extremely high profit. Also, the workers were more pleased when they were able to rest better on Sundays or in short periods of time. As far as social dialogue is concerned, Mr Perič, as long as this law and the problem of closing trade on Sundays in Slovenia has been discussed since 2003, I do not know if so many laws have been discussed if there has been so much social dialogue. Trade unions, employers, as mentioned earlier in the Chamber of Commerce and Maričo Lah, the economists keep on adverting, media discussions are under way, workers through the trade union. The union expresses its opinion, not its one-party opinion, has a clear position on closing trade on Sundays. And it is also a calculated case from the point of view of trade and the position of workers, because if trade is not “laufa”, workers also do not have a job. The National Assembly has spoken about this for the third time now, and in the past, I do not know how many times it has spoken about it. As far as I'm concerned, she made sure of what would happen. Yesterday’s manager of Enzo Smrekar, CEO of Atlantic Droga Kolinske – this is a company that greatly increases its sales, is practically at the top of the added value to a worker in the country, creating profits – what did he say when he spoke on television to employers and workers and Members of the National Assembly yesterday? In the first place is the worker, that he is satisfied to feel belonging to the company, that he is rested, healthy, that he can work so that he can create new added value. And he said that they give the first and greatest emphasis. For each one of us, we see that he has developed his employment career, that he has leave to have normal working conditions. In the case of trade, this also means Sunday's work. Look, that's one piece of evidence, that's the assurances, that's the concrete experience. But I must say that today, when I listened to my colleague Rajić, Verbič, Kociprovo, Gregorčičeva and also you, Mr Perič, with all due respect for you, I must say that I find that you are practically discussing this proposal for amendments to the trade law that this national assembly will adopt. It is true, even though she has made a proposal to Levi, this national assembly has decided on it. So do you. You're talking about this thing and you're discussing it with a fig in your pocket. You have always highlighted the position of commercial capital. That 30,000 workers working in the store, it's like they're gone. The arguments, as well as how their rest on Sundays, would benefit the capital itself to create more, to earn more, to have more to gain, to have more to gain than to not hear. You're talking about hiring extra, helping students, helping pensioners, helping family members to work. See, this is for one reason only, because you are aware that the amendment you want to introduce the work of these social categories is practically the biggest problem which can be highlighted and amended by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. I therefore propose that you join the proposal of those parties, which we have here together found that the amendment proposed and adopted by the National Assembly benefits both employees and capital in trade. In short, pull the figs out of your pocket, hands out of your pocket and normally support a proposal that is in the interests and interests of people, employees and also trade capital in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Luke Moon's proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u160	Thank you very much. When opposers of this law speak in the name of others, you say it quite in your head and without justification. You like to talk about what would be good for the employees, but you didn't ask them or your words go directly into the contradiction by what they sent us to the committee when we discussed this law. When you speak on behalf of small businesses in trade, you forget the fact that, for example, a petition in Primorsk began to be collected at the beginning of this law, which, when we said that managers in stores would be able to work, shut down, and the initiators of this petition were satisfied with this solution. When you talk about students and pensioners, you see for yourself that you are going against the Youth Plus Syndicate and the Pensioners' Syndicate, which have said completely different things than you say. In short, when you speak on behalf of others, do not speak in order for those others to be heard, but speak in essence through the interest of a large commercial capital, which is the only one in the interest of opening trade on Sundays. And you don't know that one, because that's actually why they're more or less quiet. I've never seen, I don't know, the President of the Mercator administration raise this issue at all. And it's clear why not. As colleague Polnar said, which worked in trade for many years, many businesses are open on Sundays only because competition is also open. Although they have the worst traffic on Sundays and the least sales on Sundays, they are open only to avoid losing loyal customers who, instead of being in Mercator at that time, would exceptionally turn into Hofer. And so they're in some unhealthy competition. Of course, there are people here who are employed who have a ruined week, who therefore have no rest and who, as they have written themselves, often get sick early, retire disabled, and so on. This type of economic initiative you defend, work on Sundays, is socially harmful. It's harmful to employees. It costs a lot of people a private life and costs a lot of money after many years of health. And we are here as a legislator to discuss how to regulate this market properly. Arrangements to have a job every seven days a week — but who wants to live in such a society? But who wants to live in the 21st century in a society where we work around and where we don't even have time for ourselves anymore? We are actually going there, but if anyone, parliament can set boundaries for such unhealthy social models. And one of the key points is the cut-off of business on Sunday. So once again, I urge you not to speak on behalf of others if you do not have any reasonable justification for this, and, secondly, when you summarize such and other developments, be concrete. You're saying the unions didn't want to talk. Look, the unions tried for 17 years with social dialogue, 17 years. And where are we? For a fully liberalised market in stores. So who was blackmailing? But the unions were the ones who forced such an arrangement or whether it was the employers.? I think the answer is very clear if you're just wondering what the current situation is. When you say that this law goes through social dialogue – this law is in the domain of the National Assembly. This legitimacy is also given to us by the Constitutional Court following a 2003 ruling. I would like to recall when you speak on the government's side about what goes through social dialogue. All your anti-Korona measures have gone through social dialogue. Everybody. This is not the way to draw attention to social dialogue only when it suits you. When you ask what the Constitutional Court will do, and you say that what we say is pure speculation. They're not. Because it's not the first time he's judged and we know what he's like.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u161	The government representative, Secretary of State Simon Zajc, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In short, it might be possible to complement and explain the opinion of the Government which opposes this amendment of the law in the work when it came to small businesses and small entrepreneurs. It has been said that this amendment or amendment has provided for them and that their fear is overemphasized. We fear that this is not the case, not on the basis of predictions, but on the basis of what this change of law will bring, it is indeed difficult for any one of us to predict on the basis of a sense of what this change of law will bring, but this conclusion is based on the experience of the two countries that have taken a very similar path, as we are now going in the short term. So not Austria, which has this since 1983, or Germany, which also has a long tradition of this, but we are talking about Poland and Hungary. Hungary did so in 2015, Poland in 2018. Poland, by the way, gradually. First, they allowed the stores to open for two weeks, then one week, and this year they should not be open on Sundays or for a maximum of seven weeks a year. Their exceptions are very similar to those proposed now. These are, say, petrol pumps and also shops where owners work. After an analysis by the Polish Parliament's analysis sector, the turnover of small businesses dropped by 20-30% on Sundays. However, it was more painful to see the decline at the expense of large discount traders at that time in selling during the week. In fact, large merchants have more resources and could also afford better promotions, but smaller ones do not, and they suffered even more damage during the week than they did at the weekend. In Poland, following this analysis of the Polish Parliament, the largest number of petrol pumps for which the ban is not applicable and the large discount traders who have increased traffic during the week through large advertising and promotion campaigns. In Hungary, they passed the law in 2015. There are similar exceptions. Also, the sale of up to 200 square metres, in which owners and their family members work, could be opened. Well, they don't have this law anymore. It lasted one year, but at that time, the findings were as follows. The measure had a small impact on retail trade, but during the week the shops were then opened longer than otherwise to compensate for Sunday’s drop. However, the biggest damage was caused by small trade, which is exactly the opposite of what they expected and what we expect, small trade in Hungarian ownership and tourism. This was mainly the case for the capital, where shoppers in the city centre, depending on Sunday sales, were unable or were able to replace this drop because tourists mainly come over the weekend. We have such examples of cities in our country. These are some experiences of consequences that are not predicates or feelings, but actually the consequences of this for small entrepreneurs. That's how much I wanted to add to the government's opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor forward, let me say that two debaters, mag, were reported by the SMC. Dušan Verbič and Monika Gregorčič, but only 2 minutes and 13 seconds of time are available. Okay. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I am aware that it is a very short time, but it is very difficult for a person to hold back from making a few words to the applicant. First of all, I ask you not to be offensive in the future, because my discussions in this case and in others are always such that I speak for myself. Don't push it, and through political, what I do know, the kind of dialogue you kind of start some sort of thing. You must be aware, Mr Luka Mesec, of your thinking in this case and even your approach is very discolored by the so-called socialist philosophy of the functioning of the market in the Republic of Slovenia. I am, however, a very large advocate of the free market, the movement of goods and services, including capital. And here we have a fundamentally different view of the free economic initiative and the prohibition of unfair competition. The fact is, if they are not adequately paid traders and traders, I am simply in the position that this cannot be the reason for the intervention in the opening times of trade. As I have already said in my debate, the fact is that those entities in the Republic of Slovenia that are registered for their activities simply in their business decisions, whether they will offer their goods and services every day for a week or just a few days, this regulation of working time should not be sold by the State or politics. Please distinguish between so-called free service market activities, because I believe that we are somehow different in our conversation. Just two more words. I don't know why you should limit someone to the market if they want to work on Sundays or holidays. I don't understand. I don't understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Luke Moon's proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u166	Thank you. I'd like to ask you, too, for some honesty. What we regulate by this law is not socialism, but, if you want, there is some basic requirement that the market economy also has a social function. This is normal throughout Europe and the fight for free time, as one of the labour rights, is the oldest social struggle in Europe. If you say that regulating working time is too much regulation, then you ask not only work on Sundays, but regulation of working time in general. We're here in very clear positions. People don't live to work, we work to live. The basic quality of life that we would like to achieve is that people who work and people in stores can work hard, and they live well from their work. The basis of a good life is free time. Earlier, the secretary from the Ministry of Economy had read, say, the balance sheet data of Poland and Hungary, but when we talk about work on Sundays or any kind of work, we also need to talk about how people are experiencing it. Not what it looks like through prism tables and numbers and flow of money, but what it looks like through the prisms of people. I will repeat that we have received 11 pages of sections from employees who are all telling the same story. They tell us that they're exhausted, that they don't have time for themselves, that they don't have time for their family, that they can't be with their children on Sundays, that when they're friy in the middle of the week, they cook and clean and don't even rest, that they have one Sunday off for 14 days, and that it's not their free choice, as you say in SMC, but it's part of the employment contract, and they're forced to work on Sundays. They didn't make up their own mind, but they were forced to. Finally, there are 7 000 employees missing from the store, which means that those who are employed are over-burdened, and that is ultimately recognised by traders or owners and trade managers. Their recognition, however, can be read from the leaflets I read to you, literally offering 200 euros in rewards to their employees if they convince any of their friends to work in large commercial chains. This is an existing situation in Slovenia. It works too hard, people are exhausted, there's no interest in such work, and I don't know who you're defending for honor. But defend it not only with your discourses, but mainly with the amendments, whose purpose is clear and I have said it several times today: the law to stop after the adoption of the National Assembly at the Constitutional Court. I am running out of time for this debate, but I would like to ask Members and Members once again not to look at this story through the attempts of some legal frauds or naked financial data, but to ask yourself, above all, how these 30,000 people, who are the subject of our treatment today, are experiencing this and how their children, their families, are experiencing it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u167	You don't have time anymore, I'm sorry. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Bandelli, but you've only got 32 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u168	Thank you, Chairman. I hope you'll give us more time because we have one more hour of 42 to share what it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u169	There's no time-sharing.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u170	How?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u171	There's no time-sharing.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u172	Good. What I want to say in five seconds, I don't have much. We will support this law. The other thing I think is, I really couldn't get in line because I'm probably the only trader in here and I'd have plenty to say for and against this case. That's not how I got the chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-25-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendments to be decided on Tuesday 29 September 2020 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the meeting's timing. I hereby end this agenda item and the 20th meeting of the Assembly, to be resumed on Tuesday 29 September 2020 at 9 a.m.
