ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with the continuation of the 48th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mag. Dejan Jidan, Franz Kramar, mag. Carmen Furman, Yuri Leprechaun, Branko Simonovic, Daniel Krivec, Maša Kociper and Aljaž Kovacic. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, cooperation at a meeting outside the meeting of the National Assembly has not been announced by any Member or Member of the Parliament, using the application for a remote meeting for today. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 10. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on the protection of personal data in the field of the defence of criminal acts, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Justice Mag. Lilliani Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u2	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members! The protection of personal data is a fundamental human right arising from Article 38 of the Constitution. Its implementation and protection in the Republic of Slovenia has been regulated by the Personal Data Protection Act so far, and the adoption of the Personal Data Protection Act will not be the only one to deal with it today. Directive 2016/680 requires a new legal regime to ensure a high level of protection of personal data of individuals who are involved in the investigation and handling of criminal offences against the police, the State Prosecutor's Office, institutions for the cessation of imprisonment, trial and partly before the courts, due to the development of technology and the increasingly automated processing of personal data. At the same time, it imposes protection of the public interest, namely the detection, investigation and prosecution of crimes that violate the fundamental values of a democratic society. The conflict of both rights required proportionality, in particular because of the processing of personal data by the repressive authorities. In preparing the proposal, the Ministry of Justice followed the principle of a high level of protection of personal data and therefore prescribed significantly stricter technological, organisational and legal criteria for the processing of personal data compared to the general regulation. In order to protect the public interest, the Directive requires a restriction on information to both the individual and the supervisory authority. An individual who may not be informed of his own personal data for a limited period of time in order to endanger the performance of an operational act or to endanger the human rights of third parties. However, the supervisory authority may be kept informed of the reasons for the restriction. In addition to legal protection, he is also provided with independent judicial protection in administrative and inspection proceedings, in which he may also request compensation. However, the Authority must not be familiar with the names of the secret co-workers, the protected witnesses, or persons with a modified identity; it may, however, take note of all other information. We can also expose police operations. The demand for regulation resulted in three justice ministers dealing with this matter. In July this year, we held a second public debate and, with the information officer and other authorities, carried out extremely difficult coordination. In particular, coordination of aspects of regulation between the Ministry of the Interior and the Information Commissioner and aspects between the Information Officer and the Ministry of Public Administration. Unfortunately, all the comments made by the information officer, whose work I highly appreciate, have not been taken into account. However, we have consulted on all of them with the Legislative and Legal Service, which, as such, has not troubled them. The demand for material has led Slovenia to a delay in implementation, which should take place in May 2018. Not only because of the European Commission's threat to us, but also because of the effective protection of personal data and the granting of powers to the supervisory authorities, I propose that we adopt a proposal for a law. Finally, since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I propose that a third consideration of the draft law be carried out at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Justice as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! At its 20th meeting on 3 November 2020, the Committee on Justice considered the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data in the field of the handling of criminal offences submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and published on the websites of the National Assembly on 11 September 2020. Representative of the proposer, Minister of Justice mag. Ms Kozlovič presented, in a supplementary explanation of the articles of the draft law, the progress of the procedure for the preparation of the bill, the reasons for the adoption, the principles, the addressees and the essential novelties of the bill, including mentioning that Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data processed by the competent authorities for the purposes of preventing, investigating, detecting or prosecuting criminal offences or the enforcement of criminal sanctions, is being transposed into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the free movement of such data. When preparing the bill, they pursued the maintenance of the high level of data protection in the Republic of Slovenia. In its presentation of the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said, inter alia, that the Legislative and Legal Service had examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects; and then presented comments from a legal system and a general comment. It further touched on the amendments tabled by SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus, which, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, largely address the comments made. This was followed by a more detailed presentation of comments by the Legislative and Legal Service, which have not been removed by the amendments tabled, in particular comments on the position of the applicant with a specific position in the supervisory procedure with regard to equal protection of rights. National Councillor Rajko Fajt further said that the Commission of the State Council for State Regulation supports the proposal for a law. During his presentation of the written opinion by the Commission, he highlighted the issues of state councillors on the Commission. In the debate, opposition Members addressed the draft law's proposal with criticism about the drafting of the bill and the number of amendments tabled. Among other things, they highlighted the importance of the different stakeholders' comments, were interested in taking into account the views of the Information Officer and amending the draft law in relation to 2019 and mentioned the short deadline for public debate, the incompleteness of the bill and the late implementation of the directive. They considered that the amendments tabled did not fully eliminate all comments made by stakeholders and addressed, inter alia, the drafter of the bill with regard to possible changes in the area of video surveillance and publishing on the online network that would affect the work of the Police. In addition, the coalition MP said he supported the bill and the amendments tabled. He also identified himself as critics of opposition Members and considered them unfounded. Among other things, he mentioned the deadline for transposition of the directive, the specificity of the content of the bill and said that the proposal was prepared in accordance with the nomotechnics. During the discussion, the representatives of the proposer provided additional clarifications and replied to the question raised by the members and members of the committee. Among other things, it has been mentioned that the content of the Directive is professionally complex and extensive. They also presented the progress of the drafting process of the bill and presented in more detail the content of certain articles of the bill and mentioned that they had actively and extensively cooperated with stakeholders. Many comments were taken into account when preparing the draft law or are included in the amendments tabled. It has also been reiterated that the deadline for implementing the Directive has already expired and it is therefore important that the proposal is adopted. The Committee, by adopting its amendments and its two amendments and all the articles, has jointly drafted the text of the amended law in which amendments have been adopted and is an integral part of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u6	Thanks again for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! Directive (EU) 2016/680 and certain provisions of Directive 2016/681 shall be transposed into the Slovenian legal order by means of a proposal for a law. The Law on the Protection of Personal Data in the field of the Treatment of Crimes should already be implemented as a special law on the protection of personal data. 5. 2018, when the deadline for implementation has expired. The Personal Data Protection Act will continue to apply as a general law following the adoption of this Act. The proposed law will, however, regulate the protection of personal data in a very sensitive area of criminal law. The law primarily applies to the police, the state's attorney's office, prisons and prisons. In part, it also applies to criminal courts; but not to works relating to independent judicial decisions, i.e. investigations, trials, judicial decisions. The supervisory authority for the protection of personal data for the content referred to in this proposal remains the Information Officer. The law provides broad and diverse options for the protection of personal data, which take into account the individual’s potential to protect his or her interests directly with the Authority or through the Information Officer. It shall also be possible for the Information Officer to conduct the procedure on an official basis. It is also important that the possibility of an action before the Administrative Court is clearly foreseen and regulated. For possible illegal or improper processing of personal data, the law provides four options for the defence or exercise of rights against the competent authority. First, an individual shall contact the controller – the competent authority and require access to or modification of personal data, such as corrections. If he is unfavourable or feels unfavourable, he shall appeal to the Information Officer. The procedure shall be conducted on the basis of a classic administrative procedure with certain adjustments. Alternatively, a person who considers that his rights have been violated under the proposed law also has the possibility of making a direct request to the Information Officer under the provisions of the ZUP. Third option, the Information Officer may also conduct supervisory procedures in the public interest, according to an official duty, procedures shall be introduced on his own initiative, on the basis of the application of a natural or legal person or at the initiative of other bodies. It's a classic inspection procedure. And option four, an individual may also file a separate action before the Administrative Court concerning current or past infringements of his or her rights in the field of personal data protection. The defendant shall be the competent authority, the decision shall take place by application of the provisions of the Administrative Dispute Act relating to the procedure for violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. In the application, it is also possible to request reparation and the Information Officer may send his views to the Court. The law provides that the procedures for the exercise of rights of individuals shall be governed by the provisions of the ZUP, unless otherwise specified. This is how we welcome the regulation in New Slovenia, as it will help to improve the orderliness and translationability of the procedure. At NSI, it is particularly important that the proposal pursues at the same time the objectives of ensuring strict conditions for the protection of personal data as well as the interests of effective prosecution of crimes. Since the bill takes into account both objectives, the Members of New Slovenia will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! The Government has referred to us for consideration the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data in the area of the handling of criminal offences. It is the transposition of the European Directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data processed by the competent authorities for the purposes of preventing, investigating, detecting or prosecuting criminal offences or the enforcement of criminal sanctions. The proposal concerns the Police, the State Prosecutor's Office, the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, the Prosecution Authority and, in part, the Criminal Court. The deadline for transposition of the directive has already expired, so that this law would be supported at the outset; however, we have received a number of comments on the individual provisions of the proposal when dealing with the law. Comments were made by the Legislative and Legal Service, the Information Officer and the Administrative Court. The protection of personal data is a sensitive area. This is a right arising from the Slovenian Constitution and it is therefore important that the sectoral legislation is written clearly and unequivocally and, of course, in accordance with the Constitution and other laws. This is the only way to maintain the protection of personal data at a high level. The number of comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service is by no means negligible, even though part of these has been taken into account in the amendments, but we cannot ignore the comments of the information officer, who will, as the law provides, be the supervisory authority responsible for the protection of rights. Despite the amendments adopted, important issues she has raised remain open. As a result, such a proposal is difficult to support, as the issue of legal certainty is being raised in this way. In order to avoid the so-called legal danger, Members at the table should receive a proposal that will be more coordinated with stakeholders. This is particularly important in addressing such sensitive and complex topics as the protection of personal data in the area of criminal proceedings. We cannot support the SAB Group for the reasons set out above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The law submitted shall transpose into the Slovenian legal order the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data processed by the competent authorities for the purposes of preventing, investigating, detecting or prosecuting criminal offences or the enforcement of criminal sanctions, and on the free movement of such data. However, the deadline for transposition into national law of that substance expired two years ago. The content itself did not become a novelty of this government, as the material was already being prepared in the previous mandate and continued in the current call of the National Assembly under the auspices of the previous government. So the work is finally concluded, and in the Desus Group we are confident that it will be satisfied with all the criteria for the protection of personal data, as this is an important fundamental human right, which is also constitutionally protected. The law regulates the way in which the authorities competent in the field of the handling of criminal offences are dealt with, on the other hand, with the possibility of effectively protecting the right to the protection of personal data. The primary law therefore binds the Police, the State Prosecutors' Offices, the institutions for the cessation of the sentence and forbade them, and partly applies to the criminal justice system. Individuals concerned with personal data will have at their disposal four options to defend or exercise their rights in the field of the protection of personal data vis-à-vis the competent authority, which they consider to be illegally or improperly processing their personal data. Thus, an individual will be able to contact the controller, i.e. the competent authority, and request access to personal data or changes thereof, such as correction. In addition, an individual who considers that his rights have been violated will also have the possibility of submitting a direct request for the DPO to the Information Officer. The individual will also be available to file a separate action against the court. The supervisory authority for the protection of personal data is the Information Officer, which is the fourth option for the protection of the right of an individual, since the Information Officer will protect this right independently of the requirement for the protection of an individual, i.e. under an official obligation. In the Desus Group we assess that the bill meets the requirements of high personal data protection and therefore has full support from the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u12	Good day to all present in the Chamber, especially to the Minister! Today we are adopting the law in order to comply with the European Directive. First of all, I would like to point out that the right to data protection is an individual human right arising from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which is why it is difficult to explain to ourselves the fact that European bureaucrats are even involved in this area, since we do not see a direct link to the economy. The European Union is based primarily on a link based on economic principles, which makes it even more controversial for us to reintroduce the content of a directive that is questionable under the responsibility of the European Union. The protection of personal data should be regulated by each State on its own, as it is an individual right arising from Article 38 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Due to the exceptional development of information and communication technology, legal development has also led to a significant increase in the quantity and quality of processing of personal data. Personal data are increasingly accessible to both the State and the private. There is an ever-increasing system connection between personal data databases. This has greatly increased the risks of misuse of personal data, such as unauthorized access, mass disclosures and profiling of individuals. We believe that each individual should be able to look into all procedures where his personal data are operated, even if criminal proceedings are involved and the current restriction on access to personal data in Article 25 is too loose. At least if I loosen this claim a little bit, the individual should be aware of the processing of his data. That's not in the marriage. Access to this data is essential as it is a matter of protecting individual human rights. We believe that the Information Officer is not successful in his work, as he currently lacks the power to deal effectively with violators. In the law itself, we are disturbed by Article 13, which speaks of representation by NGOs. You're very disdainful when you force us into every regulation to include non-governmental organizations. A lawyer is a constitutional category and only a lawyer as a legal expert can offer the client adequate protection of her rights. With these NGOs, you will disintegrate the rule of law, as it is obvious that the constitutional category has collapsed. We have a lot of reservations about the law since the submitted final text did not take into account comments made by the professional public, such as the Legislative and Legal Service and the Information Officer. The fundamental argument that the law must be adopted because we are late in implementing the directive does not convince us. We also raise the problem of too many laws, as this area could only be integrated in the Personal Data Protection Act. This problem was also highlighted by the current Prime Minister of the Government. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u14	Vice President, thank you very much. Dear Minister, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The content of the draft law under consideration was already included in the single concept of the new Personal Data Protection Act, so-called PDOP-1, in the period 2017 to 2018 and in the first and second rounds of intersectoral and professional coordination in 2019. However, for reasons of transparency and ease of implementation, legal matter is now divided into two laws, from which the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data in the field of the handling of criminal offences primarily means the transposition of Directive (EU) 2016/680 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data processed by the competent authorities for the purposes of preventing, investigating, detecting or prosecuting criminal offences or the enforcement of criminal sanctions; and in part the transposition of Directive (EU) 2016/681 as regards the records of air passengers. This Directive should, however, be implemented by Slovenia in its legal order by May 2018. The law drawn up by the Government regulates the processing and protection of personal data in proceedings against the so-called repressive authorities and lays down procedures that an individual may take upon suspicion of unlawful processing. The law will thus primarily apply to the Police, the State Prosecutor's Office, the institutions for the cessation of prison sentences and the probation unit of the Administration of Probation. In part, this law will also apply to criminal courts. Here is the exemption part concerning independent judicial decision-making, i.e. the stages of investigation, trial and decision-making on legal remedies. The main solutions to the draft law on the protection of personal data in the area of the handling of criminal offences are as follows. The principles of legality, fairness and proportionality are set out differently from those set out in the ZVOP-1; the definition of an individual’s consent to the processing of his personal data is substantially changed. Definitions and processing concerning specific types of personal data have been further developed; new arrangements have been laid down with regard to other subsequent purposes for the processing of personal data. In addition to carrying out the impact assessment, operators and processors are also required to implement measures called internal traceability and external traceability of the processing of personal data. A new arrangement is laid down for persons who, within operators or processors, provide for the protection of personal data in particular for the risk and mass processing of personal data. The procedure for the exercise of the rights of individuals to whom personal data relate when the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act are applied is further regulated. The proposal for a law on the protection of personal data in the field of the handling of criminal offences in the context of the possibility of defending an individual should in particular highlight the following. The data subject shall be provided with four options for the defence or exercise of his rights. Under point 1, an individual shall make a request to the controller. Under point 2, a person who considers that his rights have been violated may submit a direct request to the Information Officer under the Administrative Procedure Act. Under point 3, the Information Officer may, on his own initiative, conduct control procedures on the basis of the application of a natural or legal person or at the initiative of other authorities, even under official responsibility, a classical inspection procedure under the Inspection Control Act. And under point 4, an individual may bring an action before the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the processing of personal data. True, the legal text is difficult, but on the other hand it is prepared professionally, as the Minister has pointed out. It also took account of most of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will, of course, support the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data in the area of the handling of criminal offences. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc will be presented by Tina Heferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u16	Thank you, Vice President. Nice hello to you all! The rule of law reflects, among other things, respect for European legislation. In fact, the transposition and implementation of European directives is due to the fact that we have transferred part of our sovereignty to the European Union and adopted its legal order. If we are to maintain the rule of law in our society, we must consistently respect all the democratic standards defined by the Slovenian Constitution, while also respecting Article 3a of the Slovenian Constitution, which refers to legal acts adopted within the framework of international organisations that are used directly or indirectly in our legal order. As it is said, today's amendment to the law is only supposed to be of an implementing nature, as we are transposing a European directive into Slovenian legislation; but it is also stuck in this government's relatively simple procedure. The Ministry of Justice received a number of comments and warnings on the appropriateness or, if you would like, on the competence of implementing this Directive. Comments on the main pages were made by the information officer, comments were made by the Advocate of the principle of equality, and the Administrative Court noted that the concept of the administrative dispute had been broken, and the Legislative and Legal Service commented on more than 55 articles, with the whole amendment having a total of 84 articles. It is not irrelevant that the coalition has not fully taken account of these comments and warnings in its amendments. I would like to say that, in the LMŠ Group, we wish that, at least for such legal materials, where it is intended to be only and only for the transposition of the European directive, it would not be preferable to the political and ideological origins of the profession. It saddens us that this government does not once again respect the profession, such as the Administrative Court or the Legal and Legal Service, but is leading one of its own agendas. And it is also obvious that this is part of her understanding of the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The protection of personal data is one of the fundamental human rights; it is part of the right to privacy, which is protected at both international level, such as the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, as well as at the national, usually constitutional level of each country. Especially in modern times, when information, social networking and other technologies dictate our daily and our future, personal data are more sensitive to each individual. Personal data must be processed fairly, for specific purposes and on the basis of law. However, compliance with these rules is supervised by an independent body. The directive we are transposing today with this bill should have been transposed two years ago. This is one of the two legal acts of the European Union, as part of the so-called package of personal data protection reform, and we are still looking forward to the transfer of the second part, namely the adoption of a new law on the protection of personal data, which I hope will be received as soon as possible in the National Assembly. The content of the law governs the processing and protection of personal data in the criminal field. This is how the law will be used by the police, the state prosecutors, the prison authorities and the Administration of Procrastination. The proposal also lays down procedures which are made available to an individual for the defence or exercise of his or her rights in the field of the protection of personal data to a competent authority which he or she considers to be processing his or her personal data. The Information Officer will supervise the provisions of the law. And it was the information officer who made quite a few comments to the draft law, which unfortunately were not fully taken into account by the coalition parties. It points out that even a few articles of the directive remain which are not transposed by this proposal at all. Uncoordinated and over-inhibited thus also remains the concept of anonymisation, thus actually narrowing down the concept of personal data, which will prevent certain data from receiving adequate protection at all. The definition of criminal matters and related concepts relating to the restriction of the supervisory powers of the Information Officer remains unclear. The Administrative Court also draws attention to certain ambiguities in the draft law. The co-existence of the administrative proceedings and the administrative dispute may mean that uncertainty will be brought to the legal order and the exercise of individual rights. The Administrative Court recalls the non-compliance with the Personal Data Protection Act, which in practice may present problems leading to different interpretations of the legislation. The Legislative and Legal Service has also raised the issue of the provisions relating to the application procedure on the competent Justice Committee. However, it also challenged the application of certain specific provisions of this proposal, which are premature for some database operators, since they will have to deal with the new Personal Data Protection Act. However, their assessment could also undermine the stability of regulation of legal relations. We are aware that this is an extremely difficult and complex subject, but we believe that too many provisions remain in the proposal, which are unclear and inconsistent with the information officer. One of the principles of the rule of law requires, inter alia, that the rules be clear and specific, so that the content and purpose of the rule can undoubtedly be established. In particular, human rights rules must be drawn up with the highest quality and effectiveness of protection. The effective protection of personal data is also ensured through uniform rules at European Union level and it is essential that national legislation ensures an equal level of protection of personal data; therefore, we must not agree to lower standards. It is about protecting the integrity of the human person and his right to privacy and family life. For this reason, the Social Democrats cannot support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Vice-President of the National Assembly. Minister, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! Today, at a meeting of the National Assembly, we are discussing the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data in the field of the handling of criminal offences, which was transmitted by the Government for adoption, which regulates the processing and protection of personal data in proceedings against judicial authorities and law enforcement authorities, and lays down procedures that may be initiated by an individual who suspects that those bodies are processing his personal data unlawfully. The law applies to the Police, the State Prosecutor's Office, the Department of Prisons, and the Enforcement Authority. In part, it also applies to the criminal court, which, in order to protect their independence, is excluded in the work relating to judicial decision-making. Otherwise, the proposal for a law constitutes an adaptation of European Union law and the Directive should be introduced by the Republic of Slovenia in its legal order by May 2018. The protection of personal data is one of the human rights and personal freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution in most countries. The human right to protection of personal data is also based on Article 38 of the 1991 Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In Slovenia, in addition to the Constitution, the protection of personal data is also governed by a special personal data protection law with code 1 (PDO-1), which sets out in more detail the rights, principles and measures to prevent unlawful and unjustifiable interference in the privacy of an individual who could arise as a result of the use and processing of personal data. The first Personal Data Protection Act was passed in the Republic of Slovenia in 1990, the second in 1999, the third in 2004. Since 2004, the development of information and communication technology has resulted in significantly increased processing of personal data and the risk of abuse, such as unauthorized access, mass disclosures, profiling of individuals, use in business models without the consent of individuals and so on. In response to these new trends, a package of personal data protection reform was adopted at European Union level in 2016. Member States undertake to adopt appropriate legislation, in particular to set up national data protection authorities, lay down penalties and so on. One of the concerns related to the last proposal of the Data Protection Act was published in August 2019 in order to consolidate both areas in one law. The proposal for a Data Protection Act 2 therefore included, in addition to the areas of the Regulation of the European Union, a Directive on the protection of personal data in the field of police and criminal justice. Now, instead of one, we get two completely separate laws. The criticism of the short debate and the delays are therefore not true, as within a little more than six months the Ministry of Justice was able to draw up a proposal to adopt at least one part of the Personal Data Protection Act. The information officer also provided an additional opinion on the draft law, highlighting in particular his comments on the protection of the identity of so-called protected persons, i.e. secret workers, police officers assigned a modified identity, protected witnesses and police informants. For this purpose, witnesses and police informants shall be protected and the views of the Information Officer shall be limited to documents incorporating their personal data. The supervision may only be carried out if a person with a protected identity submits an application for the processing of his personal data. Since it is a matter of protecting the lives of the persons mentioned, of course, of efficiency and of course of prosecution or of preventing disclosure of information on specific police actions, these exceptions are justified for the SMC. For all these reasons, the SMC will support the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague, respectable! The Law on the Protection of Personal Data in the Area of the Treatment of Crimes, which we have before us today, should be adopted before the 2018 elections. The law has been preparing for too long. Directive (EU) 2016/680 provides that Member States are to implement it by 6 May 2018. Today we are 19 November 2020. As has been the case many times, we are in breach of the provisions of the Directives concerning the transposition of provisions into our legislation. This is particularly unacceptable in areas of regulation that are changing rapidly because of rapid technological progress. And I ask whether the Ministry will take any measures to ensure that such delays will no longer occur in the future. What has the Ministry of Justice been doing all this time that these things have not been realized? In doing so, we ask what is happening with the amendment to the Personal Data Protection Act, which will be in line with Regulation (EU) 2016/679 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. Indeed, we would expect that, at the same time as the law that we are considering today, this law will also be in the process. It is clear from the bill that there will be a need to harmonise several other laws. Only then will we see how protected the personal data of the persons found in the forecasting and criminal proceedings are actually protected. The leakage of such personal data may have a number of harmful consequences. And such data can never escape by accident, but can always be misused, for example, for the desecration of persons who are not yet and may not be found guilty of the crime or for blackmailing those same persons. At the same time, it may harm the criminal procedure itself. And since we do not live in an orderly country, we can rightly fear such abuses. And practice has shown whether the law before us today will adequately insure such sensitive personal data. On the other hand, we look forward to a change of laws that will follow in connection with the amendment of this law. The experience with this government is such that changes to the democratic standards of the rules in the Republic of Slovenia are always added to the urgent changes in legislation. They reduce the autonomy and independence of individual institutions. Therefore, we will continue to pay close attention to all these changes and do our utmost to prevent the adoption of harmful legislation. In view of the importance of the comments made by the stakeholders, as well as of the professions that have not been taken into account, it has already been noted by the predecessors and predecessors that the comments of the Administrative Court, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Information Commissioner and the Advocate of the principle of equality have not been sufficiently taken into account, nor will we support the failure of this law in the Law of the Left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will be held tomorrow, 20 November 2020, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal for an agreement on the programme of work and the financial plan of the Energy Agency for the summer of 2021. On the basis of Article 399(5) of the Energy Act, the Energy Agency submitted to the Council the work programme and the financial plan of the Energy Agency for 2021. In order to further explain the Work Programme and the Financial Plan, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, the Director of the Agency for Energy Mag. Bugs of the Year. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u24	Thank you for your word and welcome. At the highest political level, as a country, we have committed ourselves to moving to a climate neutral society in Slovenia in a few decades. The energy sector plays a crucial role in this process. A well-functioning energy market is a key element of sustainable economic development and the Energy Agency plays an important role in this. As part of our tasks and responsibilities, we encourage the establishment of a single market for energy, cost-effective investment in electricity and natural gas transmission and distribution infrastructure. By continuously monitoring the market, we ensure competitiveness, identify possible obstacles to the smooth functioning of the market and prevent market abuse, promote electricity production from renewable sources and thus ensure reliable, quality and sustainable energy supply, which is also affordable. In 2021, we set a business framework for companies carrying out electricity and natural gas transmission and distribution activities over the next three to five years. We are looking forward to a detailed examination of business operations, identifying the effects of regulation and establishing the cost framework for regulated companies and consequently the amount of network costs paid by consumers – households and industry – in the framework of the final electricity and natural gas supply price. In view of the situation in which we are in the wake of the global epidemic, this task will be even more difficult and more responsible, since, as a result of the closure of countries, the cessation of the economy and the change in life-style, we are already seeing a significant decline in electricity consumption and thus the income for companies that are making sure that energy supply is smooth, reliable and quality. In the following year, we will also have to update the methodology for the calculation of the network, which should adequately support market development, the transition to clean energy and take into account new roles and users in the system; in particular scattered energy sources and active waste. At the same time, one of the highlights of next year is the promotion of production from renewable sources. We will re-publish two public calls and hope that the implementation will be more successful than in the last three or four public calls when more than 80% of the funds remain unallocated. In 2021, we will also carry out all other tasks in the areas of continuous monitoring of the energy market, ensuring the competitiveness of the energy market, preventing market abuse, protecting the rights of customers, ensuring the legality of the implementation of the activity, implementing the support scheme, providing heat, achieving mandatory energy savings and also fulfilling mandatory regular energy checks in large companies. We plan to carry out the assigned tasks with the same number of employees, and we do not foresee any additional employment in the 2021 Human Resources Plan. The substitutions of electricity and natural gas transmission operators, which are the main source of funding for the Agency's operation for 2021, remain the same as in 2020, according to the unit of electricity and natural gas consumed. I therefore propose to the National Assembly that the Programme of Work and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency for 2021 be approved. The work programme came at a time when all the circumstances were not yet known, so allow me to take the initiative at the same time to reflect on and reject the law governing the merger of mutually incompatible agencies; or at least to remove the energy sector from this proposal from the law and to continue to ensure that Slovenia will be among the leading countries in the European Union in view of the indicators of the independence of the energy regulator, which also plays a leading role in promoting investment in research, development and new approaches in the management, planning and development of networks in the process of transition to clean energy and which, through its approaches, provides a high impact on the market, businesses and consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The Programme of Work and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as its parent, which proposes to the National Assembly that it adopt a proposal for a decision on the agreement to the Programme of Work and the Agency's financial plan for 2021. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Michael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At its 22nd meeting, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space discussed the Energy Agency's Work Programme and Financial Plan for 2021, which was forwarded to the National Assembly by the Energy Agency. In the introductory explanation, the director of the agency mag. The Year stressed that the energy policy objectives are clear and defined in the national energy and climate plan. The Agency’s work programme, in addition to the objectives related to the transition to a climate neutral society, also provides an assessment of the necessary investments in electricity transmission and distribution networks. This, however, is closely linked to the Agency's basic task of regulating businesses operating an economic public service in the field of electricity and natural gas supply. It is in 2021 that the Agency will once again lay the foundations of a new regulatory framework covering operating rules and a cost framework for operators on the basis of which the network paid by users of electricity and natural gas transmission and distribution systems is established. In 2021, the business framework for regulated enterprises will thus be established for the next 3 to 5 years. In addition, one of the highlights is the promotion of renewable energy production and the publication of two public calls for investors to apply for co-financing of projects is envisaged for next year. In 2021, the Agency will also be responsible and effective in carrying out other tasks for which it is responsible under the Energy Act. It also pointed out that the Agency is planning to carry out its tasks with the same number of employees, and therefore, in the 2021 Staff Plan, the main source of revenue to the energy regulator is the compensation of transmission system operators, which remain the same as in 2020, for 2021. In a short discussion, a merger of eight agencies or regulators, including the Energy Agency, was announced by some opposition Members in two major agencies. It was pointed out that no positive effects could be identified from the proposed legislative proposal to legislate this merger, which was also pointed out by the agencies that are the subject of this merger. In their view, the proposal for merger constitutes, in particular, an intervention in the independence of existing agencies and has therefore called for prudence in the continuation of the merger process and taking into account the warnings and opinions of the professional public. In this regard, the Director of the Agency stressed that, in principle, all agencies object to the proposal for a merger, mainly because such a decision interferes with their independence, which is crucially highlighted or highlighted in the sectoral European directives. It pointed out that the government proposal on the basis of these criticisms had been corrected in terms of the competence of appointing the authorities of the new agencies, but remained an unanswered question of what the positive effects of the envisaged merger were. It stressed that the specific Energy Agency works effectively and qualitatively and is also recognised as such at the European level. Consequently, it does not see the reasons for its association with other agencies, so if it persists in the merger proposal, it called for a prudent and appropriate preliminary analysis of the process. Following the discussion, the 16-vote committee adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly to adopt a Decision on consent to the Programme of Work and to the 2021 Financial Plan of the Energy Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure Blaž Kosorok, for the opening presentation of the opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u28	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! The Energy Agency forwarded its work programme and its financial plan for 2020-2021 to the National Assembly. The Energy Act provides in Article 384 that the Agency shall be independent and independent in the performance of its tasks and responsibilities. This means that the Director of the Agency, the staff of the Agency and the members of the Board of the Agency shall not, in their work, be bound to the conclusions, views, guidance or guidance of the State authorities, local authorities or other bodies, legal persons or other individuals, nor shall they require them. The Agency shall, therefore, decide independently by its internal organisation and by means of the systemisation of jobs, decide on the necessary number of employees and financial resources for the effective performance of its tasks and responsibilities as defined in its Work Programme and the Financial Plan. Therefore, the Government has not considered the Work Programme and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency. In its work, the Agency must pursue the following objectives: to promote a competitive, reliable and environmentally sustainable electricity and natural gas market and to effectively open the market for all customers and suppliers; to develop competitive and well-functioning regional electricity and natural gas markets; to remove restrictions on electricity and natural gas trade; to promote, cost-effectively, the development of safe, reliable, efficient, non-discriminatory systems aimed at consumers promoting sufficient capacity of the system; and to facilitate the integration into the network of new production capacities, in particular by removing barriers that could prevent new entrants from entering the electricity and gas market from renewable energy sources. It must provide benefits to electricity and natural gas consumers through effective functioning of the market, promoting effective competition and helping to ensure consumer protection. It must provide assistance in achieving high service standards for electricity and natural gas customers and in protecting vulnerable customers and in complying with the necessary data exchange procedures for all consumers. In the following year, the Agency should focus on the tasks imposed on Member States and their regulators by European legislation, with Clean Energy for All Europeans as the most up-to-date package of legislation, measuring in particular the effective use of energy in the field of renewable energy sources and the development of the common electricity market. We set our national targets, as you know, in this area, by 2030 in Slovenia, we set ourselves with the Comprehensive National Energy Climate Plan adopted by the Government in February this year. At the strategic level, the preparation of a long-term climate strategy to reduce emissions by 2050 also sets out scenarios for the transition of Slovenia to a climate neutral society for this period, which is the basis for setting energy market regulation measures. Therefore, it is important for the Energy Agency to have the tasks and objectives of regulating the energy market so that the transition to a climate neutral society is possible while maintaining reliable energy supply with as little impact on the competitiveness of the economy as possible and on the welfare of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Ambassadors, Alenka Bratušek, in her name Mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u30	Nice greeting, Comrade Chairman. Fellow Members, fellow Members, distinguished Secretary of State, Mrs. Godina! The Energy Agency is an important body in the field of regulation of companies operating an economic public service in the field of electricity and natural gas supply. The Agency shall establish a competitive situation taking into account the requirements for reliable and quality supply and shall also be responsible for the supervision and regulation of the energy market. In 2021, the Agency will once again lay the foundations for a new regulatory framework, update the methodology for netting, and one of the highlights will be the promotion of renewable energy production. In the SAB party, we believe that we need to continue investing in renewable energy sources. This is the only way to ensure long-term access to clean and cheap electricity, which is ultimately important for economic growth as well. Digitalisation and sector information, in relation to carbon, will play an important role in energy transition. Almost €40 billion worth of investment potential in the coming decades will remain untapped if we do not start actively developing new activities and services as a society. In this light, we especially point out that most of the measured cities in households and economies are already equipped with smart meters to monitor electricity consumption, but our companies are virtually not offering services that would also exploit the benefits of these smart counters. If domestic companies do not start to develop and offer these services, foreign competition will start. At the same time, we stress the importance of efficient energy use. Slovenia has an energy-intensive, waste economy and industry. At the same time, the European Union has already announced that it will introduce a specific environmental duty for the financing of the European budget in the near future, which could endanger the business of a number of companies – including thermoelectric plants, coal mines, iron mines, Talum and a number of other companies – which may be affected. The transformation of this industry therefore represents a number of new development opportunities, and all civil society must participate constructively, in particular in providing new carbon-free production resources. We must also be aware in this light that, as a society, we will have to start replacing 60 % over the next 20 years, i.e. two thirds, all production resources and also to leave fossil fuels in transport. In order to achieve the objectives of environmental safety, self-sufficiency, independence and environmental acceptability, we will, as a company, have to ensure production from clean energy sources. In this light, however, we cannot pass the attempts of the government coalition to bring eight regulatory agencies together into two superagencies. This is clearly an attempt to take political ownership of independent institutions and a step towards the creation of a new, autonomous control system at all levels. Such mergers of public agencies cannot detect any positive effects, but this will significantly reduce their independence. In the SAB Group, we will support the proposal for a decision on agreement to the Work Programme and the Agency's 2021 Financial Plan. We want and will continue to strive that the Energy Agency will remain an independent and independent institution based in Maribor. It is not to be forgotten that it is the seat of the former company, which was called the seat of the power economy of Slovenia, so it is particularly important that this agency remains in Maribor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u32	Once again a nice greeting to all present in the Chamber, in particular to the representative of the Government and the lady of the Agency. The Agency's work programme and financial plan for next year is bad because it is set very wide; and the drying tables tell us nothing substantively concrete. In the Slovenian National Party, we have a feeling of doubt as to how many priorities that are decisive, set targets, performance indicators, deadlines set, will actually be achieved in practice at the end of 2021. The problem is the epidemic in which we are all involved; and the agency, according to the director of mags. The Dusks of the Year in 2021 await the most demanding tasks. From today to tomorrow, we don't know what else is waiting for us. Is it gonna be better, maybe worse? As a result, a number of matters can be closed down or skipped if they are not so important. A climate strategy with a vision that the Republic of Slovenia will be climate neutral and climate change resistant in 30 years. It follows from the Comprehensive National Energy and Climate Plan that the assessment of the projected costs of investments in distribution networks over the next 10 years is extremely high, which may have a strong impact on the network or on the costs paid by customers for the use of networks. This will certainly strike a particular customer in the pocket. It is commendable, however, that within two days the government agency managed to lower the network, where the account had lower costs for customers and households in the spring of covida-19. A new regulatory framework for electricity companies will also be drawn up next year to provide sufficient funds for the smooth and cost-effective implementation of activities. In the area of promoting the production of electricity from renewable sources and co-production, two public calls will be made for the entry of production facilities into the support scheme under a competitive procedure. We ask you what is the reason for such a small investor response or that there was no real interest in the last three calls, where about 80% remained unallocated; and when will the plan for the operation of the support scheme be put in place. Human resources are a very important factor, even in these difficult times, when covida-19 makes it impossible to work smoothly, even in the field. It may be wise to provide for additional employment in the following year in order to avoid the burnout of employees. In today’s digital age, there is much talk about smart communities, cities, and energy storage. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that it is necessary to invest in smart networks, even though investment is expensive, but it is paid in the long run and the existing infrastructure is better used. We are pleased that in the area of new network development, all necessary tasks will be carried out to implement the expansion capacity for the expected new pipeline between Slovenia and Hungary. The Agency must also ensure, under the regulation, that all necessary measures are taken to ensure continuous gas supply, in particular to protected customers, in the event of severe weather conditions or gas supply disruptions. They also do not want such a singing association of public agencies because they believe that the independence of the agencies must be ensured. The question that arises to them is, what are the concrete effects of this merger? Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Franc Rosec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! The Agency’s 2021 work programme and financial plan cover the Agency’s tasks in the following areas: the regulation of network activities in the field of electricity. In addition to the tasks already in place, the most important tasks in the field of the operation of the transmission and distribution network will be to issue agreement on the system operating instructions of closed distribution system operators and to adopt amendments and to supplement the current system operating instructions, in particular the system operator. Assignments in the field of natural gas for regulated network activities. In addition to the implementation of existing tasks, a new gas legislative package is expected to follow the objectives of climate neutrality to date and will require new solutions in the field of natural gas and other gases. In the area of heat, the Agency will continue its monitoring and analysis activities in 2021 for the regulation and monitoring of the correctness of the revised price baselines. In the field of renewables and efficient energy use, the extension of the support scheme for the production of electricity from renewable sources and the cogeneration of heat and electricity is expected. By the end of 2025, two new public calls are planned for investors to register OVE and SPTE production equipment projects for entry into the support scheme with a total value of at least EUR 20 million. In the field of surveillance, the Agency will provide comprehensive monitoring of the energy markets concerned in 2021 in terms of ensuring the conditions for the functioning of the market and services of the public sector, market structure, market effects and customer satisfaction. In addition to all these tasks, the Agency shall carry out more important international activities, including publication of guidelines, views or recommendations, monitoring and reporting at national and European Union level, assessing the appropriateness of the cost assessment and the effectiveness of the procedures and the appropriateness of ordering products and services for transmission and distribution operators. The Agency’s financial plan for 2021:the Agency plans a total of around EUR 4 million, which is most expected to be around 2 million 700, from the compensation of Eles, little less than a million 300 from the compensation of Plinovo and other revenues. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the Agency's 2021 Work Programme and Financial Plan.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u36	Thank you, Vice President. Government representatives, respectable principal, colleagues, colleagues! The Energy Agency shall present each year an annual report and a work programme and a financial plan for the coming year to the competent national working body of the National Assembly. In addition to being an important regulator on the electricity market, the Agency has many tasks and powers that can be divided into several sets. The key task is to regulate and control the correctness of the operator’s network charging in the supply of electricity. In this way, the Agency shall ensure that the network is not charged over the eligible costs; in the event that this task is not performed, the end user could pay a higher price than he is paying now. Its tasks include monitoring and verification of operators, which means ensuring that operators invest sufficiently in the capacity of distribution networks and consequently allow for the quality and safety of electricity and natural gas distribution to end-users. On the basis of the contributions received and the debate in the Group of Social Democrats, we assess the report, the financial plans, the work programme as very exemplary and qualitatively prepared. We believe that the key task or role of the Agency is to resolve disputes between users and operators, as the Agency can offer protection to the user, who is the most vulnerable party in the process. The Agency must play a key role in protecting final consumers, as it will only be able to protect the final consumer or to ensure that the highest quality and delivery energy will be obtained for the payment. The monitoring, warning and resolution of the problems facing the most vulnerable individuals of our society is the daily journal of the Social Democrats and we will not accept or allow energy poverty to increase. On the contrary, we need to reduce it, because everyone in our society has the right to access an energy that enables him to live a decent and quality life. The tasks and responsibilities of the Agency referred to above are still of great importance, and above all it is important that it is able to carry out them in a qualitative and effective manner. The Social Democrats' Group will support the 2021 Decision on Consent to the Work Programme and the Agency's 2021 Financial Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In accordance with the Energy Act, the Council of the Energy Agency shall adopt, by 30 September of the current year, a work programme and a financial plan of the Agency for the following year, and shall agree on this work programme and the Agency's financial plan. The Energy Agency, as the regulatory authority, monitors, directs and supervises energy operators in the field of electricity and natural gas and carries out statutory tasks to regulate energy operators in the field of heat and other energy gases, taking into account, of course, the energy policy objectives. Following the consideration of the Work Programme and the Financial Plan at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, it was explained that the Agency would also closely monitor the operations of regulated companies in 2021 and, with its views and decisions, ensure that this operation is legally and cost-effectively. The key emphasis on the functioning of the Agency and its tasks in 2021 will be linked to the objectives relating to the transition to a climate neutral society, in line with international commitments also reflected through the National Energy and Climate Plan. In 2021, the Agency will pay particular attention to laying the foundations of the new regulatory framework, including an update of the methodology for netting. In all this, however, the aim is to ensure quality and reliable energy supply at a reasonable price, which is also sustainable. As the Director of the Agency has pointed out, this task will be even more difficult and responsible in the light of the emergency situation worldwide. Under the Energy Act, the Agency has the status of an independent regulatory energy agency. On this basis, when considering the Work Programme and the Financial Plan for 2021, the Committee heard criticism of the law providing for the association of agencies. In the SMC, we agree to draw attention to the possible negative consequences of the new legislation, but it should also be borne in mind that all parties – at least at the declaration level – advocate greater efficiency in the functioning of all authorities and institutions. In this regard, in the SMC, we stress that we will continue to pay attention to the compliance of European and international instruments with the legislative process and that this bill will not undermine the independence and independence of individual regulatory institutions. In the SMC Group, we believe that the Agency's 2021 Work Programme and Financial Plan have been set up ambitiously and that the Agency is carefully planning financial resources to carry out its tasks. This is why we will also support the proposal for a decision on agreement to the Work Programme and the Agency's 2021 financial plan. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Mihael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u40	Thank you again for your words, Mr Vice President. Good afternoon, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The Agency’s work programme and financial plan represent the Agency’s key tasks for 2021. The objectives of Slovenian energy policy are defined in the Comprehensive National Energy and Climate Plan, which Slovenia has also forwarded to the European Commission. The Agency’s work programme sets out, in addition to the objectives related to the transition to a climate neutral society, an assessment of the necessary investments in electricity transmission and distribution networks, which is certainly linked to the Agency’s basic task of regulating, in an economic sense, undertakings operating an economic public service in the field of electricity and natural gas supply. The Agency for Energy in the Work Programme for 2021 also lays down the basis for establishing a regulatory framework for transmission operators and the distribution of electricity and natural gas after 2021. It is a matter of laying down rules for the operation and setting of eligible costs as well as determining the network to operators. The Agency will also update the methodology for the calculation of the network, which must support the development of the market and the rapid transition to clean energy. In New Slovenia, we are particularly pleased that the Agency's activities in 2021 will focus on promoting the production of electricity from renewable energy sources and co-generation of heat and energy. The publication of two public calls for investors to report projects of renewable energy production facilities for entry into the support scheme is also envisaged. The Agency hopes that these calls will be more successful than the previous three public calls. Of course, the Agency will continue its efforts to prevent market abuse, carry out tasks in the areas of energy market monitoring, consumer rights protection and the implementation of the support scheme. However, from the Agency's financial plan, we can understand that the Agency is not a user of budgetary resources, as it is mainly financed by the annual compensation of the system operator of electricity and the operator of the natural gas transmission system. Members of New Slovenia will certainly give their consent to the Work Programme and the Agency's financial plan for 2021, as it follows our core energy programme. We must strive to explore and develop climate-friendly technologies. In addition to solar and wind energy, the opportunities for Slovenia in Nova Slovenija are seen mainly in the better use of water energy and the use of wood biomass. We are also open to new technologies based on renewable energy sources. When reducing greenhouse gases, it is necessary to focus on three things: energy saving, the use of renewable energy sources and the climate of less harmful and harmless energy mixes. In New Slovenia, we certainly advocate the view that the construction of new energy facilities should be based exclusively on renewable sources and that measures to reduce energy consumption should be actively implemented, particularly from non-renewable sources. We will follow the objective of sufficient self-sustainment at the expense of renewable energy sources. We will encourage the necessary private investment in small production capacities of electricity and a friendly business environment for investors in green, sustainable investments such as windmills, small hydroelectric plants and so on. However, the country must, by means of tax incentives, promote a public-private partnership in the field of investment in the construction of energy facilities for the use of renewable energy sources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Now I just have to interrupt the session for a moment to clear up some of the announcements; now it has become clear that there will be no problems. Let's get a five-minute break. The LMŠ Group does not have the announced time schedule, but it does have the requested time for discussion; and I would like to first clarify whether there is an error in the application or in the scenario. Good. We can proceed. They say there's a script error, that's what they're saying. Before I give my word after the final presentations on the positions of the parliamentary groups, I will read which Members have remained nominated for the debate: Rudy Medved, mag. Andrej Reich, Jani Möderndorfer, Jože Lenart, Vojko Starović and Victory Jelinčič Nobleni. First he gets the word, Member Rudy Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We're talking about the Energy Agency. The Energy Agency is a regulator, we have repeatedly stressed this today. I think it should be further emphasized that the Energy Agency is an independent body. Underlining – independent body. I think it is also important to note that the Energy Agency is not a budgetary consumer and that it regulates the electricity and gas market, that is to say, it cares about reliable, quality supply at a reasonable price. Thus, the agency is not one of the realities or a bureaucratic apparatus has been cut off from everyday life. The activities of the Agency concern all of us. People probably don't know that enough. When we talk about these agencies, they usually imagine that these are some bureaucratic machines that deal more or less with themselves; but when we look closer, we see how the activities of the Energy Agency actually affect our everyday life. It's up to her what kind of network, what kind of power grid we're gonna pay for. Well, that's what we pay all electricity consumers or gas consumers. The role of the Agency is also to promote production from renewable energy sources, which is, of course, also the focus of the whole world, not just Slovenia. We can safely say that the agency is at work for all of us. And now we ask ourselves, what does policy have in this mission of the Agency? Nothing or should have nothing. The framework for the operation of the Agency is clear, we have no problems with electricity or gas supply, at least we do not see the citizens. For example, the Agency has proven itself just in the wake of the crisis – I believe that it is difficult to move all the electrical equipment in order to lower the network in two days, such as some help and burden of citizens during the crisis. Moreover, 2021 is an important year for the Agency, including the two tenders announced for the granting of state aid of EUR 20 million. We are here talking about the Agency's financial plan and work programme, and at the same time we can ask ourselves whether this Agency's plan can be implemented in the coming year at all. Why do we ask ourselves that? Because of the famous idea of pooling regulators. And when we mention this merger of regulators, this is a really interesting situation, none of those in the herbs whose idea has grown can say why; except for the floscule – efficiency. What was not effective and what would be more effective if we pushed the regulatory agencies into two baskets? In this basket, where the Energy Agency is supposed to be located, Akos, the Agency for Transport Safety, the Agency for Civil Aviation, if I am not mistaken, and the Agency for Rail Transport, the Agency for Competition Protection, consumer protection, is truly complementary, very complementary, synergistic. In this joint agency, it is likely that experts from individual agencies will manage all areas, so that, of course, they can cooperate complementaryly and synergisticly, from one to the other. That's how I imagine efficiency, or I don't know it. However, it is interesting that the Ministry of Economy, at a meeting of the National Assembly at which we have challenged the contested staffing of this Government, has sent a State Secretary to this meeting, who has initiated the question of the merger of regulatory agencies without our encouraging it. However, they felt the duty to advocate in advance what we claim to be the basic motive for this merger of agencies after the recruitment. The appetites of this government are even greater. This is the only way we can explain this idea, which, interestingly, has never been on the table in the government of Mir Cerar, has not been on the table in the government of Marjan Šarc; but the same economic minister, who is now in the midst of the worst crisis, has found time to work together agencies, which, of course, has been said, even in contravention of European law. The energy law itself is clear, if I return to the Energy Agency, it is perfectly clear, the Agency is an independent regulator, not bound to any guidance, not least of course policy. Even in the agency's own human resources policy, politics as such has nothing to do with it, because it is simply a professional matter. But the Ministry of Economic Affairs, with the support of this government, is going to be quiet and quiet; it is likely that in the end it will come to the National Assembly and the coalition will, like most of it, or anything that this government brings to this national assembly, also blindly support. At least so far, that's been the experience. We will always, as we are, ask above all about the usefulness of such conduct in the future. What is the question of law when we are talking about the fact that the submission of the Energy Agency is clearly contrary to European law? It is ironic, however, that we have the seat of the European Agency for the Cooperation of Independent Energy Regulators in Ljubljana. Here we have the only European Union agency for the cooperation of independent regulators, in Slovenia, the only one on our soil. And at the threshold of this agency, which brings together independent regulators, we will subordinate the Energy Agency policy. You understand that if you can. But given the understanding or attitude towards the rule of law of both the Prime Minister and his followers [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Time's up. It's got magic in it. Andrei Reich. And he'll be the last to discuss Vojka Starović. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I will also touch on the government's intentions after the merger of independent agencies. Two independent agencies – the Railway Agency and the Energy Agency – are currently established in Maribor. The Energy Agency performs a function that was once established by the Elektro-Economy of Slovenia, i.e. a company that was better known as the EEC. We Mariborians are very sensitive in this sense when they try to centralise the last things left in Maribor; therefore, we strongly oppose this in the party SAB and other colleagues in the opposition. I would like this agency to be strengthened, further strengthened, so that its quality and excellent work will also be recognised by the State; and that, instead of centralising and essentially shifting its independence, it will support its development and independence. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović also gets the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. When we talk about the agency, I will repeat what the predecessors have already said before me, in fact it is independence, professionalism and autonomy; and we must defend it. So far, there has been a positive opinion on the Agency, as I know, and we support this programme for the future. And there's only one thing I'd like to warn you about, and I'd like to ask the guest present how it is. I don't know much because I'm from Celje, Šostjanje, etcetera. How many of us have jumped into the air because of this Šostanja, which gives us when it is a little drought, as well as 60% of electricity in Slovenia. We'd be breathing on gills if it wasn't for this facility or doing an old facility, because without it we can't and it would be much more impure than it is. But there's actually a problem here, the question is, did we actually pay when we imported electricity, even 15 times the price? This market can be very funny. When it's running low, you'll have a hard time getting electricity and we have to worry about it in Slovenia, plan a nuclear power plant too, I'm in favour of, because now this is also the case, planning our independence to become self-sustaining and independent. If you're addicted, you're addicted, then we can't talk about independence, we can't talk about the liberation of Slovenia or anything, we can't talk about becoming addicted. I therefore support that the Agency remains independent and that we also go to independence of electricity supply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the proposer, Director of the Agency for Energy mag, will be given the floor. Honey year. You want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u48	Thank you for saying that again. And in view of all that has been said today, I thank everyone for their agreement on the Energy Agency's work programme next year. This puts in us an additional responsibility each year to do our work even more effectively; and it will be the same in 2021, as already mentioned – a very responsible year and a challenging year for us in the light of the circumstances. Therefore, as I have already said, I am taking the initiative once again, and I think that there has been a great deal of this today, as well as support in this direction, for the Energy Agency to be maintained as an independent and fully independent body in order to prevent the Energy Agency from being merged with other regulators. Only in this way will we be able to ensure the effective implementation of the work programme, tasks and competences that we have set ourselves not only for the following year but also for future years. In my opening speech, I mentioned that the work programme came about at a time when all the circumstances were not yet known and have a significant impact on our work. The integration of the Agency with others after the content of incompatible agencies can certainly lead to, at least in the work, failures to fulfil the work programme that has been set up or to lower inefficiencies, as the merger process will require certain human resources and the time that we will have to devote to consolidation or adequate integration of the content- incompatible institutions. Finally, I would only ask a question that has been asked several times today to seriously ask, at least in the case of energy, as today it was clear what our role was; how, in the case of further development, the transition to a climate neutral society, decisions on what the operators should do, what to invest in the future, what to direct regulated companies, how to achieve synergies, for example, with civil aviation experts, road safety, rail transport and so on. If we ask ourselves this question, it will be a clear answer that greater efficiency by combining areas of content that are incompatible cannot be achieved. I am therefore taking the initiative once again to prevent, at least with regard to the energy regulator, the adoption of a law that will certainly be under consideration in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u49	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. There is no interest, so I am concluding the debate on the proposal for a decision. On the proposal for a decision on the agreement to the Programme of Work and the financial plan of the Energy Agency for 2021, we will decide on Friday 20, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 11th, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, that is, on a second level, a proposal for a law amending the law on patients' rights; within the framework of a final procedure. The draft law was submitted to the Council of State for consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi Council of the State. Peter Poznań. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! The overcrowding of healthcare professionals at the primary level is, of course, a fact that we have already faced and sought solutions in this parliamentary home. Adjustments and simplifications in administrative procedures are also the main guide in this marriage proposal. The initiative came from family doctors, and we also aligned it with the Ministry of Health and these two proposals after taking the best possible account before we put the law into the legislative procedure. On 4 November, the draft law was also addressed by the Committee of the National Health Council. In the framework of the legislative procedure, the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Services and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia were then submitted. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service drew particular attention to certain nomological shortcomings, which were then addressed by the Government and the Committee, which also supported the amendments tabled and the bill's proposal. Allow me to introduce you to the key solutions of the legislative initiative. The draft law amends the second paragraph of Article 15 of the Patient Rights Act, in particular the information to be entered by a doctor or nurse when ordering a patient at the primary level. This is a set of data which has been found to be in fact not necessary and relevant in order to order. This proposal narrows it down. This, of course, allows a family medical team, a pediatrician or a personal gynaecologist more time to actually treat a patient. Among performers who do not need to keep waiting lists, but only an order book, on a proposal from the Ministry of Health, are added selected personal dentists, who still have to keep a waiting book and a waiting list for dental treatment due to long waiting periods. An important change is also the extension of the time limit in which patients activate their subscriber, which they have received, is that they subscribe to the service, as it turns out that because patients miss the deadline prescribed for this, then personal physicians selected have to reissue the guide. However, this is not only an administrative procedure, but a review and triage must be carried out so that they can reissue the guide. This proved particularly problematic at this time of the epidemic. Thus, a proposal is made to extend this period from 5 to 7 days at an urgent stage and from 14 to 21 days at a rapid or regular rate. The amendment also improves the patient’s ability to consider and choose another contractor after he has been commissioned. We know that this is only a small step in correcting and improving the conditions under which doctors work at the primary level. Of course, a number of changes will be needed to actually allow them more time and opportunities to work with patients; of course, with amendments to other laws. Thank you for your attention, and I ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Health Committee as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Mojci Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! At its 11th meeting, on 4 November 2020, the Health Committee considered the draft law amending the Law on Patient Rights submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Council of State. Within the deadline of business, amendments were tabled by the Government on Articles 1, 2 and 3. On behalf of the applicant, the additional explanation was submitted by mag. Peter Pozun. He pointed out that the overload of family doctors had a negative effect on both physicians and patients. In accordance with Article 51 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, everyone has the right to health care under the conditions laid down by law. Overcrowding of family doctors with administrative procedures prevents patients from accessing safe and quality health services. The initiative for the adoption of the law came from the profession, in particular representatives of family medicine. The bill simplifies procedures at the primary level for healthcare providers and patients. Operators of certain health services shall record only the necessary information in the contract book. On the other hand, the proposal for a law prolongs the time in which patients need to submit the health care provider for whom a travel agent is needed. The time for submission of the notice in urgent cases remains the same. The Government's opinion was presented by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Dr Tina Bregant. She stressed that the Government does not oppose the proposal of the law. In December 2019, the Ministry of Health forwarded to the public a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Patient Rights, which regulated the rights to respect the patient's time and to achieve better quality medical treatment of patients. While the government supports the proposed changes, it advocates a comprehensive regulation of the field of patient rights. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, Katarina Kralj, stressed that the Legal and Legislative Service, in its written opinion, has made comments, in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, on Article 1 and Article 2 of the Law, which are also taken into account in the amendments tabled by the Government. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee expressed their support for the proposed law. They stressed that the solutions proposed represent only part of solving problems that have been acute and have accumulated at the primary level in the last 20 years. In recent years, problems have accumulated. The largest ones represent accessibility to a personal physician. In particular, the fact that different information systems have been used in health care has been highlighted and that the unification of these systems is a major financial resource. On the other hand, resistance to electronic commerce is also present, as such activity allows for greater control and traceability. In particular, it has been pointed out that the health sector will need to be given special attention after the outbreak of covida has been completed and that a consensus will be sought in the context of the profession and policy on how to proceed. The Committee then adopted the amendment of the Government to Articles 1 and 2, and the Committee also adopted the amendment to Article 3. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about changes and additions to the Law on Patient Rights with the aim of simplifying administrative procedures and burdening family doctors. The law was introduced into the legislative procedure by the Council of State, which proposes to amend the two articles of the current law. The first amendment would allow doctors to record only the necessary data in the orderbook and that all healthcare providers use only an electronic order book because it allows links between databases. This would avoid unnecessary duplication of data. The second amendment touches on the extension of the time limit for the submission of the travel document as it has in practice been shown that the deadlines for submission are too short and, consequently, physicians should be rewritten in case of late submission by patients of the travel document, which needlessly burdens doctors at the primary level. We do know, however, that these doctors are already overburdened. Simply put, less burden with administration means more time for quality medical treatment of patients. In the Desus Group, we will be happy to support all proposals for legislative amendments when it turns out that some of the provisions in force are causing difficulties or making procedures more difficult. If ever, then it is time to do everything possible for doctors at all levels of health care to relieve unnecessary red tape. Any change in this direction is welcome. In the Desus Group, we also agree with the Government's view that a comprehensive regime will be needed in the field of patient rights, namely the right to respect the patient's time and the availability of services. However, it will also be necessary to define the patient's duties. Doctors and doctors and other health professionals report that they face violence daily and that in such cases they do not have the tools to protect themselves. Therefore, in the Desus Group today, we will support this minor amendment of the law, and we welcome the Government's announcement that the system law will also address other aspects of this pressing issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u56	This is the third time everyone's been here. Your Honor! We don't care what's going on. I emphasize – we don't care. For the past six months, we have seen how fragile our health system is, and at the same time thank all health workers for the excellent work they have done in these times of crisis. In UKC Maribor we have barely acquired an oncology department and can already read how because of the current situation this department can kneel. The system has been operating for a long time on the edge of capacity due to staff deficits as well as inappropriate and defective equipment. The school system produces enough medical personnel for our system, but the problem is that these people are going abroad. This applies to both nurses and doctors. We should solve the problem for a reason and not for consequences. The reasons for this are, however, the most common relations in the workplace and the payment for the work done. For abroad, both are better. With regard to equipment, public tendering is a problem. If calls for equipment were made at the national level or in connection with any other country, there would be fewer irregularities. In our opinion, there is enough money in health care, too much commission. It is also necessary to empower young specialists as soon as possible and to give up many years of occupied jobs by older colleagues. Today's change of law is just a small step in this direction. This change relieves family doctors, as it brings less red tape. At this point, it should be pointed out that there is a major problem already affecting human rights that more than 133 thousand people do not have a selected personal physician. Those currently responsible for the health system should be able to address this problem of priority. Patients are not aware of the rights they have when visiting a doctor. Also, many people are not familiar with the Institute — a representative of the patient’s rights. Therefore, from this point of view, I call on all patients to address the representative in the event of any violation of their rights. I would like to point out that the rule provides that the healthcare provider in the health service network shall ensure that the work is organised in such a way that the waiting period is as short or as short as 30 minutes. So people shouldn't wait in the waiting room for medical treatment for more than 30 minutes. Of course, according to our information, this rule is not respected in many ways. Treatment with a doctor should be carried out quickly and professionally. It is the responsibility of healthcare professionals to ensure this. Finally, let me say that in the Slovenian National Party we will always support those laws that will improve the health system and also have healthcare professionals in mind. Thank you once again to all healthcare professionals who care about collective health in Slovenia in these current circumstances! Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Leon Merjasec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Hello guests, greetings and Members of Parliament! At the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group in 2017, when the Law on Patient Rights was adopted, we warned the then coalition and the former Minister of Health that certain decisions in the law were harmful to doctors and even more so to patients. We have drawn attention to unnecessary administrative procedures regarding the management of waiting lists and order books, the procedure and method of ordering, the specific health services and the placement of patients on waiting lists. And it is from this point of view that we also support today the amendment of the Law on Patient Rights proposed by the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. Doctors have long warned that unnecessary administrative procedures take away the time they should spend on patients. In the light of the recent and, of course, also in our opinion, certain administrative procedures prescribed by the Patients' Rights Act 2017 should be adapted or simplified if not even abolished. Family medicine doctors, i.e. livestock, not politics, have proposed to amend the procedures and data to be included in the contract book in their work, as well as to change the time limits in which patients are required to submit their customer to the service provider. The aim of the amendment of the law is therefore to simplify procedures for healthcare providers at the primary level as well as for patients. The proposal for amendments to the law provides that the waiting list shall not be kept for health care in the selected personal physician of general or family medicine, the selected personal gynaecologist, the selected personal dentist, the pediatrician, and for preventive examinations in which there are no waiting periods. These operators are expected to keep an order book in which the information necessary for the provision of health services is to be entered. Only data such as name and surname, patient’s contact details, and the period of review should be entered. However, the current legislation also provides for the entry of certain data which are not necessary for the provision of health services. The proposal for amendments to the law also extends the deadline for the submission of the travel document or of a more domestic so-called travel voucher, when the necessary level is ZELO HITRO from 5 days to 7 days. In addition, the time limit for the submission of the notice shall be extended where the urgency rate of the HITRO or RED is from 14 days to 21 days. In practice, these deadlines have proved to be too short, for many patients need time to reflect on the selected healthcare provider, and some also miss a deadline due to negligence and not negligence – I repeat, not negligence. Therefore, in the event that the patient is not scheduled, the patient should return to the doctor for a new appointment, causing additional administrative and time burdens for doctors; and patients are also burdened with their return visit, especially with older patients here and with distant patients from the doctor. The new amendment of the law is also that a patient who has already been ordered by a designated operator and has a deadline may choose another contractor; however, he must do so within five working days of being deleted from the list of previous operators. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will, of course, support the amendments to the Patient Rights Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Jože Lenart. He will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u60	Thank you, Madam President. A respected state councillor, colleagues and colleagues! Family doctors in Slovenia are overloaded, that is a fact, we all agree on that. The overload affects both the doctor and the patient. Doctors have repeatedly been burned and dissatisfied with their work; they also open up opportunities for professional errors, unfortunately. On the other hand, patients also feel neglected. Of course, the problem faced by family doctors did not arise today, but it has been present in our society for a long time. In the government of Marjana Šarc, among other things, we have changed the upper limit of the headlining coefficients when a family doctor or pediatrician at the primary level can reject the definition of new insured persons, namely a thousand 895 head restraints. We also made it possible to reward the more burdened primary health care teams through a new accounting model for family medicine and pediatricians at primary level. At the end of 2019, a new Law on Patient Rights was also sent to the public debate, which was also pointed out by the Government in its opinion. According to the current government of the 2019 novel, compared to the proposal we are considering today, I quote, “predicts substantively broader changes and additions to the right to respect the patient’s time, which he believes should be regulated in order to achieve better quality medical treatment of patients.” With the proposal before us today, the proposer wants to simplify procedures for healthcare providers at the primary level and also for patients, thereby increasing the efficiency of the health system and the burden of doctors at the primary level. Of course, we do not object to such a proposal in the Group of Letters of Marjan Šarc, but the question arises in this regard: Will the novel really achieve its purpose, would it require organizational and substantive changes? Why is that important? Since this proposal is for a partial solution today, the proposal has been tabled by the Council of State and not by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of State is a body of interest which, of course, can make laws, we welcome this, but it is not his primary task, but the Government should do so. However, we have recently seen massive proposals being made by the State Council, which addresses various issues. What about the government with the preparation of comprehensive solutions? Does this mean that under this government we will solve problems in a partial way? Finally, I appeal to the government or the competent ministry to approach the issue and address it in its entirety. In doing so, I would like to give consideration to the urgent upgrading and connectivity of information systems throughout health care. A good review of the health equipment and personnel network requires a modern information system based on central management. Slovenia has already developed to a certain extent such an eHealth information system, which we already use with eTravel and we have set up a valuable and good central register of patient data as the basis of a database for an effective information system. I believe that we must build on this in the future in order to pursue rationalisation and transparency over the available capacities of health care, so that we can help relieve doctors so that they can, of course, spend more time with the patient; that is, to the satisfaction of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We're moving on with our positions. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We read about the overload of health personnel and the excessive red tape of their work every day. Especially in recent months, when we have a health crisis due to the covida-19 virus. In his review of the state of affairs, the National Council, which is the proposer of the law, stated that we have a significant shortage of doctors in Slovenia and that some of the results of the surveys and studies have been very overloaded. At this point, we all agree that we have a significant shortage of doctors in Slovenia, young people are fleeing abroad, where there are better working conditions and more doctors because of the difficult conditions of work leaving this profession and do not perform this profession. In order to relieve the work of the medical staff at least a little bit, the proposer put forward a legislative proposal aimed at simplifying procedures for healthcare providers at the primary level as well as for patients. According to their proposal, health service providers would only enter the necessary information in the orderbook, not as they are now required to record non-essential data. However, in the framework of the proposal, the applicants consider that it is also necessary to extend the time in which patients have to submit a leaflet to the health service provider. As they say, the main objective is to increase the effectiveness of the health system by digitising and decommissioning doctors at the primary level. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have already supported the proposed solutions on the working body and, of course, we will support them today. But we must not forget something; some effort and financial will have to be invested in modernising and fully training the information system used by our public health sector. In the debate, the Social Democrats were disturbed by the alarming number or information that as many as 133 thousand individuals and individuals in Slovenia are currently unable to visit or access a personal doctor. The data is worrying and insists on the Ministry of Field Affairs and also on all of us that this problem is being tackled as a priority despite the situation and crisis in which we are in. Health care is a major test; promoting and coping with the challenges of maintaining and improving our public health system must be a priority for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello to everyone again! The relationship between any doctor and patient is extremely important. It is also reflected in the quality of the patient’s health care. Therefore, we must always strive to eliminate all factors that could have an impact on the possible deterioration of this relationship. Both physicians and patients must strive to do so, and in particular the State must take measures to enable this to happen. Today's bill represents exactly that. The amendments envisaged by the new Law on Patient Rights are a response to calls for the assistance of doctors who are also burdened by administrative procedures. The burden on family doctors, who have repeatedly expressed their distress, is essential. We discussed this issue in depth in the National Assembly more than a year ago. The debate was followed by the action of Mr Šabedr, the then Minister for Health, which took on the overburden of family doctors by reducing the headcount ratios. Today we see that this fire-fighting action, unfortunately, has not yielded the expected results. Family doctors are no less burdened, and many citizens have lost a personal doctor. Clearly, we would need more family doctors, which is easier said than realized. Information on how many young people choose to specialize in family medicine is worrying. This specialty for them, unfortunately, is not attractive. One reason, however, is the overload that family doctors are alerting to. Therefore, in the SMC we welcome the amendments to the Patient Rights Act that we are considering today. Amendments to the law reduce the scope of the data to be entered by the healthcare provider in the contract book and extend the time limits for individual stages of urgency in which the patient is required to provide the health service provider with a guide. The fact is that health workers are even more burdened by the current situation in which we are facing the new crown of the virus. And if we can even make their work so much easier by adopting this law, then there is no reason why we should not vote for this law today. Members of the Modern Centre Party will absolutely vote in favour, but at the same time we call on the competent ministry to reduce the burden of doctors as soon as possible, carefully, thoughtfully and comprehensively. If this crown crisis has given us anything, it has also given us the awareness that doctors are primarily doctors and not administrative workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Željko Cigler will be next in line to present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u66	Madam President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the State Council! I ask, citizens and citizens, what is the relationship between the government of Janez Janša and the existing Ministry of Health and Minister for Public Health in Slovenia, if today, when we are talking about the accessibility and lack of personal family doctors, there is no one among us from the Ministry of Health or the Government. 133 000 citizens and citizens do not have a personal doctor in Slovenia. Watch out for that information. A huge number can't even reach the personal physicians with this crown virus present. Not to mention once again what a colleague says about a Kranian medical home, an extremely significant number of patients are covered by the fact that they do not have an ultrasound specialist, which is the basis of primary-level diagnostics. Therefore, I thank the Council of State for opening up public health problems at the primary level, which obviously does not care to this government and to this ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, at the point that we are considering, there may also be a number of unpleasant surprises. Why? Since we have on the table a proposal from the State Council, for which we thank them, whose stated purpose is to relieve primary health care; and to this end, according to the State Council, it is necessary to amend the Patients' Rights Act, and we are reluctant to ask the next question – What exactly does the burden of primary health care have on patients' rights? Otherwise, is it really necessary to abolish patients’ rights, reduce them, so that we can relieve primary health care? And that's an important question. In Levi, we believe that primary health care is essential and does not just need to be burdened; it needs to be strengthened. Unlike the applicants, however, we believe that there are more efficient and more meaningful ways to do this. The applicants and the government want to relieve doctors at the primary level by reducing the amount of data in the order book that doctors manage. You also suggest that the patient’s time should be extended to submit the package leaflet to the specialist. You say this will give the patient more time to find a suitable contractor. Both solutions are evident, forgive, narrow and do not stem from a specific analysis of the situation and will not really contribute to the solution of the problem. Patients no longer need time to choose a real specialist. On the contrary, they need clear information about the options available to them – how to get to a doctor. On the basis of complete information, anyone can then decide very quickly. If the system were regulated and organised rationally and efficiently, the time to submit travel to specialists could be reduced, but not extended. It's similar to an order book. The latter will no longer need to include the patient’s serial number, the reasons for the treatment and the indication of the performance of the health service. In its opinion, the Government notes that by deleting these data, the order book becomes so irrelevant that it makes no sense for the patient to have the opportunity and the right to look at it. We can agree that the basic and fundamental right of the patient is access to health services, but we cannot agree that better access to health services will be ensured by abandoning statutory tasks. On the contrary, it is the responsibility of the State to ensure the functioning of the public health system in accordance with the legal provisions and the rights granted to patients. That's not what this government did. On the contrary, what I said at the beginning. For the primary level, you say a sensitive lack of interest, which is reflected in many of the government's moves; you are also spending a few hundred thousand euros on the primary level in the primary budget, which is ridiculous. You are also unable to provide any incentives to specialise in family medicine, which would contribute to an increase in the number of staff at the primary level in the long term. And in the end, you did nothing, not even in the field of imports of health workers, although you had time all summer and although former Minister Šabeder, by order, increased the number of places for doctors from abroad. In the opinion of the Left not only senseless, but dangerous, dangerous precedent in this area, we will not support the proposal in the Left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Ms Iva Dimic will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u68	Dear President, Honourable State Councillor, colleague and colleague! In the health sector, a patient who needs compassionate and dignified treatment is at the forefront of the disease. Therefore, the functioning of the healthcare system depends not only on the organisation and its forms, but also on the content. Surely one of the pressing problems in our healthcare system is primary health care and access to a personal physician. The overload of family medicine doctors not only affects doctors but also patients. The problem of Slovenian health is still an unacceptable long waiting period, as more than 75,000 patients are currently waiting for the waiting period; and corruption is certainly also a problem of Slovenian health. The fact that in Slovenia we need between a thousand 350 and a thousand 400 specialists in family medicine requires changes and action by all stakeholders. At the same time, gynaecologist specialists working at the primary level, pediatricians and basic dentistry should be provided. The main solution in today's Patients' Rights Act is to change that the operator will no longer enter the patient's serial number, the reasons for its treatment and the indications on the performance of the health service, but will be kept in the electronic orderbook. An important amendment is also an extension of the time limit for the submission of a travel document, the so-called travel authorisation, which is extended from five to seven days at the urgency level of the ZELO HITRO and from 14 to 21 days at the urgency rate of the HITRO or REDNO. Digitalisation in healthcare opens up insurmountable health options, both in prevention and in treatment. It brings quality exchange of usable health data and connects different institutions and medical expertise in comprehensive treatment and quality treatment. New forms of treatment are emerging, including through modern technology. In New Slovenia, we are working to make use of innovation by strengthening accountability, cooperation and preventing abuse. I stress that each individual must always have control over his or her health data. We really need changes to health legislation. Today's proposal for a law submitted by the Council of State for consideration is the first step towards improving and better accessibility, so the Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Vojko Starović will be presented as the last position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good-bye, everybody! Dearly beloved, the purpose of the bill before us is to facilitate the administrative procedures that doctors must take in ordering and entering patients into the order book. Among other things, the time limits for the patient to submit a travel document to the healthcare provider in the public service network shall be extended. We believe that the proposed initiative and change will actually contribute to the burden of family doctors, as these supplements come from the profession, i.e. from people who directly carry out and carry on their activities. This in the SAB is warmly welcomed, unlike some others, because we believe more in people who do the work specifically than in those who often pursue completely different partial interests behind desks or in political bodies. Even in the current pandemic crisis, it has been clear that people on the ground are actually controlling the crisis in the intertwine of institutional carriers; from below. The very organisation of health organisations and civil protection and the local functioning of civil society is what solves real problems; not someone at the Ministry or in this Chamber, as many would like to say. It seems that it has led to today’s day to solve things with a multitude of regulations and to a peak of regulated papers; while the real implementation of work and projects is of a more optional nature. The desire of politicians and bureaucrats to regulate legally everything that comes to mind is obviously very strong. This is reflected in the continuous production of constantly new rules, creating a lot of procedural, very bureaucratic problems. This destroys autonomy and the creativity of individuals and organisations. Bureaucratic thinking actually breaks people's responsibilities, which is their own ability to find the right answers and solutions to problems. The fact is that the adoption of regulations is not taken into account too often and does not include the professional public who is familiar with work and knows what it needs to do effectively and what burdens and obstacles it needlessly. Unfortunately, the digitalisation that we all swear on and in which direction we are going, which is supposed to bring simplifications and save time, is proving better than something that serves primarily control. Doctors say that some new requirements are coming monthly, which primarily serve to control the insurance company over the checks and procedures carried out, the use of medicines; however, it does not allow the patient to be fully monitored in the healthcare system. In the SAB Group, we agree with the proposaler who has listened to the problems the medical profession faces in practice; therefore, the changes that bring only a fraction of the positive burden will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u71	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 20 November, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, that is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments to the transport laws in road transport. The draft law was submitted for consideration by a group of four Members and Members with the first signed Maša Kociper. At its 22nd meeting, on 3 November, the draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a work force. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. As the first to receive the word, Mr Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President. Nice greetings again to all present! The bill is very populism because it concerns a vulnerable group. In the near past, pensioners aged 65 and over, disabled persons and war veterans have already come to their account because some are already free of charge on cross-border routes in inland road and rail traffic. The SAB Group wants to extend this to the local level. Most local communities in Slovenia already offer free transport for elderly and disabled people. Certain municipalities, for example in Krske, have, for example, Travellers — free transportation for the elderly, including volunteers who drive the older population after work, purchases, medical examinations and also work for them. Public transport increases sustainable mobility, is less crowded on the road, too slow drivers are less, usually those who give us all the nerves. The latter is good for our environment, nature, parking loads, if you drive for free, or if you pay those few cents for a one-time ticket. The problem of inequality is evident from the very beginning, for the new law is supposed to apply to those urban congregations or larger municipalities that carry out urban line traffic. How this will be done in other small municipalities, we ask you in the Slovenian National Party. You may also like the presentation of the Luxembourg regulation, which has become the number one European country with free public passenger transport for all passengers. We believe that the applicant has a very narrow view of the whole situation. It is important to look at all municipalities, otherwise we can talk about first- or second-class citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. You know, statistics for making calculations are not just in Ljubljana and Maribor, where mobility and standards are already at a higher level than elsewhere. We have buses that are still faster than trains because there are not so many intermediate stations. They are also fast lines — somewhere they are not; they are more expensive than a train ride, and they do not drive very often. A lot of money and time will be spent on this burning infrastructure. Just look at how pre-diving our bus and train station in Ljubljana is so that we can be truly ashamed. The financial implications will certainly be much higher than €3.8 million at the annual level, because it is logical that if transport is free, much more will be used and used. There's going to be a fight between the young and the elderly, who's going to get up early, there's going to be overcrowding of lines, there's not enough buses, there's going to be short of a chaotic state that no one wants. Do you have any idea that people who pay a ticket and drive every day to work can't use transportation?Oh, my God! In view of the current epidemiological situation in our country, we believe that no one has the overwhelming desire to ride trolls or city buses today. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Kepa's next. He will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! The draft law provides that the proposed partial legal solution will significantly increase the budget obligations of the Republic of Slovenia, which were not foreseen. While the proposed solution is aimed at integrating various types of public passenger transport, the possible adoption of the bill at this time would lead to greater financial consequences, which are not foreseen in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021. It is also important that the applicant's arguments that the implementation of the law would have financial implications, estimated at around 3.8m euros per year, are underestimated and do not take into account all the costs of urban liner transport operators. In addition to the direct costs, it is necessary to take into account that, when the proposal is adopted, the number of passengers in urban line transport should be increased and that transport operators and their operators should provide additional driving and vehicles for which they will not have revenues from ticket sales. The additional spending rights to cover the loss of revenues from urban passenger transport operators are not planned in the adopted budget for 2021. The financial implications shall be taken into account for all registered lines of urban line passenger transport, irrespective of the fact that this transport is already free for passengers, since all local communities and all operators must be treated equally. It is important that the legislator must also provide funds for its implementation in the event that the implementation of the legal obligation for urban transport is imposed by the local community. It should be noted that the proposed solution is part of the changes planned by the Ministry of Infrastructure in the future, so it is better to wait and arrange for a comprehensive overhaul of the public passenger transport system rather than to introduce a new solution. The Emissary Group rejects this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Rudi Medved will be next in line to present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! Since 1 July this year, in Slovenia, free public bus and rail services are for pensioners, people over 65 years of age who are not in a working relationship, holders of disabled cards and war veterans, over 65 years of age. Even during the time of the government of Marjan Šarc, the National Assembly has enacted this, and so far more than 150 thousand people have benefited from it. However, the beneficiaries are about 600,000. And according to experience so far, the proposal is a logical continuation to allow this benefit to the same groups of the population for urban bus transport. On the one hand, it is the social nature of such a solution; it is not negligible. On the other hand, public passenger transport is one of the pillars of sustainable mobility. Such an increase in public passenger transport transport, which would certainly help to introduce a benefit, would, of course, relieve road transport in its entirety. This also means the right way to achieve the environmental objectives to which we have committed ourselves and, of course, they are in the interest of all of us. But the current government coalition has turned it down. Most of these same Members and Members of the current coalition have been supported by free inter-city bus transport, but not by the city. Indeed, the city would be even more justified, since most pensioners benefit from this. But no. In addition, the government has served with such clear and unconvincing arguments against the fact that it probably does not believe itself. One of the main ones is that carriers lack enough buses to do that. Ah, come on! Yeah, but they'll buy them if they want to make more money. If they drive almost empty, they're worth it?Oh, my God! Moreover, in the current financial perspective, a lot of money is devoted to bus purchases, precisely because of the need to enforce sustainable mobility. Well, another excuse is standard when the government has no intention of doing anything, but it says that partial solutions are not good and that it is necessary to take a holistic approach. Well, again, come on! What is the free intercity transport that has been approved in this national assembly? Yeah, of course it's also a partial solution. But with more partial solutions, there can also be a comprehensive solution. In addition, it would be in the interest of the financial position of the municipalities with which this coalition boasts so much that it would certainly be a beneficial measure for the municipalities. Many of them are free city bus transport for pensioners, while some for all citizens and citizens, are already making it possible with their budget funds. By taking over the burden, they would be burdened by the state. In such a way that the proposal would have a beneficial effect both on the pensioner's standard and on transport and environmental policy, the costs of the country would be relatively negligible compared to the benefits. But since the coalition has not proposed free urban transport for pensioners, this is now a bad proposal. And it will not surprise us that he will soon put the same content into Parliament, but it will be true because it will be coalition. And the excuse that things are not solved in a partial way, that they need to be dealt with in a systematic way, is the very government that has been in power since it's been doing things in a partial, partial way. Let us look at all the PKP laws that are found in these laws, partial of course. We mix things up so that I'm sure they don't even know what they've been throwing out for PKP6. But when it comes to the benefit of the pensioners, once that benefit is prudent, the second time reckless, and then understand if you can. And that's how this law ends the parliamentary path.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak will be next in line to present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u78	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! We recently approved in the National Assembly a bill providing free public interstate passenger transport for pensioners over 65 years of age, disabled persons and war veterans. The marriage solution has been very commendable and in practice also works well. The applicants of the previous proposal assessed that it would be useful and useful to provide these groups with free urban transport. The proposed legal solution would thus fully ensure free public passenger transport for all the groups already mentioned. We welcomed the proposed solution in the Group of Social Democrats, and we also supported the marriage proposal on the working body. Many municipalities have already offered free public transport to these groups or at least some of them, and it makes sense for such good practices or solutions to be regulated at legal level. The solution would certainly contribute to safer transport and promote sustainable mobility, which we are so keen to talk about. As a result, the cities would have smaller greenhouse gas emissions, cleaner air, higher quality of accommodation and smaller traffic jams and congestions. The bill also received support from the Commission of the Council of State, but it unfortunately did not convince the government coalition and the Ministry of Field Affairs to come across the bill. Every day we can hear statements and comments about permanent mobility, the green future, caring for the elderly, caring for the vulnerable and others; but only a few times is done in this direction. This proposal is indeed a small step in the direction of the said proposal, but it does. It is a smaller step towards an integrated solution, but we have only been able to identify this step in some opposition groups. As has already been said, we have supported the marriage proposal by Members and Members of the Social Democrats, because we believe that the solutions and objectives of the marriage proposal are good and meaningful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the SMC Group will be presented by Mrs Matej Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u80	Your Honor! The amendment of the Road Transport Act proposes legal arrangements for free transport by city buses for pensioners over 65 years of age, disabled persons and war veterans. Dear colleagues, this is already the second novel of the Road Transport Act in the last two months proposed by the SAB Group. The last novel, which was discussed in September, was intended to regulate, at the legal level, the entitlement to free tickets during the summer holidays for students and students. Despite the fact that the SAB has proposed substantively different solutions in these two novels, they have quite a few common points. These are mainly incorrect assessments of the financial implications for the budget and politically welcome proposals. These have always accompanied even criticism of the work of officials at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Mr Reich said on the Committee that if we listened to officials at the Ministry of Infrastructure, we would not have free public passenger transport for these categories today. With regard to the financial implications, it should be pointed out that the applicant has misjudged them to EUR 3.8 million and the reality is completely different. The budget should provide 14.4 million euros for this purpose. And despite the fact that the competent ministry has pointed to this gap, opposition parties have proposed an amendment of €3.8 million instead of €14.4 million to the 2021 budget for this purpose. As a result, we can conclude that if the proposed amendments were to be adopted, this manna of a good 10 million euro should cover the municipalities themselves; and if we are in the process of adopting the Law on the Financial Discharge of the Communities, such a proposal by the proposer is inconclusive. We do not support the bill in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, but not because they would be against free urban transport for pensioners over 65 years of age, disabled persons and veterans of war. That these groups are eligible for free transport, we have proved with the support of a bill providing them with free cross-border transport. Moreover, on the basis of our amendment to this target group of beneficiaries, we have put the veterans of war into this target group at the time, but we have not supported today's proposal because the solutions to this area have caused us difficulties, for example, the introduction of free tickets for cross-border transport has increased our interest in this mode of travel. This has not yet been followed by infrastructure and, in practice, some beneficiaries of this measure had only a free ticket but could not use it. They simply failed to get on because of bus congestion. In amending this legislation, we must continue to take measures in the context of sustainable mobility so that public passenger transport is accessible, fast and comfortable. In particular, the so-called yellow belts should be introduced, several modern vehicles and drivers should be provided, the frequency of driving should be increased, the circle of P+R extended and the public passenger transport network optimized. Only then will we be able to adopt a measure that will solve social problems and encourage the use of public transport in one way or another. The goal of all of us is the same – to promote sustainable mobility, but our paths to the goal differ. The Ministry has repeatedly stressed that the current ticket system has become too complex and that a systematic, rational and prudent approach must be taken to reform the integrated public passenger transport system. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre we understand this and we will wait for these solutions. Until then, we are likely to consider another proposal proposed by the former Minister of Infrastructure through her delegation. We will not, however, guess why she did not want to propose these changes as a minister when she was also responsible for public passenger transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Željko Cigler will be next in line to present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, respectable! We have before us a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Road Transport Act, and I must tell you that those who read this short amendment of the law and see the mobility, ecological, spatial, energy and social effects of this proposed law do not need some over-intellectual capacity to do so, and therefore rejecting or rejecting the changes of this law by individual parties is surprising because I have assessed them to be a little more powerful in their consideration. The law provides free urban public transport for pensioners over 65 years of age, disabled persons and war veterans. Why do we say pensioners? As poverty among older people in the Republic of Slovenia is an increasing social and political issue that we can no longer avoid; and free public transport for older people would greatly alleviate and increase their mobility; at the same time, this is a measure towards sustainable mobility in the country, and we strongly support the proposal for amendments to the law in Levica. The second objective of the law is, of course, to shift as many people as possible to public local transport, thereby reducing greenhouse gas emissions from transport and reducing the number of cars on the road, particularly in cities. In time, free public passenger traffic should certainly be introduced in cities for all. As the number of passengers would increase, additional vehicles should, of course, be provided on the part of public passenger operators. Since this number of users would slowly increase, of course this will not happen overnight. In addition, it will be necessary to ensure the cost and time efficiency of public passenger transport in such a way that, in addition to the number of vehicles carrying out this service, driving tactics are also increased. It will also be necessary to provide additional resources in the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. First of all, it has to be pointed out that it's not a big deal. The proposer – this is Alenka Bratušek – assesses the financial implications of the law to EUR 3.8 million and the government to 14. Although this is a difference, it is a change in terms of the impact we will achieve, social and environmental, as far as the difference is concerned compared to what the government intends to spend only next year to realize the vision and to spend 780 million euros on weapons. And here the question of priority is asked – where are we going to give the money? The question is whether it seems more important to buy weapons for NATO's operations on the other side of the Earth than for poor pensioners, disabled people, war veterans to be provided with free bus transport. For example, in Ljubljana, a one-time trip with a troll is worth 1.3 euros. Public urban passenger traffic is already basically using less assets that cannot afford their own car or taxi. Therefore, the introduction of public passenger transport, which must be free of charge, even if in the first step only for pensioners, disabled persons and veterans of war, is undoubtedly a just social measure, even though this means that a millionaire will ever be driven with a troll. And that's not just gonna be an incentive for those who don't have a car. They have to use the bus now, walk or cycle, but this is primarily an incentive for those who have a car, and this is a huge cost for them just because of gasoline and will now continue to use public passenger traffic. In this way, we will also achieve greater ecological cleanliness and better health for the people of the cities in which public passenger traffic is used today. Once again, I would like to say that, at this point, citizens and citizens are in a very different position to provide passenger transport in local centres. In Velenj is Lokalc, this is local passenger traffic, free of charge. In Celje it costs EUR 100 per year for this transport, in Velenj nothing. In Ljubljana, it costs EUR 365 per year for local passenger transport, in Velenj, nothing. Let us put our citizens and citizens in an equal position here and ensure these ecological, social, health and spatial effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The aim of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act is to ensure free public passenger transport for pensioners over 65 years of age, disabled persons and war veterans and to ensure that these categories of citizens are transported as safely as possible. The aim of the bill is also to promote sustainable mobility, which contributes significantly to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and cleaner air in cities and consequently to improving the quality of people's living. With the proposed amendment, in addition to the free cross-border line transport of passengers in internal road and rail transport for pensioners over 65 years of age, disabled persons and war veterans would be able to drive the same categories free of charge in urban line traffic in those urban municipalities carrying out urban transport. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose the proposal for a law, but points out that the proposed partial legal solution will significantly increase the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia's budget, as indicated by the proposer, who estimates the financial consequences of the law to around EUR 3.8 million. The government points out, however, that these statements are undervalued and do not take into account all costs incurred by urban liner operators, estimated at EUR 14 million, which are not provided in the 2021 budget. So this is another of the laws that the opposition has recently submitted. Of course, you have all the right, but one wonders why you did not put in such proposals a bad year ago than you were in the government and would also be responsible for providing the necessary financial resources in the budget. Since the proposed solution is part of the changes that the Ministry of Infrastructure intends to incorporate into the law that will regulate the renovation of public passenger transport in a comprehensive and systematic manner, in Novi Slovenija we do not favour such partial solutions as this proposal for a law. In Nova Slovenija, we hope that the amendment of the law, which is already in interdepartmental coordination, will answer in particular the question of how to establish a financially sustainable, environmentally sustainable and user-friendly public passenger transport system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the SAB Group will be presented by the mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam President. Fellow Members and fellow Members! As of 1 July, the latest amendment to the Road Transport Act, which was created under the auspices of the former Minister of Infrastructure, Alenka Bratušek, has enabled free cross-border transport to pensioners over 65 years of age, war veterans and disabled persons. This benefit has so far benefited more than 150 000 users, confirming the effectiveness, effectiveness and usefulness of this measure. We have therefore tabled a novel in the SAB Group, which would provide free transport for pensioners over 65 years of age, war veterans and disabled persons on the basis of existing experience. Several municipalities in Slovenia have already provided these categories with free city line traffic. Among them are the municipalities Nova Gorica, Novo mesto, Postojna, Velenje and Murska Sobota. The two largest municipalities in Slovenia – Maribor and Ljubljana – do not allow free transport for pensioners. By adopting our proposal, the most vulnerable groups would also be provided with free transport in the remaining municipalities carrying out public passenger transport. By confirming the novelty, they would take a major step towards promoting sustainable mobility, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, reducing transport in urban centres, improving transport safety, all of which would have an extremely positive impact on the environment and society. Free urban transport could provide pensioners with a little less than €4 million a year, a small cost of €13 billion to the heavy budget. Unlike the Ministry, we have obtained information on transport costs from carriers in the SAB party and have included them in the proposal for a law. And for this small price, the ruling coalition had the opportunity to take a major step in line with the example of other European countries, allowing free urban transport to at least the weakest categories while reducing environmental burdens. In the SAB, we strive to ensure that public passenger traffic is free in the future for all categories of users and not only for pensioners, older persons, disabled persons. That is why we will also insist on the future with our proposal. The perception of colleagues from the SMC that our proposals are populism is, in fact, a compliment. Especially as a compliment because a colleague of the Udovč who is no longer here said herself that the measure is effective and good and that empty buses have finally filled with passengers. Once again, I stress that the coalition has missed an extraordinary opportunity to do a good job and thus support the changes in the law that would allow our most vulnerable people to drive free of charge through urban passenger transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u87	Thank you very much. As a last resort, Mr Ivan Hršak will be presented on behalf of the Desus Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. During this term of office in the National Assembly, we unanimously adopted a new Law on Road Transport, which has enacted free inter-national public passenger transport, including for pensioners or all persons over 65 years of age. We are pleased that this programme direction of Desus is legal and realised. The epidemic has led to delays in several areas, including the preparation of the implementation of free transport, but the current government has succeeded in implementing the new law on 1 July this year. This time, the proposal to amend the Law on free road and rail transport for the same categories of beneficiaries extends from inland cross-border line transport to urban transport in those urban municipalities that carry out urban transport. In the Desus Group, of course, we absolutely agree with the idea and support it; however, we note that the proposaler follows only a partial solution, only for one part of the pensioners who would benefit from it, which leads to additional injustices for the first-class and second-class pensioners. Indeed, some congregations have listened to the needs of the elderly and are already in place free of charge, as we warmly welcome in the client and the Desus Group. However, this decision is purely and only in the domain of the individual municipality, and regulation at national level must be considered and comprehensive. Let me just illustrate it. The proposal foresees only free urban transport. What about pensioners outside cities whose doctors, pharmacies, shops, and so forth are even more remote than in cities?Oh, my God! I come from Zasavje myself. At this point, I ask the proposer – Are the Zavek pensioners not equivalent, for example, to the Ljubljana pensioners? Are they just second-rate citizens? The answer is clear and uniform — no, absolutely not. And that is why we need to follow equality, equal treatment of everyone, regardless of where they live. Furthermore, the applicant's arguments that the implementation of the law would have financial implications estimated at around EUR 3.8 million per year, on the basis of the loss of revenues from liner operators, are underestimated and disregarded in our opinion and view by the Ministry of Transport Operators in Urban Liner Transport. We also believe that the inquiry to assess the financial consequences of the bill should be made on a broader sample and not just for two municipalities, namely the Municipality of Ljubljana and the Municipality of Maribor. The experience of free cross-border liner traffic shows that additional vehicles and cross-border liner vehicles are still available due to the halting of certain transports and the current complete halt to public traffic due to the covida-19 epidemic. However, it is a big question of how we would provide sufficient capacity for urban transport operators, or whether we would be able to do so only if we switched to a normal way of education and if students and students once again benefited from urban transport or other release of measures currently in force. If we want to integrate urban and cross-border line traffic and thus ensure a level playing field for all users, we would certainly need a strong operator, which we do not yet have or is only in the process of developing. In the Desus Group, we are aware that in the future, in terms of the transition to a carbon neutral society and the transition to a smaller environmental pollution, we should ensure that all citizens – and not only those categories – have free public transport. Such a solution would be a smart investment in terms of helping people with social hardships, which are unfortunately many pensioners, as well as in terms of protecting the environment. Despite the good intentions and wishes of the proposer, which we have no doubt about, we must also be aware that the state budget is not a bottomless bag. Also, the moment we are at the top of the epidemic and facing the consequences, in particular the economic and social ones that will not surround us and await us after the epidemic, is not the most appropriate. On the basis of the assurance of the Ministry of Infrastructure that the amendment of the law, which will be fully, systematically and not only partially renovate the public passenger transport system and in preparation for which we will also be actively involved in the Desus Group, we did not support this proposal in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of 38 Members and Members with the first signed by Nataša Sukić. With regard to this bill, the group of 38 Members and Members, first signed by Natasa Sukič, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate, so I give the floor to Mrs Natashi Sukić's representative for further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Good-bye! For decades, the British Ascent Resources Corporation has been trying to get Petishovci to crack. It is a dirty technology that is found to be devastating to the environment and health of the local population abroad. The British have been working for decades to obtain all the necessary permits from the country to forge profits at the expense of the polluted environment and the inhabitants and residents of Petišov and the wider region. Even threats and extortions by government officials and illegal and unacceptable pressure on government officials have been used. However, to date they have not obtained all the necessary permits, but the only way to ensure that they will never be, is to ban cracking by law. That is why we have not once in the National Assembly in Levi, but we have twice proposed a change to the Mining Act, which we would do just that. We have considered almost the same law in the past month. When we first tabled a proposal for a legal ban on fracking, we expected that the entire ruling policy would come together and protect the inhabitants and inhabitants of Prekmur, the environment in which they live, the land they are processing, and the natural values that are rich in the Mura Biosphere and represent a well-tapped potential for sustainable development in the region. At the very least, we did not imagine that the ruling coalition would issue its own people, its own country, in such a condescending manner, and would vote for the dirty profits of foreign corporations. The law was thus discussed in silence, and there was no debate at the meeting of the National Assembly. All we could hear from coalition parties that had broken the ban on fracking at the Committee's hearing was short and substantively empty positions that did not even deserve that name. That is why in Levica, together with other opposition parties, we have re- tabled the amendment of the Mining Act and requested a general debate in which the public can see why the British Corporation Ascent Resources has great confidence in this coalition and why people do not have it. In June this year, when the Administrative Court ruled that the Ascent Resources had to carry out a preliminary environmental impact assessment and obtain an environmental permit, the Corporation, on the one hand, threatened the State with an action before an unnamed international tribunal and, on the other hand, welcomed the performance by the Government of Janez Janša, I quote, “that they have greater confidence that the project will receive the necessary permits.” Last month, when we discussed the law that proposed the ban on fracking in Levica, it showed that the British corporation's trust in the currently ruling coalition was more than justifiable. Within two hours of the ongoing debate on the bill's proposal, the members of the government did not define in a word our bill, with an exceptionally SMC MP who was around the law and wondered what it was, and tried to prove that it was not actually a real fracturing in Petisovci. Pure deception and a lie. Neither has the Government been defined until our proposal for a law. The opinion they sent to the National Assembly stated that our law would only be examined and that they were preparing the amendment to the Mining Act themselves and that it would be better to include all solutions in one law, even though the prohibitions of fracking themselves did not include them in their law. All the opposition's calls for the consideration of the law to be suspended, for the coalition to talk and reconsider to protect our people together, our environment against looting foreign capital, were bob against the wall. In silence, Members of the ruling coalition voted against the bill, against the interests of the local population. It's a national betrayal move, and it's an unprecedented disgrace. Everyone who helped us not to ban fracking today knows this very well, so they did not want to put themselves on the committee, so they kept their mouth shut for two hours and then pressed the "against" button – against public interest, a healthy living environment and for the profit interest of a foreign corporation. Because what do we get from fracking? Just change. And 90% of the profits will land in the pockets of this corporation. That's absurd. More and more European countries are taking a decision to ban fracking, including Britain, where a complete moratorium on its implementation was adopted last year. Why? Because they protect their own people, their own environment. Ascent Resources can't do a fracking at home [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u91	Madam Members, please slowly conclude.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u92	Because the British government forbids it. [[…]] We give the ruling coalition one more chance. Fracking must be legally prohibited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u93	Thank you very much. In order to introduce the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Blaž Koshoroku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u94	Madam President, thank you for your word. Messengers and Members, welcome! On 27 October 2020, the Group of Members and Members, signed by Mr Nataša Sukič, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Mining Act. They proposed to supplement Article 6 of the Mining Act by adding a new third paragraph proposing that it would not be possible to obtain a permit for exploration and mining rights for the use of hydrocarbons by injecting water or water with added chemical impurities under pressure. They also propose in the transitional and final provisions that the applicable permit for research and mining concessions and applications for authorisation for exploration and mining rights for the exploitation of hydrocarbons be aligned with the provisions of the amended law within three months of the entry into force of the amendments to the law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the text is not appropriate, as it allows for the injection of all other media. Injecting a certain amount of water with additives is an essential component of oil and natural gas production, as well as drilling of wells. The deep drilling of wells, including wells drilled for geological and geomechanical research, for example, for construction purposes, is carried out with a flush that lifts the drilled particles and combines the stability of the well. Furthermore, concessionary acts or regulations governing mining rights, in a specific case, this Regulation on the granting of mining rights to holders of mining licences for exploration or extraction of mineral raw materials issued on the basis of laws which no longer apply, cannot be amended in a specific case by the Mining Act. For the sole issue of the concession contract for the exploitation of oil and natural gas, the text of the bill is not adequately formulated and does not take into account the financial consequences of the interventions of the right to use hydrocarbons by injecting water. The Regulation on environmental interventions for which an environmental impact assessment is to be carried out provides for an environmental impact assessment to be carried out for these parts. The Ministry of Infrastructure is already proposing, as you mentioned, the amendment to the Mining Act. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We are now moving on to a presentation on the views of the Group. First of all, Mr Franci Kepa gets to present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to the secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal calls for a second time within one month for a ban on the production of hydrocarbons by means of a so-called fracking method by preventing the acquisition of a mining right for hydrocarbons. This proposal for a law on these amendments and additions has been examined and the Government considers that the proposal is not supported at this stage. The situation on the ground is that neighbours from Croatia and Hungary are producing gas in the same geological location from a location near Petišovec by the cracking method. There is also a fact that the former Government, in which the parties whose priorities are now opposed to this acquisition, adopted this mining strategy in 2018, which states that the potential use of gas in this area is also made by such methods. Gas production is different, and these methods are more, and future uses will be completely non-aggressive and environmentally acceptable. Now the representatives of the same parties of the then government reject the already adopted strategy overnight. We are convinced that the strategies adopted must be sound and well thought out also because of the commitment to potential investors in this area. The Ministry of Infrastructure has been preparing a new law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act for some time and will also be ready for public consultation, where new proposals will be added to exploit the proposed law. The law is not good to change because of just one problem, but a comprehensive and complex approach must be taken. It is important to be careful that we do not do any damage to certain rights already acquired by swift and partial interventions and thus bring the matter into a difficult situation. The main reasons for addressing some of the shortcomings of the current law are the legal situation of holders of existing mining rights to exploit mineral raw materials and to improve arrangements for more efficient management of mineral raw materials. Our party will not support this proposal and we will wait for a comprehensive mining law prepared by the Government and will be ready shortly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Pavšič is next. He will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are actually deciding which rights are more important – the rights of concession holders or the rights of people living in Petišovci and having the right to a healthy environment. We are witnessing another attempt to move forward in banning proven dangerous methods of hydrocarbon production. The Committee on Infrastructure, the Environment and Space on 6 October has already discussed the same proposal for amending the law. The committee did not accept the amendment at that time. Arguments why the government coalition – and today we hear that the government – is also opposed to the adoption of these amendments to the law, we already know and somehow it is a hunch that today the result will be no different. Let us look at some of the coalition's arguments why this law should be rejected. The views of the section on the implementation of hydraulic fragmentation or so-called fracturing, on its impact on the environment and space are often the opposite; and this coalition makes good use of it. It is true that we can read various analyses and opinions supported by different, even conflicting professional arguments, and in general the fact that there is little evidence of impact. When we know little about influences, it is still an important so-called precautionary principle. The precautionary principle is detailed in Article 191 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It refers to a risk management approach in the sense that a policy or measure should not be implemented if there is a possibility that it could cause harm to the public or the environment and if there is no scientific consensus on the issue at hand. The matter needs to be re-examined when more scientific data are available. Today, we are listening to the possible financial consequences and how Croatia is doing so. The government and the coalition MPs sought an argument in need of systematic reform of the Mining Act. Although with a little more energy than today, the representative of the department has said so at a meeting of the mother's working body. And changing legislation just because of one change makes no sense. This whole thing isn't funny, this is ridiculous. Systemicism is referred to by a coalition that in six packages intervened in a completely non-systemic way in different laws. The issue of nature protection is not a matter of systemic regulation, but it is a matter of a system of values. After reading and reviewing the List of Marjan Šarc, we perceived enough risks not to ask ourselves – fracking, yes or no? What are the risks? Fracking uses huge amounts of water. These are the facts. Another major problem is the pollution of water, as dangerous chemicals used in fracking can go back to local waters. The waste water consumption by-product of fracking water is a large quantity of waste water, only small parts can be reused. In the process of cracking stones there is a shaking of the soil and during drilling, environmentalists believe that potentially carcinogenic chemicals can be eliminated and groundwater contaminated. In addition to air and water pollution, fracking can have a long-term impact on soil and surrounding vegetation. There are also harmful effects for those living near pumps. The number of auxiliary ingredients released in the site of the well can lead to health problems such as eye irritation, nose, mouth and throat. The effects on air quality should not be ignored. For the List of Marjan Šarc, there are only risks that any of the above may hold, enough to support any effort to ban fracking. And what do the European Commission and other European countries say about this issue? In 2014, the European Commission also published a communication on the impact of hydraulic fractures on the environment and human health in the European Union with extensive hydraulic fracturing. On the basis of the potential negative impacts on the environment and health, the Communication states that the European Union countries may also prohibit this activity. Thus, in 2011 the hydraulic break was legally prohibited by France, and in 2017 also by Ireland. The UK has also banned natural gas from being produced by hydraulic fracturing technology, as a new scientific study has proved an indisputable link between fracking and earthquake suns. It's a scientific study. The British company wants to use this method together with the Slovenian partner in Petišovci to obtain fossil fuels. It was explained that the Republic of Slovenia would have neither the financial nor any other benefits of this business, as 90 % of the profits would have belonged to the British partner and, on the other hand, the amount of gas generated would not have covered the needs of this fossil fuel in Slovenia. So why should we allow ourselves to create another degraded area for the purposes of the capital interests of a completely different country or enterprise? Other countries! Are we really trying to put our land and our wealth, instead of protecting and caring for future generations, into use and exploitation for some foreign companies? And a few more absurdities. Where are the benefits of a green tourist destination seen in these matters? Green and digital, which will also be at the forefront of Europe's level, even in these times? Where is it to detect efforts to respect nature, including the right to clean drinking water in the Constitution? There is no doubt in the List of Marjan Šarc, nor should you. We will clearly support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor! A few weeks ago, the Mining Act was discussed in this National Assembly, but unfortunately failed. Despite a solution that would relieve and protect the environment and the inhabitants and residents from the disastrous consequences of hydraulic fracturing or so-called fracturing, the law did not receive sufficient support. The ruling coalition and the competent ministry have not opposed the proposal by voicing that the Ministry is preparing a comprehensive legal reform, including a proposal to ban cracking. The legislative proposal that we are considering today has exactly the same objectives and solutions as the previous one. The opposition parties, as well as the Commission of the State Council, have recognized the solution of the law as well as in the previous reading, and it seems ridiculous to us that such a good proposal for a law would fall simply because of the excuse to wait for a systemic or comprehensive solution. The planned gas produced by fracking would not contribute to the country's energy independence, but the method of obtaining this gas would be extremely harmful for the local environment and the population. This would result in groundwater pollution, gas leakage in the atmosphere, and the health problems of the surrounding population would increase. The company in Petišovci comes from the United Kingdom, where fracking is prohibited; it was also banned in France, Germany, Ireland and also in Bulgaria. Recently, this invasive and dangerous method of natural gas production has also been banned in Slovenia. The legal proposal has a simple solution that says that it is necessary to prohibit or legally prevent the acquisition of rights to carry out fracking or hydraulic fracturing. In the Social Democrats Group, we recognised the solution as good in the previous reading, so we took the initiative to reintroduce the Mining Act together as a whole of the opposition and to ban the implementation of fracking in Slovenia. Social Democrats will once again support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Gregor Perič is next in line to present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u102	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! Before the legislative procedure for the amendment of the Mining Act was completed, the Left proposed a ban on fracking, with the support of LMŠ, SD and SAB, another proposal for a law banning fracking is again tabled. This is the same text and the SMC's position has not changed in this respect. In the SMC in this regard, we repeat that the Mining Act treats energy raw materials as raw materials of strategic importance, including hydrocarbons and their habitats in northeast Slovenia. This is also clearly stated in the State Mining Strategy. However, we have adopted this state mining strategy in the former Sharcha government. So we are also a little surprised by this amnesia that we have heard and are likely to hear again today. Although fracking was not yet known to the general public, the public paid greater attention when Minister Leben told the media that he had been threatened by Ascent Resources, which is planning to acquire natural gas in Petišovci. Following all the events related to fracking and Ascent Resources led to the fact that this company had announced an action against the Republic of Slovenia. Although the action has not yet been filed, we have no doubt that society is also keeping abreast of what is going on in this regard, even here in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, with such an accounting with foreign investors on the public scene, we are also giving a very clear message to all other foreign investors. And this message is clear — don’t go to Slovenia because we don’t need you. If we look at history, the gas in Petišovci has been pumping for over 70 years. During this period several hydraulic fractures were performed in the wells, while hydraulic stimulation of the smaller volume is regularly carried out in our immediate vicinity in Hungary and Croatia. Nevertheless, fracking in Slovenia received a negative mark, since it is repeatedly compared to a cracking, but to the one from the United States that has significantly different technological characteristics; the ones that one of my predecessors described or described. The negative effects on the environment are also the main reason why our country has a growing tendency to ban this technique of oil and gas production. There is no doubt, however, that we are talking about the issue of environmental protection and, in fact, not the issue of the conditions for the search for, research and exploitation of mineral raw materials, which is ultimately laid down by the Mining Act. The applicants have been warned on several occasions, but things are still going the same way or the same way and, according to our assessment, they are proposing changes to the wrong law for the second time. And we can also see this as some kind of pear maneuver of a proponent who somehow does not want to take into account that environmental issues are regulated in another law, i.e. the Environmental Protection Act. And if we use this logic, then we could expect a purely reasonable or justifiable way to talk next time about the ban on fracking in the framework of the Health and Health Insurance Act, because fracking also has an impact on human health. Taking into account the logic of the drafting of legislation, we will all agree that this issue must be addressed in the appropriate place. We support the ban on fracking in the SMC, but the proposed law raises more questions than answers, as the government representative has said; therefore we cannot support this law in such a form. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Željko Cigler will be next in line to present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u104	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, respectable! When we discussed last month the proposal for amendments to the Mining Act proposed in Levica for the purpose of banning fracking, the Government did not want to define itself until the proposal. In an opinion sent to the National Assembly, they wrote that our solutions would only be studied. The ruling coalition, under the leadership of the SDS, refused to discuss the ban on fracking. When considering the law we proposed in Levica, the committee was kept silent and then pressed the “against” button. One week ago, in response to a written question concerning the faction in Pomour, the government finally identified itself to this controversial method by which the British oil corporation Ascent Resources seeks to make profits at the expense of environmental desertification and destruction of Prekmur. Between the lines we can understand from the government's reply that it does not prohibit or even quietly support the cracking of natural gas in Petišovci. This is justified by the fact that the Petišovsko Polje is located on the sandstone, that natural gas reserves represent the potential to reduce energy dependence in Slovenia and that, therefore, the extraction of gas in Petišovci is in the public interest. However, the Government concludes its answer to the question sent shyly, in a way that does not define only one method for individual cracking technologies, although we all know that this gas can still be obtained. And that's fracking. This is a broken rock method, where natural gas and oil are found. However, it is carried out in such a way that, under high pressure in wells from which conventional methods of hydrocarbons are no longer available, water and toxic chemicals are injected. This causes small cracks in the rocks, leads to hydrocarbons coming up against the surface, while injecting water, chemicals and gases also emerges through these cracks; and they escape elsewhere. In its opinion, the government fully takes for its arguments those represented by Ascent Resources, on the risk of cracking in the Petišov field, based on the distinction between sandstone and shale cracking, and it is pleased to point out that environmental problems that have been identified in connection with fracking in recent years are mainly related to the extraction of shale hydrocarbons. It is true that the major environmental disasters caused by hydraulic fracturing in the United States are mainly linked to the hydrocarbon deposits in shale. However, also fracking sandstones on which the Petišovci are located leaves irreparable consequences of the environment, that is on our Prekmurje. The most famous example of sandstone fracturing, on the same stone basis as we have in Petišovci, is the Groningen gas field in the Netherlands, where fracking has caused more and more frequent and increasing earthquakes, which have left serious consequences on all buildings situated alongside and near the fields. On the basis of evidence of the connection of earthquakes, damage to the buildings of the local population and fracking, the Dutch Government in 2018 ordered more than 200 gas-producing companies in the Groningen Field to stop pumping within four years. And while the Dutch government has decided to ban further cracking because of all the problems caused in the Netherlands, our government, Janez Janša, uncritically sums up the arguments of the British Ascent Resources Corporation on the risk of cracking on the sandstone in Prekmurje. The British corporation, which will be fracking in the Petišovsko Field, does not do so there to ensure the energy self-sufficiency of Slovenia. No; it does so to create profits and yields that are promised to those who have invested in Prekmurje's environmental devastation project. These are those who publicly threatened the former Minister of the Environment and Space of the Republic of Slovenia, Juret Lebnu and his family on social networks. The energy self-sufficiency of Slovenia will be practically the same; whether gas is pumped there or not. This gas will be owned by the British corporation, which it will sell to anyone, once it has been planned, and it will be so small in Petišovci that the entire stock of this gas will cover almost any percentage of the total Slovenian consumption of natural gas that we do not even talk about the contribution within the total energy consumption, because the numbers are so small that they are already very difficult to express. However, the British corporation will, according to our known information, prune 90% of all profits that will be generated by the cracking and desolation of Prekmur. The government says that gas mining in Petišovci is in the public interest. Surprisingly, this government opinion is not shared by people of the municipality of Lendava, who will be one of the most affected if the implementation of the fracking takes place. In a letter to the National Assembly one month ago, the municipality of Lendava made it clear that it must be in the clear public interest of the State, that the cracking in the territory of the municipality is not carried out and must be prohibited without delay. That's what the Lendawians say. Of course, it is not in the public interest of this country to carry out a fracturing operation in Petišovci in order to make certain unnamed international investors rich at the expense of environmental degradation through the British corporation; this is their private interest. It is in the public interest of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent fracking immediately; not only to protect the local population and Prekmurje, which with the Biosphere area of the Mura represents the untapped opportunities for the sustainable and co-natural development of this part of Prekmur. It is in the public interest because the state of the world climate, and formally the Paris climate agreement, obliges us to stop mining and burning hydrocarbons to meet our energy needs. The climate crisis and the associated crisis in the biosphere require us to leave natural gas where it is – in the country. This is not only in the public interest of the local community, but not only in the public interest of the state, but in the interests of the entire planet. And this difference between the position of the Government and the position of the local community of Lendava shows very well the interests of this government and the ruling coalition and how much people can exercise their will through this government. This is a dictatorship that works for the interests of private capital against the interest of the people in Slovenia, which should have power in this country under the Constitution. If that is not the case – and we still hope that it is not – and if the ruling coalition is indeed acting on behalf of the whole country and in the interest of all the people and residents, but not in the interest of international capital, then the proposal for a law proposing once again the ban on fracking in Slovenia in Levica and in the whole of the opposition must be adopted at this meeting of the National Assembly. Finally, a few more words about the fact that the ban on fracking should be better regulated in the Environmental Protection Act, which follows from the government's previous reply to the written question on the prohibition of fracking in Slovenia; this position has also been expressed in our National Assembly. The Environmental Protection Act is a general law, and the Mining Act is a lex specialis that deals only with mining and not with other environmental interventions. Of course, it is only right that individual prohibitions and restrictions on mining are regulated in the Mining Act. Therefore, the adoption of the law proposed by the Left and the entire opposition is the only and most appropriate to prohibit this invasive method of natural gas production, which has already been banned or otherwise restricted in many European countries and around the world in sixteen. In Britain, where Ascent Resources comes from, which wants to devastate our Gas Prekmurje, is a cracking ban. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Mikhael Prevc is next to present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u106	Thanks again for saying that. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act proposes a ban on the production of hydrocarbons by means of a method of so-called fracturing in order to prevent the authorisation of exploration and mining rights for the use of hydrocarbons by injecting water or water with the addition of chemical impurities. It is a process of breaking rocks by injecting water and chemicals under great pressure from the well, but it can have harmful effects on the environment and human health. The proposed amendments to the law also state that some European countries have already identified the harmful effects of fracking and have therefore banned or partially banned this type of fossil fuel generation. The aim of the law is therefore to ensure a healthy and clean living environment, preserve nature and implement the Paris Climate Agreement on the conservation of global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the issue of hydraulic rock breaking and consequently the negative impact on the environment and health of people should be solved by profession and not by politics. The use of hydrocarbons by injecting water or water with added chemical impurities under pressure is already limited by environmental legislation, since an environmental impact assessment and environmental consensus must be carried out before such an operation begins. The European Parliament Resolution of 21 November 2012 on the effects of shale gas and oil on the environment also confirms that this is an expert issue in which all environmental, public health and climate change impacts need to be verified. Similarly, the European Commission Recommendation of 22 January 2014 on minimum principles for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons (e.g. shale gas) using large-scale hydraulic fracturing recommends that Member States carry out strategic environmental impact assessments. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also points out that the text of the bill is not adequately formulated and does not take into account the financial consequences of interference with the concessionaire's already acquired rights, which, due to the loss of income, could require very high compensation. Therefore, the Government considers that it is not appropriate at this time to interfere with the already acquired rights of the sole concessionaire for oil and natural gas, as the contract expires on 28 May 2022. However, without a legally binding environmental permit, hydraulic cracking of stones will not be possible until then. In Novi Slovenija we therefore agree with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for amendments alone is not suitable for further consideration. We have received assurances from the Ministry of Infrastructure that it is already preparing a comprehensive revision of the Mining Act, as the shortcomings of the current law on the legal situation of holders of existing mining rights should be addressed to exploit mineral raw materials and to improve the system regime for more efficient management. Since the amendment of the law with comprehensive solutions is expected to be ready by the end of the year, in New Slovenia we cannot give the bill a green light for further consideration at this stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Vojko Starović is next. He will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honor! Again, we have before us a proposal for a law that we discussed in the National Assembly last month. The main purpose is the same – the ban on fracking in Slovenia. It's an environmentally harmful method of producing hydrocarbons by breaking the rocks in which they are found. We have already shown support for the proposal in the SAB Group. We have also contributed signatures to a renewed attempt to ban fracking. This would also further ensure a healthy and clean living environment for the local population. It is about ensuring a constitutionally defined right to a healthy environment. This aims mainly at Prekmurje, where the conditions for such a method of production of natural gas are present; in Petišovci in the municipality of Lendava. The consequences of fracking are also evident in many cases from abroad. There have been more frequent and more severe earthquakes, groundwater pollution and drinking water, and fracking also affects air quality. Many countries have recognized the harmfulness of this method and have also banned it legally, including Britain, Ireland, France, and Bulgaria. The proposal also follows the commitments of the Paris Climate Agreement regarding the abandonment of the production and use of fossil fuels. An exception to cracking in our territory is seeking to obtain a British corporation. Arso has decided in the administrative procedure and the Administrative Court has confirmed that an environmental impact assessment and environmental consensus must first be carried out in order to draw up the gas by hydraulic breaking. That is why Slovenia has earned a threat from the said corporation with a lawsuit – and we are all scared. This is a kind of absurdity, as the country legally implements the rules on environmental protection and human health. In doing so, the behaviour of the corporation can be understood that it does not even wish to pursue the procedure. In the SAB party, we therefore propose that Arso finally find out what is quietly saying that the intervention is unacceptable. In the SAB Group, we believe that Slovenia should also follow the practice of countries that have already recognised and consequently banned fracking. This will ensure the health of people and their property and the environment and the unspoiled nature. Obviously, this attempt will not work again, as the government has already given a negative opinion on the proposal of the law. In their view, the proposal is not adequately formulated and does not take into account the financial implications. In the SAB Group, we disagree with the Government and assess that the proposal is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr Blaž Kosorok, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we are again considering the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mining Act. As at the October meeting of the National Assembly, we are also talking today about a method of natural gas extraction called hydraulic fracturing or fracturing. If we refresh our memory, fracking is a process in which a mixture of water, chemicals and sand is injected into the underground layers of rocks. This causes these layers to break, releasing on the surface the natural gas trapped in the rock. This causes these layers to break. According to some data, the method is environmentally harmful and as such completely prohibited in some countries. However, investors claim that the possible negative environmental impact depends on the geological composition of the soil. As laymen in this area, it is difficult to assess what is true. Certainly it is essential for experts to judge this. According to the applicant, there is concern that, contrary to some other countries which have already banned such a method, Slovenia would be able to implement on its own soil. The applicants therefore want to enforce a permanent ban on the use of this method in Slovenia. The introduction of the novel would also put an end to all the authorisation procedures currently in progress, so they would also intervene in and applications for licences and mining rights already issued. While the latter justify weighing between two rights – between the right to a healthy environment and the right to legal certainty. As part of the previous examination of the almost identical text of the draft law, we adopted an explanation by the Ministry of Infrastructure at the meeting of the mother labour body, which is already preparing a comprehensive amendment to the Mining Act. At the time, Ministry representatives said that the amendment would address several shortcomings in the current law, while also promising a thorough study of the issue of fracking and its inclusion in the system law. As part of the discussion at the previous meeting of the National Assembly, we have said that in the Desus Group we understand that the population in the Prekmurje area – the issue currently concerns the Petišovsko Field – wants to live in a healthy environment. We recognize potential developments at this end of Slovenia in the direction of agriculture and tourism. Such development in a degraded environment is not possible, so we are once again calling on the competent ministry to undertake a thorough study of the problem and to prepare the system law as soon as possible. Today, despite the concerns for which we allow them to be justified, we will vote that the law is not suitable for further consideration, and we will wait for the immediate consideration of the system law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša will be the last to present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u112	Once again a nice greeting to all present! In Slovenia, the intention of the British company Ascent Resources is reflected in our intention to obtain gas by stimulating wells with a Slovenian partner. The Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia decided that an environmental impact assessment should be carried out prior to the issue of the gas draw-out licences; however, when the Administrative Court attached the Agency, the British Corporation announced the action against the Republic of Slovenia. There is no doubt here that the British company has greatly deceived its investors and the population in this area. We must not leave our countries in the clutches of multinationals that we cannot defend ourselves against. And in the Slovenian National Party we support those NGOs, societies that fight fracking. Why the permit was even issued, we are interested. In Slovenia, oil and natural gas are mined in Petišovci for the Pomur region, which is ecologically sensitive. Harmful effects are being affected by Nature 2000 and the Mura Biosphere Area, where Unesco recognized an extraordinary natural wealth. In the Slovenian National Party, we are absolutely opposed to earthquake suns, groundwater pollution, drinking water with toxic substances, and destruction of the most fertile agricultural land. Many of you are still not aware that Slovenia is not a self-sufficient country, of course, I am talking about self-sustainment with food; therefore, it is even more important that everyone has come to their home land. As a responsible company, we must stop using fossil fuels to meet our energy needs if we are interested in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It is necessary to respect international obligations, the Paris climate agreement, otherwise everything is irrelevant. Other countries are becoming aware, so they are increasingly being taken to ban and limit this method of hydrocarbon production precisely because of preventive action in order to protect the environment, health and property of humans. Tell me why we should not follow this example and good practice. May I remind you that Article 72 of the Constitution stipulates that the State is concerned about a healthy living environment and Article 73 that the State and the local communities are concerned about the preservation of the natural and cultural heritage. We must not afford to join Prekmurje in degraded areas such as Anhovo, Velenje, Vrhnika, Celje and any other city. It is in the public interest that the current permits for research and mining rights be harmonised precisely to protect the rights of the inhabitants and residents there to a healthy environment. The proposal for a novel, as you have probably already noticed, is not significantly different from the rejected proposal on the home working body, which was dealt with following a reduced procedure. Since it is a matter of substance and topic, we hope that the general debate will take place constructively in order to get a green light for a second reading. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The first word is Mrs Sukič as a proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u114	Thank you very much, chairman. I'll respond quickly to everything I hear. When we first tabled this bill, the government responded in such a way that they would only examine the matter, which is unacceptable, because when you file something, the government cannot afford such a formulation, that it will only examine something. Well, now, in the second step, the government has apparently examined. But study what? The argument of the Ascent Resources Corporation, which in some slightly twisted way repeats itself as its argument. And today I had the opportunity to hear exactly what I expected, because these are classic attacks, this creating some distinction between what fracking is, and what real cracking is not, while just in the United States where there are really severe environmental disasters, fracking takes place on shale, but here it will be on sandstones. But we've heard that we have an example of cracking in Groningen in the Netherlands, which is exactly the composition of the stones that we have in Petišovci. Exactly like that, sandstones. And what are the results of the fracking? Repeating more and more severe earthquakes that really destroy nearby buildings, the population. And don't tell me that these aren't the catastrophic consequences of some hydraulic cracking of rocks. And I'll tell you; now they'll say it's not the same. A little less pressure may be used in sandstones, but it's the same. Fracking is carried out at great depths. In the Petišov field, for example, where there was an experimental cracking in two wells, this is happening at a depth of 3,000,500 meters. And now imagine, if the consequences of fracking at any depth such as this result in the leakage of even smaller amounts of hydrocarbons, injected chemicals or other substances into the earth and groundwater, it is impossible to fix this. It is virtually impossible to implement any remedial or remedial measures. And in this way, you destroy healthy drinking water, destroy the environment, demoralize it, and potentially have a catastrophic impact on the health of people, the local population. And what are we talking about here today? We're talking about protecting public interest. We are talking about what the Lendava Congregation is finally asking us to ban. But you hear the municipality of Lendava, or you only listen and only listen to this Ascent Resources Corporation and shake before its threats. What else is one greedy corporation gonna do, like it's gonna threaten? Of course she'll threaten because she's making a profit. And what will be the result? We won't be energy self-sufficient if we let the fracking take place, so it's pure larifari. Please don't waste such lies anymore, so it's gone. What will Slovenia get out of this? 90% of the profits will be paid by this corporation, and it will also endanger human health and the sensitive Biosphere Area of Mura, which is a unique entity that Unesco has recognized as a world heritage. You now speak here – yes and in Hungary in Croatia. Look, we don't care what the Hungarians do, but the Croats do if they're stupid enough to allow it. They don't have the Wall Biosphere, but we do. And we need to protect him. But what's even higher, a corporation that has allowed itself to be pressured by criminal acts, with unheard of pressure on Minister Lebn, with threats, even for his life and for the life of his family. And you forget that from his former fellow Members. He was your minister. It is unheard of that one such corporation dares to do so in the first place. And you would have smoothed it all out, public interest is not your concern. You don't hear the calls of the Lendava Congregation. You can't hear, you can't see the comparisons of what's going on in the world. You don't understand why countries leave fracking after each other or give a moratorium on fracking. There are more and more; there are not only these five. Look at what NGOs are reporting. These countries are huge, in one way or another, giving out moratoriums and abandoning cracking. Great Britain banned him. That's where the Ascent Resources come from. That's where they can't do it. But they'll be using us. Why? Because you're afraid they're gonna sue us for some money or something. Not to mention, it's a fossil energy, which we're talking about. And we have not only committed ourselves to the Paris climate agreement, we know how much we need to reduce emissions of emissions into the atmosphere only by 2030. And we would now allow something in 2020 to contribute to the emissions of these releases into the air. What's the logic here, my people?Oh, my God! What's that supposed to mean? And then a bluff like that. But most repugnant is that you sum up this pathetic, false argument of a corporation that embraces every plant that invents this difference between slates and sandstones. Look, Groningen's standing on the sandstones. And there we have clear evidence, right here in front of our noses, literally at the door, of what happens when there's a cracking. And that's where they banned him. The Dutch demanded 200 companies – complete the story within four years. Now you're going to let it open, or what?Oh, my God! So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Rudy Bear has the word. Prepare Vojko Starović and Robert Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u116	Thank you very much, President, for your word. We're living the days of partial solutions. Such a convenient excuse has now been found by the ruling coalition, together with the government, that whatever the opposition proposes is all a partial solution. If today were to look for the word “partial” in this National Assembly, I was too late to count how many times members of the Coalition used the word “partial”; not only in this case, but before that, we had already dealt with a law which is also partial, although a year ago almost similar law was not partial. And, of course, they excuse the government’s coming — once it is — and the government will come with a complete solution. Will this government come with a comprehensive solution?Oh, my God! Since March 13th, we have been looking at partial solutions daily. We daily look at partial solutions, mostly pushed into anti-Korona laws, where action is indeed due to the epidemic. Has anyone ever looked, respected coalition, and respected government, at what else is in these laws? I don't think you know for PKP6 what you've put in again, which, of course, has absolutely nothing to do with the crown crisis, but at least they're systemic solutions. We haven't seen one in six months, but now, of course, you're going to solve it systemically. But the main flower about the proposal that is on the table today is that the honourable fellow Member, who was in the previous coalition, says how the government of Marjana Sharca advocated fracking, that is, this hydraulic fracturing, the acquisition of natural gas in this way. How, for God's sake, did she defend it if the minister from your party, a respected colleague, was a target of such violent threats that he had extensive police raids around his house and on his way from his children's school to his home. This is the kind of method that a foreign investor was operating on, and I'm guessing now he's going to hit us with no idea what amount. The foreign investor coming from the tax oasis, forget to say that this concession is worth some 10 000 euros a year in the face of millions of profits; the foreign investor who used such methods to obtain an environmental permit, literally blackmail, I don't know if cracking, because they obviously have experience if they do, but I don't know whether it was also the case if the minister of the environment had to take over the police, and probably they weren't that innocent. So much for who defended it, because I don't want to repeat what the government of Marjan Sarca did and what the previous government did, but the obvious fact is that the government of Marjana Sharca was against cracking. This is a fact and has, of course, supported the Minister for Environment and Space. What was going on with the minister, but I just said it, but you know it. Finally, the Head of the Slovenian Environment Agency took the matter away, and we know that she took it away, because the internal review of all procedures by the time Minister Leben came to the Ministry showed a whole bunch of irregularities, which meant that the Director had to leave the situation. In fact, the government has not even come up with any built - up view, somehow very shyly hiding its point of view in this regard, but there is no intermediate solution here — whether you are or are not in favor of this way. We judge, but of course we are not the only ones, the whole world practically joins slowly in that it is harmful and from an environmental point of view, a controversial way of interfering with nature. There's no big debate from here on out. If we have first identified ourselves in Slovenia as a carbon-free philosophy, for a healthy, undegradable environment, then there can be no great dilemma here. Hydraulic fracturing is some kind of mining. I come from Zasavje, from the mining area, and believe me, I know very well what a degraded environment means because of mining. I know that very well. And for decades in these three valleys, we have been facing the rehabilitation of this degraded environment, and we will continue for decades. So there is no way I can support it to intervene in one way or another in the environment elsewhere in Slovenia, because I know what the consequences of this kind of environmental intervention are. Besides, we're not alone in this, absolutely not. All right, obviously, there are still concerns with us; but not to list again countries that have already been identified or recently identified against such interference in the environment. And, of course, it is interesting that there is also Great Britain among these countries, where this valued foreign investor comes from, which, of course, cannot do so at home, but would do so here. But it is only as an example of another essentially hypocrisy, when due to some interest in foreign capital we defend such harmful interventions in this part of Slovenia. What exactly will Slovenia have from this foreign investment? Has anyone calculated what Slovenia will have from this investment? What's the added value; amazing, modern technology, with a drill and a hammer, that you cling so frailly to the plant that it might eventually drive us away from foreign investors? Foreign investors are already welcome, but I think we have other areas where we would be useful and welcome, but not right here, where I really have to join the opinion of those who say that it is actually a semi-colonial exploitation of the country with large profits, minimal concessions and extremely harmful environmental consequences. Accidents also happen, if you don't know, in 2018 there was a serious accident in the United States of America, in the Belmont district, in the area where they carried out or were still cracking. I don't know if they're still doing it. There was a huge explosion, and about 60,000 tons of methane went into the air. What would that mean if something like this happened to us? I am sure that we are not dependent on life, we are not dependent on this foreign investment to be destroyed by the Petisovci; but we are dependent on this country for life to try to preserve it as we have received it. This, of course, can be done primarily with a very strong response to environmental issues, which I am not surprised by. However, there is no reliable response to environmental issues in this government. So, for now, I find this kind of shy and covert sympathy to do this fracturing in Prekmurje, and I'm not surprised at the general orientation of this government on environmental issues. We will certainly support this proposal in the List of Marjan Sarcas, even though it is partial, even if it is partial. As I said in another law today, even with partial, partial solutions can eventually come to a solution. Besides, I don't even know what the system would do, what the system could do here, systemically. Yeah, nothing. Here it is, whether you are or not. But thou art for, thou shalt write into the law, that thou art for: but thou shalt write that thou art not. What kind of system is needed here?Oh, my God! There is really no need for a serious debate here and I don't know what kind of introduction I don't know about, because there is no intermediate solution. There's no intermediate solution. We are in this case all the time, the List of Marjana Sharca all the time and did not change the attitude on the side of the environment and we will stay here.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word. Prepare Robert Pavšič and Željko Cigler.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u118	President, thank you for your word. I would agree with my fellow bear — whether we are for it or not. Today we have heard quite a few debates, and those who are against the law say they are also against fracking. Now somehow trust, we don't believe each other, there's something behind. Let's put it off, let's do this systemicly – it's not. Either you're in or you're in. And some of the evidence that the previous government of Marjana Sharca did not do so at the time of its adoption, but it was evident by those of the coalition partners who had been there before. So, according to some logic, the government of Loizet Peterlet should do this, but environmental awareness is just getting stronger and changing. And knowing about this fracking, nothing threatened us because it wasn't there. And if this is now present and if we know and if there is clear evidence, on the other hand – because they are doing it in Hungary, I have heard it again today and in Croatia, these are our examples. No, let's think about it, I believe, one end of a university-graduate lawyer is in me, I understand that without any problems this provision goes into lex specialis, with no least problem. It's not systemic, it's nothing. Only the method as unacceptable is defined here. That's all. That's what we're talking about. And knowing that this fracking is harmful, and kneeling; we are so servantly, I will kneel before the stranger again. We've got something. One of the fish soups he once read to the Slovenians that what is there in Vienna is Danish servants so I won't use that bad expression. But it's not working. Come on, if we're in our own country, I guess we'll decide here for our people. If at least now I heard from the ruling coalition that they were giving us a guarantee that this would be adopted in another law; and if we offered it now and put it into procedure, it would be that. On the part of the government, we would expect, if it's not appropriate, if they're anti-fracking, they would say, "Come on, no, here, my boys, let's make a deal, we'll put it in this law and put it in the procedure." It would be a fair game, but not some misdirection but a la, la, la, la, but a slavery; we cannot sell everything out. We will now give the railway back to Hungary, we offer. I just don't get it. What are we just gonna do here? And now the minimum wage. No, he can't get up because we're meant to be a journalist, or what?Oh, my God! Without our own land, we will no longer make decisions, and we will be diaries. And the opinion of opposition members, behind which at least – including polls – is not taken into account at all. Now let's leave the chosen ones, what happened, what you agreed to do with each other, but I'll say at least half of the Slovenians are on the side of the opposition. So you don't give half the Slovenians anything. You don't take them into account, their proposals, their wishes for cooperation. Nothing was adopted yesterday, consistent with the last amendment. We want to do good, otherwise, even with PKP1, PKP2, PKP3 was reportedly only one amendment adopted together. Why are we doing this? Half the Slovenians then work for second-raters. We're first-class and second-class. No, we're seriously overreacting. I would have expected, at least from the former coalition parties, but when they had governments, I don't know if it's a command or whatever it is, a little more sense for people, even for those second-class ones. I'm afraid we're actually starting to divide into first-class and second-class. And this will, this thinking that the government is all-powerful, that it can work all over the profession, through public debates; 65% of the adoption of all laws and all procedures goes through the public, goes through the professional public. Are we aware of this? 65%. We've got a meter. Among them are municipal affairs. Despite public debate, beyond the consideration of the people, beyond the consideration of the profession. Now it's not in a direct relationship, I'm sorry, but that's why I strongly supported what the doctors suggested. I wasn't against, no, deep down, because it looks like they haven't found any other ways. There is no public debate about things, about laws; what we do and with the power of power we accept things that are unconstant must be constantly corrected. I think it's the wrong way, and let's start to take people's ideas into account, and also different opinions, because that's the essence of democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The representative of the proposaler Nataš Sukić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u120	Thank you. It's a very short intervention. I agree with my colleague again. You do not take into account the local population, called Lendava. The municipality of Lendava, they live there, they will be hurt if anything happens, if anything goes wrong, not you, the decision makers from the chairs in Ljubljana. Furthermore, you do not take into account the Council of State, which has already supported us in the first step with a convincing majority on the committee responsible. You do not take into account members of the opposition, not at all, it is clear, but what is the worst – you do not respect the Constitution. In the Constitution we have guaranteed the right to a healthy environment, to a healthy life, in the Constitution. And all of this is smooth hit on behalf of the interests of some blackmailing corporation, which went so far as to threaten, even with life and death, former Minister Lebna and his family. So far away. And for what? For the change? For 10% of the profit if there's a cracking. Dear souls, do you realize what you're doing?Oh, my God! Beyond the will of men, beyond all logic, beyond all else. Why? I'm really wondering why.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The word is Robert Pavlovich. Prepare Željko Ciegler and Gregor Perič. Robert Pavšič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u122	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. Now we have actually come to the heart of today's issue. It is not a question of whether this country or whether this nation is against or for fracking, because in fact we are all against fracking, including those who will vote that this law is not suitable for further consideration, and you will hide for some trivial reasons that you draw from your hands in terms of non-systematicity, nonconsistency, some legal matter. People don't care about this legal language, which is completely nonsense. Yesterday we heard when we were discussing the most important document for the next two years, in which is essentially the problem of these 90 chairs, 90 chairs in here. Voting discipline. Twice, twice, this has been exposed from the mouth of the coalition MP. Voting discipline, or as colleague Starović has expressed itself, is a command where the command is above the very contents of the measures that we are considering and which should be intended for the benefit of this country and for the welfare of individuals in this country. I don't know. It seems to me that you have made a promise to someone in the government because supporting this marriage is causing you very serious problems. Did you promise anyone anything? And then, of course, the Members are embarrassed. Not the opposition, we will have a clear conscience after tomorrow's vote. But some coalition Members will be excused and justifiable for your actions. I remember the committee on 6 October, and by the way, just for illustration, we have been sitting on the committee more than we are sitting in this Chamber right now, and some of the parliamentary groups don't have any representatives in here. And if we look at the reported time – the coalition reported 60 minutes, opposition 120. Okay, today is also an unlisted party on the opposition's side, so we're counting down their 5 minutes, 55 to 125 minutes. This means that you will devote these 55 minutes to the trivial search for even more trivial reasons, in your opinion, to preventing our trivial law from going in the legislative process. On the October Committee, we all agreed, all Members, even the Government's representative, that it was necessary to prohibit fracking. We proposed the suspension of the session, but then you noticed in this interruption and in this content a political moment – but here it was no longer a matter of content – and you decided that by then you would be overtaken by the amendment proposal; as you will be here today verbally and tomorrow with the roller driver in the vote. I have already lost any hope that in this Chamber Members could actually – this is not a political question – understand that we are playing with people's lives; not today's inhabitants, tomorrow's, tomorrow's, over 50, over 100 years. And this constant search for culprits in the past, because this is completely in this manner of this National Assembly. Can we look ahead and let Hungary and Croatia do what they want?Oh, my God! The government opposes, we've heard in position. The government opposes. And what if the government opposes?Oh, my God! And we're the government? I didn't vote for this government. And the one who voted in favour of this government does not yet mean that, for every matter proposed by the Government, he must also vote and confirm. And let's be honest, today we're talking about whether the law is suitable for further consideration; not about whether we're going to ban fracking or not, but we can move on with the law. And the second time, no, there's no way; because you left the fracking, I heard. We let the fracking?Oh, my God! A colleague of Rudy's told us these are the methods of the fracking that threatens the Minister of the Environment and Space to feel threatened, the adult man feels threatened and afraid for his children. And we're afraid of financial consequences?Oh, my God! I'm gonna start using a vocabulary that really shouldn't have a place in this room. Did you really fall on your head?Oh, my God! There's no doubt here. The law, for the first time, is suitable for further consideration. Secondly, as a result of this law and this treatment, it is even more important than today's trivialisations, which you will be so pleased to spend, and to begin with the personal discretions of all those who today have hoped to speak against your opinion. The ban on fracking is the most important; but if we have a minister in this country who has a much more important economy than the environment, let him change the resources, although I think that even if we did change it, it would be the same problem if only names were replaced. It is necessary to change the mindset and to start working towards restoring trust. Today's systems are working. And that we actually have some values and responsibility, because if you ask me, even if you have to pay compensation to this society, it's better than something in Petišovci does, because some things don't have a price. Among these are trust, especially honor and spine.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The word is "Cygler's Turtle." But get ready for Gregor Periè and Primož Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are talking about a lot of important issues now that I have been in the National Assembly for the past two years intensively through our discussions; and this is all the time how people will live in Slovenia or how loud capital – I will tell you what cases I have in mind – through Slovenian land, through Slovenian environment, through Slovenian resources, and what consequences will be left to the use of air, land, mines or cement production, and the interests of capital in our lives. We see that we haven't been able to beat the capital here yet, and I'm not going to tell the capital that people will know what this is all about. I'm talking about smoking, co-incineration, to make cheap cement in Anhove. I'm talking about they wanted to start a co-incineration in Tesh 6. I'm talking about anti-floating discrimination, which is taking place in Celje, I'm talking about fracking Prekmurje, I'm talking about power plants in Mura, and I'm talking about the Lower Savi. We haven't been successful anywhere so far. Colleagues and colleagues, who chose us? We have been chosen by citizens and citizens to defend and promote their interests; and this is also the attitude towards good environmental management, and the space, in particular the banning of such activities and the free economic initiative that threatens the environment and endangers the lives and health of people in this country. Let's ask ourselves whose job we're working on. In the interest of capital or our citizens? In the introduction, I, as well as virtually all representatives and representatives, unfortunately only so far, have told the opposition a great deal of important, domestic and international findings and arguments about why fracking in Slovenia is unacceptable. Why it is not appropriate to obtain gas by means of fracking, which will be carried out by the foreign Ascent Resources Corporation from England, which will generate profits for itself and there make a practical destruction of the environment of the important part of Prekmurje. Prekmurje, which is already such a landscape or part of Slovenia, is far from being developed. Prekmurje, where important economic sectors that have provided jobs, life and social security in the past are virtually destroyed. Prekmurje where people fight to get a doctor or to maintain primary health care or to keep the mail. And now we're going to give them the point of destroying this province to the end. That's the result of the fracking. This is what we have found through the fate of Groningen and many other parts of the world, from America and elsewhere, sixteen countries are practically banned from cracking, where they have faced severe environmental consequences, pollution of water and probably health consequences for the economy. What does fracking mean for agriculture in Prekmurje? What does fracking mean for the Mura River biosphere, for tourism in this part of our country? These are questions that must also be asked by Prekmur – Members of the National Assembly, one of them is Dejan Židan, who is an expert in the veterinary field and also in agriculture, was an agricultural minister, clearly taking a stand on the basis of arguments. He said it didn't work. The Minister of the Modern Centre of Jura Leben in the past government was against this in the past mandate on the basis of the arguments of expertise and knowledge that have been highlighted around the world on this gas generation technology. And the fact is, what does the coalition member Joseph Horvat Prekmurec think about it? I am sorry that Joseph is not here, and I respect him, but I expect that, as the real Prekmurec will be honest with these facts, he will give his opinion and explain his voice. Because the victim, who will have to pay capital for this one Quizlin role of the ruling coalition – I speak Quizling in this sense because they serve the interests of foreign capital at the expense of Slovenia and the position of citizens in Slovenia – will be the victim of Prekmurje, their living space that will be sold. For whom and for what? Colleagues and colleagues, the public, I ask you whether this is being done again not only because of threats, the fear of threats, but also because of the interest of foreign capital, which is apparently also being established in a typical local and common way. This is also by paying your consent. Will we sell this part of Slovenia to destroy itself because the consequences are irreparable, as colleague Natasha has already said. There are no pardoning, compensatory, mitigating measures here. Are we going to sacrifice Prekmurje? Who and why? Who gave us this mandate? Excuse me, whoever says this is about these words, these warnings and the bill proposing to prevent cracking in Slovenia from generating political points. This isn't about picking up those political points or the kind of performance. This is about the existential issues of people and parts of Slovenia, as well as the whole country, that is Prekmurja, where people are no longer living in an enviable situation. Is this a development policy for Prekmur? Colleagues and colleagues, all ministers and also ministers, you said that you would carry out your function in accordance with the Constitution and in favour of the welfare of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Where do you represent the interest of the welfare of the citizens and citizens of Slovenia who elected you by not forbidding slapping when opening the door to a foreign corporation to exploit and destroy Slovenia? Is this the payment for being elected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The word is Gregor Perich. Get ready to go to Mount Siter and then Sonibo the Prince.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u126	Thank you, President. Have a nice hello to everyone again! Today we have heard many things and many times I think that the red thread of today's debate is mainly some kind of ecopopulism; and I will also justify why. First. When we had an interesting discussion there a time ago, one river or rule, a Latin saying — Pacta sunt servanda, stood out. And then we were all surprised to learn that some politicians in here don't even know what that means. Rules or arrangements are respected. And here we have some fundamental separation, some fundamental division within our political space, whether we stick to it or not. And if we stick to it, we need some kind of discipline, which also has a lot of problems, and that's proved very well in the past, because if there's no discipline, then we're in chaos. We don't want chaos. I believe we agree with all of this. That is why we need some order and we need to stick to some arrangements. And part of these agreements, or the basis of the Pacta sunt servanda principle, is also in the award of concessions as part of the rule of law that we have in our last days and weeks full of mouths. When a State grants a concession, it grants it under certain conditions and gives someone a right. And if the State subsequently decides to change the terms and conditions of this concession, it will in fact create a different situation, which is then also the basis for possible actions and claims for damages. And I think that everyone in here is more or less aware that we must be very careful in this sense when we are interfering with some of the existing concessions for a number of reasons. For the first time, to protect the state budget and to avoid any claims, lawsuits and then pay, I don't know what amounts from the budget, when we know that we could spend them more wisely on a lot of other things, because we don't miss the idea, thank God. In these concessions, it is necessary to be careful. If we are talking specifically about the concession for the use of mining wealth in this area, I think that concession was granted at the beginning of 2000 and 2001 and is also due to expire in a good year. My personal assessment is that an investor at this time will not be able to do anything very special here; even colleagues who are proposing this law note that there are no specific places in this area. If we talk to geologists, they will present different aspects of what the potential of this area is, whether it is only from the point of view of hydrocarbon production, or whether it can be used for any other alternative purposes. I'm going to leave this question aside because it's very professional. However, I think we agree that we should not send some signals, that some agreement, some Pacta sunt servanda relationship in Slovenia, does not hold. In doing so, the relationship between the two citizens or between the state and an economic operator. I don't know why you're nodding, but in some regulated countries, concessions mean something, regardless of who gave it to someone, whether it's a foreigner, or whether it's a domestic society. And in this sense, it is also necessary to take into account this fact that, in the meantime, the concession will expire, what is not exactly going to happen in this area. I believe, however, that if we adopt a ban, we will give an excellent starting point to the legal entity or economic entity to challenge the Slovenian state. I have heard very carefully today about what this technology is like around the world and in Europe as well. And they were exposed mainly to countries that banned fracking. What all this prohibition covers, and at this point we do not know, because these technological procedures are relatively complex and complex. For example, in Germany there is low-volume fracking, it can also be called conventional hydraulic stimulation. We don't know if it's fracking, or not fracking, or, say, this bill allows, permits or prohibits. For example, the Germans gain 30% of natural gas, that is, 30% of their domestic production. That's the current information I've been able to find. Practices are therefore quite different. We can, however, at the same time say that we are in favour of a ban and that there is no support for these technologies with negative aspects. But we need to be wise and smart enough to see how we can do this here, not just to protect nature, but in the final stage also the interest of our budget, which should also apply. And once again, the concession will expire in a relatively short period of time and I estimate that no matter the pace of the dynamics of individual investments at that time, the investor cannot do anything very special. However, the fact is that in the past there has been a lot going on in this area, even in the time of Yugoslavia, there has been a negative, or faction, which we have found has a number of negative aspects, which can also be followed by an earthquake. But there were different times and the value of nature, the environment, nature interventions were not so important or the public did not enjoy much support. I would like to highlight here another problem that we have in Slovenia and we will have to deal with it in very short time. It's a question of hydrocarbons. Today, we find that we do not agree that this is some technology that has survived; hence, hydrocarbons as an energy — no. Wind energy, again, we have problems with this, whenever it comes to concrete accommodation in space, we find that it is not; so we do not want windmills. Hydroenergy – we have also shown many times – is a problem from the point of view of spatial interference with nature; hydropower, therefore, is not. Solar energy is expensive because we need to change the network and it also has a number of negative aspects in the production of these cells; so neither does it. Nuclear energy, not again. And then we're running out of energy, so the alternative that we're left with is that we can import energy from abroad; a lot of people will be happy, we'll be a little less dependent, and we'll pay this energy at very high prices. We're going to have to reach some consensus here. And "no" will not answer, we will have to choose something. The fact is, in the previous government, the State Mining Strategy was adopted, where hydrocarbons were defined as the raw material of strategic importance; and we know where they are obtained – in the northeast of Slovenia. What the former government or what the ministers thought in there, how we're going to get these hydrocarbons, I don't know. It may be an opportunity for someone to present this, but we know who was sitting in the government at the time, we know who the ministers were, who were directly associated with these departments, and we also know who the other ministers were, so I am surprised and surprised by this facility from two years ago. And I think you should surprise everyone. But this is not an obvious, I just want to point out that this is very delicate and in the final stage also an expert and, above all, a technical issue that we must not solve in an eco-populistic way, because we will do more harm than good. That's why I'm gonna figure it out. I think we all have the same goal, but the way to get to that goal is we see each other a little bit on our own. I would suggest that when we go into such a very strict or harsh ban, we do not have a clear picture of the consequences. In the final stage, I also described the financial implications, but not only the financial consequences, because I have explained this broader context mainly from the perspective of the duration of the concession as such and the assessment that at that time something essential cannot happen; but let us be blue in this sense. I still have no answer as to whether the ban on fracking also means banning hydraulic stimulation, or not. We are opening up a number of questions that we do not have an answer to, and this is a delicate technical question. I would like the government in particular to come up with a solution that will be supported by a number of experts and for which the government will also be responsible in the final stage. Because we are now taking certain risks that we will potentially put into the state budget. However, if we look at the bill, there are no financial consequences for the adoption of this law. And let's face it, there are risks, there are. Whether we are willing to go to that risk, it is possible to create for this economic entity from nothing — yes, let us say — financial benefit only because it is a foreigner, where I do not know where it comes from. I don't even know him, I don't even know who he is, I haven't read anything about him; but I've tried to create an opinion that's reasonable and weighty, which takes into account many aspects. Yeah, we're absolutely protecting nature, but let's do it in some thoughtful way, not in horror, a little bit of thought. Today it is very grateful to talk about nature, but we must do so in some smart and thoughtful way that we will not do more harm than good with one move. And it's a shame to all of us, but it's also a benefit to some of the selected ones in the final phase that some of you like to demonize in here. If I'm finished with the police protections or the threat of life, when we heard it again today. In Slovenia it became a threat to the death of something completely normal. We often look at this in the form of a variety of passwords, we know where; then there is no one, if I say from home, much confusion. But I closely monitored what was going on and what the police said about this protection of the minister you're talking about. And the police said there was no such thing as protecting the minister or his family members. That's not my point of view, but this is police communication. And I think it's harmful and it's wrong or it's confirmed that a hundred times a lie becomes the truth. Let's calm this rhetoric down a little bit. I think it'll be good for everyone. Let us focus primarily on what will help us all together not to create problems, but, above all, to find solutions. And if I finish, I think we all have the same goal. But we are only different in how to get to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Ms Nataša Sukić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Well, that's what it was. Look. Ecopopulists, if I understand correctly, are therefore the municipal councilors of the municipality of Lendava, who are literally calling, are signaling us to Ljubljana to prevent fracking. Ecopopulism – said a colleague. We are talking about obvious environmental issues that can become a very crucial problem if something goes wrong. And he calls it ecopopulism. That's what colleague Anja Bah Gibert would say: Shame, shame, shame. How, then, can I understand your position, perhaps as corporate populism, when you advocate so much that we have to stick to the agreement?Oh, my God! The concession agreement was concluded in 2001. In 2001, there was still no negative experience of fracting around the world in such a way that someone would pay attention to it. A colleague from Alenka Bratušek explained this to you nicely. Awareness of environmental problems, what the consequences of certain technologies are accumulated over the years and with experience. And experience around the world shows that fracking is a very problematic method. And in the case of Groningen, we have proven that it is completely comparable to the Petišovci, concerning the composition of the soil, that this can be a very serious problem. And then he's talking to his buddy about discipline. What have we been through at Disciplin und Ordnung, or what, pal?Oh, my God! That's actually crazy. And I'll tell you. Previously, you manipulated that in Croatia, see, the NGO Friends of the Earth says that fracking has already banned or frozen many more European Union Member States, as mentioned here today. Among them, I will list: Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia – interesting for Friends of the Earth to report on this, and today you leave it to Croatia – Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Lithuania, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Spain, Slovakia and Sweden. All these countries have either banned or frozen fracking. Then a fellow here exercises again with these magic formulas of hydraulic stimulation, which is not fracking. Excuse me, what was experimented in Petišovci at a depth of 3,000 500 meters was a purely classic cracking. And I don't care where you found some different hydraulic stimulation. What will happen if you give that last permit, which is still missing, and even if it happens one year, forgive me, it does not say anywhere that in that year there will not be catastrophic and disastrous consequences in the first place for human health, for the sensitive Biosphere Area of Mura, is said to be an environmental pearl for us, which can be used for some sort of natural development and for some other purpose; not to destroy it. Destroy; to stick to the 2001 concession agreement?Oh, my God! It's like we don't have the right to think about it on the basis of the facts that have happened with the cracking. That's why we're here, and we're taking laws. If they've ever made a mistake, and what, now we'll be waiting for this mistake to turn into a disaster. Please. Even if they have this concession permit by 2022, we are now in 2020. It's been there, excuse me, for over a year. And if you will now, as I see you now, when you're literally buying an argument from a dispossessing corporation that dared threaten Minister Lebn. You said it was a lie. A lie that, if I repeat it now, will turn into the truth? Minister Leben said that. I'm sorry. This corporation threatened Minister Lebnu, and you're bowing to this corporation. You're amazing. And you do not hear what the Lendava congregation has told you about the people who live there and who will be the first and only to be harmed if anything happens. I'm not saying what's going to happen, but I've shown you clearly before. If at a depth of 3,000,500 meters, there is a leak of these toxic substances under pressure, because these are enormous pressures, then there is no way to solve this. Then the groundwater will be poisoned, the water will be poisoned. And people have the right under the Constitution to clean drinking water. Then you will destroy this environment. And I'm not talking about the priceless damage you're going to cause to the Biosphere area of the Wall. Do you realize how much we will pay for the treatment of people who will experience the consequences of such a disaster if it occurs, and how we will never again have the Biospheric Zone of the Wall? And these are such priceless numbers, invaluable that – sorry, this shaking before possible compensation – we are not even talking about this pathetic blackmail of a corporation. Not to mention that you probably haven't even looked at it in the first place, but what if you were to step away from the Energy Charter, just like Italy and Russia did. What about this, or have you examined the consequences of what this would mean? Then this corporation could no longer plant us in front of any of the arbitrators. Let's get a little deeper into different options, not that your only option is – let's give people and the environment a little bit of patience, even if there's no profit, because it doesn't matter. Ninety percent of them are going to hit this one, 90 percent. Not to discuss that this has nothing to do with our energy self-sufficiency; literally nothing will contribute to this. Not to mention, it's fossil fuels. When we should now start leaving them, in accordance with international agreements, in line with the upcoming climate crisis that is ahead of us, within 10 years we could have a global situation, you would be going smoothly into the fact that some Ascent Resources can acquire fossil fuels with extremely controversial, extremely dangerous methods. This is the wrong world. And then my friend Perič here is going to explain such nonsense to me as if I'm an ecopopulist now, because that's what I'm saying. Then, excuse me, all the scientists who warn about what fossil fuels mean are ecopopulists themselves. We're all a little crazy and just corporations rule the world. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I ask that we stick to a court-martialed debate. My friend Perich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u130	Thank you. I think that patronizing posture was superfluous. You can read the magnetogram and see if I mentioned anyone. But if you've found yourself in this ecopopulism or not, I don't know. I leave this to every individual to their discretion. I want to say this; if you would listen a little bit more – and I have offered you certain arguments, but at the same time I have listened very carefully to your arguments – and if you could make a combination of all the arguments here, you could also take some steps forward. But you obviously didn't listen to me. My arguments were of no interest to you, Mrs. Sukič. And I think there's some damage here. And in the final stage, I didn't deny anyone would threaten. But all I said was that threats, such and different, when we operate on death, have become part of our daily life, some of our normality; and that's not right, that's not good. But I mentioned the police, so the police weren't involved at the time, which the police themselves denied. And I said something else that I don't think there's a place here, that with some quick moves we're allowing the conditions for individual economic operators to be given a basis to gain some benefit or to make the state's legal situation worse in these relations. If you see it as my cheering for a particular company, a corporation, whatever we call it, then it's hard for me to help you here. I just wanted to have an objective view. And as we say, in the SMC, we're not inclined to crack, but we're only different by how to get to the same goal. We can do this here, I don't know what the controversy is, you can accuse me, you can also give me some perspectives, but this negative atmosphere in here is extremely burdensome. I don't know how we're going to work together, work together and look for solutions, whether it's an environment, a social area or something else. I would suggest that we all listen a little more carefully and, above all, look for what unites and unites us; not what separates us. I know I'm gonna get a rap sheet again, and I'm not even gonna get a chance to call back. But thank you very much, at least I tried. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u131	Thank you. Ms. Natasa Sukić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u132	Dear colleague Perič, I have listened very carefully to you and this relativization of the problem is worrying. And your suggestions may be fatal. An accident may or may not occur within a very short period of time if a cracking occurs before the end of this concession. If you do not give permission to Ascent Resources by 2022, this corporation will sue you anyway, because this corporation has already announced the action on the basis that it should have obtained an environmental permit at all. This corporation does not want to obtain an environmental permit. Why? Because he knows what the problem is with this method that he's using to acquire this energy. Dear fellow, I have listened to you very well, and I will not say anything to you now as you have foretold. But tricking you into just suggesting another way up and down. You don't even know if there's a fracturing, or even if it's only going to take six months, by the end of this concession, there can be a disaster that will be so fatal that it won't be able to recover. It will be at least fatal for the environment and, most likely, for the health of the surrounding population. And if you don't understand why the surrounding population is calling here in Ljubljana, stop fracking, then I don't know who you're actually hearing. Do you think that the fact that you now have a majority in Parliament means that you have all the power of this universe in your hands and that you are not obliged to listen to people, whether they are from Prekmur or from all over the country? In this case, they're from Prekmur. You owe it to your fellow Members on the other side and stop turning your actions or making bad decisions into insults; because you have been offensive, my colleague, that you have literally declared us eco-populists. You said I recognized myself in this. No, you've made it a little different, of course, to talk about it today is ecopopulism. No, it's not ecopopulism, my esteemed colleague. In 2001, there was a different situation than today – in 2020. And as I've already explained to you, there have been a lot of insights on the basis of the events that have taken place with regard to fracking, both with fracking in slates and with sandstones. There won't be any water here either. I know that corporations are saying that this is mainly happening in America, where there is a different composition. But it also happens where there is a composition like that in Petišovci. And it is no coincidence that so many of the countries of the European Union that I have listed to you before have either completely banned or frozen fracking. And, among them is obviously Croatia, as Friends of the Earth say, I don't know where you got that, it's not, it's to be checked, but Friends of the Earth in my opinion know more about it than we all know now, because it's just a deep deal. And they certainly don't invent that kind of information. And as we say, it doesn't matter what is in Croatia or Hungary; it's important what will happen in Petišovci, what will happen to us. We are primarily obliged to protect our national interests, not some of the interests of some pathetic corporation that dares, even with criminal arrests, to capture our state officials and even the former minister. Well, that's amazing. And you still don't have a problem with that, and even if there were no other questions at all, we could have it from this address. What does that even say, or are we even a country?Oh, my God! But can we protect our vital national interests? Can we protect our people, our people's health, and our environment? Will we sell for a dime of the ten percent that we would get from the profits there? Ten percent! We are, well, I don't have any more words. Dear colleague Perič, there is no other way than to ban fracking law. It's the only way if we want to have 100% protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Replica, Comrade Perich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u134	Thank you. I'll be right back. I also heard in the debate today that Arso must not give permission. This is an interesting hypothesis when we talk about having some agencies that have to be independent; and then we hear here, in the National Assembly, how someone has to decide. Put it in context. We need to be very careful, and I trust in our institutions, our agencies, even Arso, to do what has to be done, in accordance with the acts in force. And once again, we all have the same goal, but we see different paths. And I would appeal to all to choose a path that will be good not only for nature, but which does not expose the risks to the budget as such and does not put the country in – legally speaking – an inferior position. I think it must be in everyone's interest to get back to the same goal. We can speak a different language and I am sorry that we obviously don't hear each other or we don't want to hear each other, but I think the difference is practically minimal. But we can insist, and we can't reach the goal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u135	She has a colleague, Natasa Sukič, as her proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u136	Dear colleague Perich, please. I didn't say Arso couldn't. What are you talking about? I said that Ascent Resources didn't want it to even come to that they needed that permission. I said something else entirely. You're lying again. I didn't. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u137	Please, colleague, let's talk a little more respectfully.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u138	plugs into Ars' independence. [[…]] I didn't get involved in Ars' independence, I didn't. Please, Arso will do his job as he will, and no one is involved. I don't know what you're talking about. And about some minimal difference and different paths. There's no minimum difference, Your Honor. What you're saying is a catastrophically big difference. You'd just let the fracking take place there. And we say we can't let him. That's a huge, huge difference. This is a complete contradiction to what you would have allowed. Let's stop fooling around. And once again, I know what you're suggesting somewhere between the lines – yeah, let's put up with it until this concession runs out. But until then, there's still time. And if they start cracking for a while, there could be a disaster. Proven because it's happening all over the world. And it's not ruled out that we won't have it either. If you think this little time gap is a guarantee that it won't happen; it isn't. It may not be, I'm not saying it will, because I'm not a prophet, but the evidence shows that it can happen. And if it happens, the disaster will be much bigger than some Ascent Resources threat with some arbitration over there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u139	The word is Primoz Siter. Prepare Soniboj Knezak and Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Greetings from me, colleagues and colleagues! Thank you for your word, President. The first thing we need to understand here is that the right to life in a healthy environment is a constitutional category. The right to live in a healthy environment for each of us, whether we are at home in Ljubljana, whether we are at home in Zasavje, Prekmurje, Petišovci, Koroškem or anywhere. It's a constitutional category. This is the first thing policy must provide for citizens and citizens. But in the final stage, there's a prerequisite for anything else. And let me speak with two addresses about my reflection on this subject of fracking in Petišovci. First, as a member of one of the most environmentally progressive political powers in the country; on the other hand, as someone who has been observed the format ecopopulist, eco-terrorist, environmental activist and Sasavčan have already participated n-time. No, I'm not moved because we know that the things that we report on this proposal are based on science. And science is the one who is still making progressive movements in the world. I am pleased that we are participating, at least indirectly or directly, in this meeting, of all the Members of the Union. Here is our comrade Željko from the degraded Celje, where we have a Member from Koroška and so on. Each of us has some experience about how dialogue works, the local community, concerned about environmental awareness or the health-awareness of the individual on the one hand, and the corporation on the other. The case that I have personally from Zasavje is the co-incineration of hazardous waste in the Lafarge Cement cement plant. The way this British corporation addresses the state, the public, and obviously also representatives of some political options, is by copying the paste of what all corporations are doing that are doing environmentally suspicious business. I didn't hear anything from those English frackers. Nothing. They found one region, which is socially deprived, so they can come with an argument – Hey, jobs, hey, investments, we'll come here, we'll bring in a few more children's games, but they're the main emperors. [[…]] That's the mode of surgery. They offered jobs, cooperation with the local community, solving some social problems, social exclusion of the region, and finally that part of Slovenia will be able to reach the country's energy map or Europe. These are all these fine arguments, the bright arguments they come with; parallel ground pear war, the discreditation of activists and all those who dare to speak in the name of science or the concern of local people and residents. This lawsuit, which is here in the air, surprises me nothing at all, is a perfectly logical step in this communication or in this blackmail. We're all united in one conclusion. Fracking — fact is — is a harmful method. No one said, even the customers in their positions, who may be inclined out of some caution to not support it now; you all said – because we understand that fracking is a difficult and environmentally controversial method. The consequences of fracking are clear. Earthquakes, we've heard about the region in the Netherlands, if I'm not mistaken. The leakage of methane, which environmentalists report is more environmentally severe than burning coal, not to mention the effects of fracking on groundwater, on drinking water. We're talking about water, access to drinking water. At this point, take a look at the Sokka Valley, what's going on in Anhovem. Who provides drinking water, constitutional justice? Local fire company with tanks. Not to mention agricultural land, because this part of Slovenia is, as far as agricultural production is concerned, the richest, most fertile part of the country, because we are partly dependent on this part of the country. And now we're gonna leave these garbage in the middle of the most fertile land. Well, that's crazy. Thinking that fracking is of any use to the state and citizens is madness. In fact, it's a waste of all this time we're spending here, but it's obvious that these arguments have to be put on the table. so that if pinpointam – fracking is harmful. We are all clear, nothing positive will bring, except, of course, the profits of this corporation, which will also not generate anything in our budget through taxes, because we hear that it has its seat in some tax haven. In fact, no one's gonna get anything from her work over taxes. But the problem that needs to be highlighted here, I can understand this corporation and their capital running, the capital appetite, the opportunity they see in Slovenia for this controversial practice. But I don't understand the politics we're sneezing. Why? From an environmental point of view, we are indeed in the midst of social, health, economic and other crises. But the most pressing crisis we have been facing right now and for the past few years is the environmental crisis, my dears. Let's not forget. The search for solutions to the environmental crisis and the reduction of its impacts is what today, in a global policy measure, is divided among advanced and mature countries. Among those who want to keep something for their craftsmen and for those who care and are only interested in commission from this particular business. And this law, this law – the ban on fracking – is that language on the scale that outweighs whether we as a state and society among progressive world powers recognize the risk of fracking and its harmful place in the climate crisis, or whether we are among those healed countries that say – Ah, the main thing is to earn; regardless of human health, environmental health and climate. And as if we could joke on those sides of the meadow – Last time I checkeded, in Slovenia we committed ourselves to respecting the Paris climate agreement, which is not just a document, but a binding international declaration on the sending of the climate crisis. And I would like to ask the representative of the Ministry, who is not in the Chamber, while we are discussing Members, how allowing such environmentally harmful methods fits in the context of the achievement of the objectives of the Paris Climate Agreement. In what way? In what way will it help us achieve our goals in limiting the rise in average global temperatures, the limitation of human greenhouse gas emissions and so on? The list of commitments under the Paris Agreement is long. I, too, will now lean on the implementation of Member Perič or his Pacta sunt servanda, yes, the agreements are respected. Let's respect the Paris climate agreement and say – Here, fracking doesn't fit. As far as we are concerned about Latin language – Facta, non verba, let us do this. What do we do? What do we do? What do we say? Marriage — Will It Be, Will It Be, Will It Be? No, let's do it. Are we, or aren't we? Before I conclude my very clear criticism of the government's serviceability to this British capital, it is necessary to translate my concern or warning. If we let fracking happen, it'll be very bad, no matter what time schedule the contractors choose with the concessions. Fracking has to be banned. It doesn't matter whether this concession expires or not; fracking is bad. Fracking is bad because in the region he will not bring the new jobs he promises. If I go back to the beginning, all major investors in Zasavje and in any other degraded area have never fulfilled their social promises. Prekmurje will be another desolate and degraded area, such as Zasavje, such as the Celje Cauldron, as we have in Koroška, everywhere in the country, we will now have another. The profits, as they say, will go to Great Britain, we will not get anything from him, nothing. Slovenia will obviously be on that international political list of Wall of Shame, where Trump also took the United States of America by ignoring the Paris Agreement. We'll have another degraded area. The budget, as we say, will have nothing; we will have earthquakes. And also in Petišovci, firefighters will be able to drive drinking water to Petišovčany and Petišovci. That's what awaits us by allowing the fracking. Look, fracking is bad in a global sense, fracking is a politically bad idea, fracking is a bad idea for human health, for environmental health, for health Prekmurčank and Prekmurčany. And as an environmental activist, as a member of the Left, I cannot support him in any way, I cannot tolerate him. The only solution – an urgent solution – is to say no, support this law and simply ban it regardless of concessions or expiration date. Either we are healed; or we are progressive. The environmental policy of the Republic of Slovenia currently stands on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Soniboy Prince has the word. Get ready, Joseph Horvat, then Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u142	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This topic today, at least as far as I'm concerned, is relatively simple. Today we have a proposal for some legal changes, where we also have the opportunity to move from words to actions. Whether we will stand on the one hand in the protection of the natural environment and of the natural environment, of course, in the middle of our citizens and citizens. Indirectly, we have approached the environmental goals that we have addressed several times in these weeks or months, which are very ambitious, but if we do not move from words to actions, we will not achieve them. If I have understood the government correctly and the coalition has somehow claimed that the matter must be resolved systematically. I don't see any problem here. Let us accept the ban today, and the government can also draw up a larger system of arrangements in the coming months, where it is likely to settle another matter. Fracking – no problem, it will not be the first time that we have upgraded legislation. I don't see any problem. I don't know what you're so worried about. One is the concern of the government, but I do not understand the Members and Members. Members of the coalition were probably elected in Slovenia, not in the UK. Comrade Periè or someone, it has been mentioned several times that agreements are respected. Yes, remember, two years ago we made promises to the voters and voters in our country to represent their interests; not the interests of foreign corporations, but capital. Really unnecessary, I see no reason why technology, which is environmentally controversial and is also legally prohibited in many countries, puts an additional burden on our environment. If I only go to data on the estimated amount of gas to be pumped in Petišovci and the fact that at least 90% of all revenues will go to the British corporation, and production itself would not cover the poor 10% of Slovenian natural gas consumption, that is just another argument that we will not allow this to happen. Not to mention everyone else, because we have already repeated ourselves today – the use of large amounts of water, the risk of contamination of drinking water, groundwater, the release into the atmosphere – these are enough reasons. My friend Siter mentioned the earthquakes. We're both coming from Zasavje. We have hundreds of kilometers of trenches under the sussava, hundreds of meters underground, the entire centre has felt these detonations, and I will not talk about the consequences, the degradation of the environment, the rehabilitation that we will have to deal with for decades; I am not saying that we have made it completely difficult to stay because of the geological composition of these soils in our country. These are the darkness and fear that have now come to the fore of the people of Petišovci. Water. We are not aware that we are probably one of the few privileged people in the world who can still drink clean tap water. We'll put this on the table. I don't think I see any need at all in this case. To be honest with you, let’s pour ourselves some pure wine. Today’s background is, of course, large financial interests. The case of the Petišovci, in particular these foreign corporations, which carried out a series of pressures on procedures and also on those responsible in the process of seeking authorisation. I will not repeat, several times already said today – Minister Leben. My friend Periè, he came from your kind. I think he was one of the better ministers. I'm sorry he left politics because he was an operative. I thought he was one of the few operative ministers. Not to mention, as my colleague Sukič said today. What matters to me is that the local community opposes it. This is also opposed by a number of NGOs that have stepped in to protect the environment and health of people. I don't know what we're dealing with here, I don't know. I'll finish. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are not large and will never be important in the field of some energy sources. But we have a beautiful land, rich, with many pristine natures, lush forests, many water resources. Let's keep them safe. Of course, I will vote in favour of the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic. Get Franci Kepa ready as the last.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Madam President. And I will start my debate today with the question why we have a country. Do we have a country because of all citizens and citizens, as well as in the Constitution, or because of private, mostly foreign interests? Then I will ask myself who rules Slovenia. In view of what has been heard so far, threats to ministers and so on – who rules? According to the Constitution, people have power in Slovenia. Apparently, some corporations rule, the invisible deadline of the market is sometimes referred to as those who don't pay taxes here or here; they have seats in some tax havens. But that is why we have gained our independence, and I ask you: you who are so eager to boast and even the museums of this disaster, which we have accumulated in the 1930s, would set up. On what basis is this government — and I have listened very carefully to a government representative who, unfortunately, has not been in the Chamber for most of the time — and I also think he is not listening because the phone is more interesting — on what basis did this government decide to reject our proposal? I'm interested in arguments. I would also like to know if this fracking is really environmentally acceptable in Petišovci, why most European countries are then barring fracking with themselves, with England, and we are pleased to have it. And by the Constitution, of course, we have the right to a healthy environment and to clean drinking water, but I see that this government does not respect it. This reminds me of some documentary films that we used to watch, what happened, say, in India, Africa, or America, when big corporations came in. Their territory, where people lived, where they worked, died, came because it was rich with anything, ore, gold, and so on; and they took away everything they had, left them sick, exhausted, and departed. And whether we too will be such a country in the middle of the European Union that we will not be able to stand up for ourselves and be left to some imperialist interests for mercy and mercy. I stress that more than 16 European countries reject fracking in their territory. Why is she rejecting him? As mentioned earlier — because of earthquakes. Why is she rejecting him? Climate change. We signed a Paris climate agreement. And as my colleague Perič said, agreements need to be respected. Fracking contributes to the climate crisis. Scientists agree that most known fossil fuel reserves must be left in the country if we are to prevent dangerous levels of global warming. However, fracking is a major problem that contributes to climate change, including methane leakage, even though there is no agreement on how much methane in cracking can enter the air; but studies show that methane leakage can be worse than coal burning. Then there's the negative impact on water. Examples from abroad show that near fracking sites, groundwater and drinking water pollution are perceived as the consequences of fracking. Methane leakage into water is also common. Then there is a poor impact on the air, as fugitive emissions may contain methane, volatile organic compounds, benzene, toluene, formaldehyde and dust particles. Methane emissions released during fracking contribute significantly to the warming of the atmosphere. It has a negative impact on the landscape and ecosystems, it can cause erosion. Due to the spillage and spillage of chemicals, the fragmentation of habitats, the loss of areas and thus further adversely affecting the health of wildlife. It has a negative impact on waste, because there are several types of waste in the cracking process, and the biggest impact is on the drilling process and waste water. It is said that waste mud produced by drilling contains toxic ingredients such as barite, hydrocarbons, radioactive substances and heavy metals. And now I'm asking you if you can afford all this for the Prekmurks. On behalf of who are we sitting here? As the colleague mentioned earlier, you were not elected in England, but I believe that certain corporations are helping certain parties to come to Parliament and get the majority, because they are probably financed because they say that they believe that this new government will be more relentful to their problems. We work for people, and it is therefore necessary to discuss once and for all whether we should work in Slovenia for the public interest, the interest of people and all the people and residents of Slovenia; or whether for the interests of some foreigners who will come, they should pick up what they will like and leave. It is unacceptable that we have actually witnessed Mafia methods and threats to the Minister for Environment and Space and that he has flown away, according to the household, because of this. We should have sounded all the alarms by then and said, and that's not what we're going to do, because we're a sovereign state. Here we hear, first of all, Restoration measured everyone who cared about the environment, with eco-terrorists, now we hear from colleague Perič that we are eco-populists. And what else are we gonna do? In short, in the worst environmental crisis that awaits us and the whole world knows what the biggest crisis is, besides health and economics, one deals with eco-terrorists and populists. Shame. Shame, shame, shame. And we have also heard in Mr Perič's position the sentence that I have just written: We support the ban on fracking, but we do not support the law on the prohibition of fracking. Please, where are we?Oh, my God! I'd say something, and I'll stay here and try to be more politically correct. In short, it is horrendous and unacceptable that in fact most decisions have been made since we have this extreme right government, past the public, there is no public debate and whenever we try to propose to the opposition what will be good and useful for the environment, people and the people of this country, we are gravely rejected. As we said before, we have a command, you have a coalition commander who you call a voting discipline. Young Mr Perič calls it order and discipline. You know, SMC came to this parliament with promises, and that's why he won the previous elections, the rule of law. And then he said that we had to respect our commitments, I don't know who, abroad, while he was selling everything we had. In short, it is unacceptable that we have our own country, but we treat it as if we were in a third world where anyone who comes can afford to take whatever he wants and with the people and the environment we have to do what he wants. Absolutely me as an environmental customer, which Levi is, as a green party, we will every time we remind ourselves of all these things. And every time we fight for the right of people to a clean living environment, because we have this written down in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u145	Thank you. As the last one, he's got the word Franci Kepa.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nicely greeted, fellows! Our party has stated that we are in favour of the preparation of the law, as the government has said, by the new year and that there are substantial reasons for addressing some of the shortcomings of the current law, and that the full exploitation of mining, Petišovci and other mining exploits will also be demonstrated. I want to know why there's so much opposition because it wasn't in the past. In 2002 this concession was already granted; in 2018 you were in the previous government, where you are now the same, which you now most opposed, accepted together that this mining opportunity is also used. Our client is not for us to gain, nor has she said this, but there must be a common strategy and it must be decided on. However, since the concession is awarded every two years, the first two years are called to be obtained, and there are opportunities to exploit it; then two years later, when another government is a government, it is opposed and the directional order is diverted to the opposite; and this is not likely to be credible for a country of the European Union. Since a concession was granted to someone, the left government granted the concession to take advantage of the opportunity in the vicinity of the Petišovci. This company hasn't even started to exploit it yet, it's still getting all the permits, the last permits are from Ars for environmental impact. And we cannot change these matters every year, because we are not credible if we give our consent to someone for exploitation when he gets or does not gain an environmental consensus. If he doesn't get an environmental consensus, he won't be able to exploit it. But we can't change this ad hoc every year, we have to be somehow credible and show some real evidence. As shown, each intervention in nature, including this exploitation, as shown by the fracking case, is a number of exploits. Fracking is some kind of intervention in nature, is some exploitation and later possibility of an earthquake activity or some kind of intervention. This is like all other uses, in hydropower plants, some interventions are in nature, although it is then said that in hydropower plants there are still parallel things or main things, they say that flood benefits are for an environment. In hydropower plants, too, there is a very large intervention in the land where hectares for each hydropower plant are affected by exploitation and pollution. Just like the wind power plants. With us, we're specific in all of Europe, there's some rejection once because of the birds, and secondly, I don't know who we can't build wind power plants. We have fields nearby, in Hungary, in Austria, in Croatia, if we go to Dalmatia, there are wind fields that we see, there are dozens more every year. And the only thing in Slovenia is the problem of exploitation because I don't know who, because of the environmental burden, I don't know who. Of course, every matter is an intervention in nature. However, there is a need to find some balance for the exploitation and well-being of people for the use of energy, including benefits from the use of gas, oil or energy. If we grant someone a concession to use it, we can't make it a concession this year and take it away from him next year. Please. Your government, two years ago, you were still in favor of making use of it up there. However, since 2002, it has been through Geoenerga to allow a company abroad to exploit and try to extract and exploit gas. I'm not going to say that this is what our client is defending, but we still have to be principled in some way, and we can't change this every year. Therefore, it is also said that by the new year, or in the short term, the government will also accept this structure and nature protection and mining; and see what will be good for the near future for the country. I don't think just principled opposition is good. These are the very parties you are now opposed to, you were a while ago. The issue should also be proposed by the Government in the near future, whether the company will receive the environmental consensus given by the Slovenian institutions [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u147	Sorry, time's up. Procedurally has a colleague Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u148	Thank you, President, for your word. I don't want to be a picolovian, but it says on the screen that Mrs Lidija Ivanuša speaks, and Mr Kepa spoke. Apparently, there are some problems. Please, if you can fix this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u149	We have found that the wrong card has been filed, but it does not play a role for the parliamentary hour alone. My colleague Violeta Tomić, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u150	Mr. Kepa obviously didn't stick to what this is about, nor does he have the right card to sit here and talk about windshields and I don't know what. In short, not every government is a left-wing government that is not an SDS government. Let's just get this straight. And we were never for cracking. We are never in Levica for environmentally harmful investments, never because we are eco-socialists. I will repeat this to you as long as it takes for you to remember, and slowly if necessary. A concession may have been granted in 2002. You talk – we change every year. Let me guess, how long has it been since 2002? 18 years. In the meantime, the Paris Climate Agreement was signed, and Slovenia also signed it. 18 years ago, the world, the globe looked different, there were not so many greenhouse gases. Over the past 18 years, so many countries are aware that we have to accede to the Paris climate agreement, that we need to reduce greenhouse gases and that we need to be more attentive to the environment. If that is not clear to you and if you deny climate change, then we can also believe that the Earth is flat and go back 100 years. However, we are currently living in 2020, where the climate is one of the worst problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Ms. Natasa Sukić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u152	Yeah, I'll be pretty quick. Dear colleague Kep, you do know that you haven't always listened to what we're talking about here because you've been talking about a bunch of things that have nothing to do with it. You even put windmills, hydropower plants and fracking in the same line. Then you talked about credibility, if we weren't credible, if we were to ban ourselves from cracking by law. But then 16 European countries, which either banned or gave moratoriums on fracking, were unworthy? Among them is France, Great Britain, where Ascent Resources comes from. Are these the most reputable countries? What is the credibility of the state? By sticking to the international agreements we signed as a country, such as the Paris Agreement; or by sticking to the 2001 concession agreement, if I am not mistaken, or by some corporation that dares to threaten the minister in a Mafia way in the meantime? You tell me if that's credibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Rudy Bear has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u154	Thank you, President. It seems a little silly to me that we are constantly moving this – your government, our government; but I must answer my respected colleague. Because when someone makes a noise, it just keeps rolling, rolling, which is not true. It is not true that the government of Marjana Šarca was for cracking in Petišovci or elsewhere in Slovenia. This is a simple fiction, which is, of course, completely contrary to what was actually happening, what kind of battle was the Minister of the Environment and Space of Jura Leben precisely because of the opposition to this cracking in Petišovci. Finally, the Director of the Environment Agency was the victim of all of this because, under the Ministry of Jureta Lebna, there was a lot of evidence in the internal audit that went wrong in the efforts of a foreign investor to obtain an environmental permit. And this repetition is actually already at the edge of the impertinent, if someone starts something, then it's rolled and rolled. But I will, in speaking of this, your government, our government; the government of Marjana Sharca has been definitely from the beginning and all the time against the cracking, and the government of Janez Janša has no position, and there is no point at all. The king's government had it, and it was clear: but he had it not.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. Would you like a word from the government? [[No, no, ……]] A representative of the proposer? Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u156	According to these debates, in other words, the silence of coalition Members and Members, except for one and the same exception as on the Committee, was once again marked by the addition of even Member Kep, who unfortunately, as we have heard, did not follow the debate at all times, because you were actually saying things to resolve the matter in your roof law. You won't because you don't have that in there at all, as far as I know. Fracking doesn't, you'll be solving other things. And if I finish. It is absurd that more and more European countries are actually taking a decision to ban fracking or at least to freeze fracking. I told you which ones I gave you earlier. I think there are 16 of them in the European Union right now, but I wouldn't. We wouldn't. And also the UK, from which the Ascent Resources Corporation came, adopted last year a complete moratorium on the implementation of fracking. Why? Because they protect their own people because they protect their own environment. Ascent Resources, therefore, must not carry out cracking at home because the British government simply forbids them to do so. We therefore give the ruling coalition another option with our proposal. Another chance to hear the calls from Lendava. The municipal councillors in Lendava decided they didn't want a fracking. Local people, our people are calling you – for God's sake, ban, stop fracking. The fact is, fracking has to be legally prohibited. This is the only guarantee and safeguard that we do not face an environmental disaster, such as the one seen in various parts of the world, in Groningen, the Netherlands, where this is a comparable situation, such as in Petišovci. Fracking has nothing to do with windmills or hydropower plants, which is an extremely invasive, dangerous method that can be turned into an uncontrollable disaster if there is an accident at the depths, as in the case of Petišovtev – 3 000 500 meters, into something that can then be cured. If there is a leakage of toxic substances into the groundwater, it will no longer be remediable. Fracking is actually illegal. Why? To protect people in Petišovci and in the immediate vicinity to protect the environment and unspoiled nature, in particular the Mura Biosphere Area, which he even recognized as a fugitive in the world and whose priceless natural values are there that we will destroy if an accident occurs. And in particular, to start actually also by abandoning the use of fossil fuels, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and transitioning to a carbon-free society. That's what we owe. We owe this to international agreements and also to the direction of the European Commission, which is moving very rapidly towards green, which is aware of the approaching climate collapse. All this is on the table, respected and respected. And I really don't understand that you're moving in and out of here. To prevent fracking, you are called the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, you are called the local authorities of Lendava, the local population of Lendava, and we call you all those who are aware of what fracking means. We cannot talk on such an immature basis – one is the opposition, and we are now a strong coalition, we have 46 votes, we can do anything. Listen, we are all here together to serve the interests of this country, not the interests of corporations; to serve primarily the interests of the people who sent us here. And it doesn't matter whether we're in coalition or in opposition. Therefore, I ask you kindly, honourable Members and Members of the Coalition, let us listen for once, not to stubbornly insist on the trenches – we against you. We're not against you. We all need to be here for the public interest, for the well-being of our people. Our people are primarily those who need to be protected. In another way, nature, which must be protected, is our nature. It's not for a change to play with such serious things. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u157	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I see there's still interest. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposaler Nataš Sukič and the representative of the Government, please apply with pressure to turn on the microphone. In this case, they get the word as the last or the last; first, the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Four reported. Everyone has five minutes. First he gets the word "Joseph Horvath." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u158	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State Mr Kosorok, dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, thank you to all of you today, I believe, sincerely expressed your concern for Prekmurje. It's rare to hear, and I'm really very happy about it. We joined the map of Slovenia as Slovenians, 101 years ago, when in fact this premur part was preserved after more than 900 years by Catholic priests. Then we hitched a ride in 2008. Thank you, Dr. Andre Bajuk, who was able to build a financial structure and connect Prekmurje to Slovenia through the highway. When we were in the government in 2012, and the right to drinking water was not yet enshrined in the Constitution, we started with the largest cohesion water supply project of Pomurje. Unfortunately, there are quite a few governments, but I have to say this – I know that many people will not like it – then Gorička neglected to drink water today and I believe that we will save this project because it was actually coming from a list of cohesion projects. As far as our view of nature is concerned, the view of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats on the environment – is probably clear to you. Very high on the priority scale we have written down our task of duty and responsibility to nature, to creation, we say. You understand. The ban on the cracking method in Slovenia is inevitable. It is only about how the condition will be fully managed without negative retroactive effects. In this context, let me not be offended by the proposalers, but I trust the Ministry of Infrastructure, which has announced the amendment of the Mining Act by the end of this year. I won't mind if it's by the beginning of next year. More than that, no offense to the proposers who proposed this law prohibiting the production of hydrocarbons by means of a fracturing method in order to prevent the acquisition of mining rights for the use of hydrocarbons by injecting water or water with the addition of chemical impurities. I have believed in the resolution of the European Parliament, which I have been following for eight years. It's clearly written there. In fact, there are no administrative prohibitions, ladies and gentlemen. Some of us who have lived in some past times have determined there how much milk a cow must have. Is that right? Before, Mr. Cigler challenged me where Horvat is from Prekmur because he's silent, don't answer. It's true. I'm sorry. I wasn't here when you called. I also have another obligation. I am first in favour of preventing fracking, as appropriate, within the framework of European Union law and the law of this country. Should I do it again? See, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the resolution of the European Parliament. It would be really good to read it. And I know a lot of these relationships, and I know Geoenergo and Petrol so on – I'm not going to do that now because we don't even have enough time. But you need to take a little look around the country. Let's say Germany. You think they've been there Look, the CDU has been in power for quite some time, there are Christian Democrats, the same values we have and they said, with the change of legislation there has been a fracting on the so-called conventional cracking, which is carried out on sandstones and is allowed, and so-called non-conventional cracking, which is carried out on rock from wing, lapora, clay and coal layers. And it's forbidden! Thank God. This is one such principle, of course we have a slightly different geological structure than the Germans, but in one such way we have to take a legal approach and make fracting impossible once again. However, I am not in favour of the fact that politics now says: this is allowed, this is not allowed. Look, we have environmental organizations here, independent, professional. They probably know a little more about the environment, about the protection of the environment than we do, politicians and let them say what is permitted, what methods are allowed to interfere with the environment and what methods are prohibited. I don't think politics can be made up every day. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The next one gets the word Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u160	Thank you very much. First of all, like this. The profession is already the only one in its cracking criticism, here we are in the clear. Look, colleagues and colleagues. We are at this moment in the midst of a huge environmental crisis that is significantly greater than the health crisis in which we are, from the social crisis, from the economic crisis. The first, most pressing crisis in which we are and which we must face as a matter of priority is the environmental crisis. If there's no healthy environment, it's nothing. And the environmental or climate crisis is the one we must address first and most effectively. In the fight against climate change or climate crisis, all professions and all international environmental organisations, as well as international political connections, which, for example, have joined in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, agree that the main step in saving the planet is to decarbonize or reduce carbon footprint or eliminate fossil fuels as a practical step in this direction. The natural gas produced by fracking is a fossil fuel. Fossil fuels are pumped, defined and sold as a product – and the problem of fossil fuels arises when methane escapes. As the profession says, it has even worse environmental effects directly on the environment than coal burning. Some civilized countries, a broad international community, came to an agreement in 2015 called the Paris Agreement. In the months following the adoption of this Agreement in the National Assembly, Slovenia has also adopted an undertaking to comply with the guidelines of the Paris Agreement and then in 2016, I think that this law or this Parliamentary Agreement has also been approved, published in the Official Journal. My question remains to the representative of the Ministry, I have not yet received the answer – in what way of perseverance or non-criticism at least to fracking, this silence by the Government, this agreement, silent agreement with fracking, how does this go against the agreement that we have committed ourselves to in this institution? So, in what way does opening new fronts to fossil fuels help to respect the Paris Agreement, to reduce carbon footprint, to solve the climate crisis? This is my question to you, Madam Secretary, an hour ago, and I still haven't received an answer. Fracking is a bad idea, climateally poor, and bad for a direct, direct environment in Petišovci in Prekmurje; bad for drinking water, bad idea for fertile land, bad idea for human health. She's only good for the profits of this British corporation. This is how we essentially choose fracking between the health of our people, between the quality of our food and the well-being of our capital. Now, of course, the decision is on the policy side. And the decision is on the policy side!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The word is Franci Kepa. Here you go. Franci Kepa, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye to your colleagues! I will repeat once again that our party has no objection to using it after aggressive gas production, but we cannot change some matters every year. If we gave the concession through Geonergo 2002 and the money was given by the company from England and know-how, two years ago you were left or the Prime Minister, mainly the government accepted it and had no reservations and adopted a mining strategy and it was also written and nothing held back or denied it, it cannot change every year or month. Where were you then? Like last year, or the pre-Last year, or five years ago? Or -- I don't know, you put this in there a month ago. Why didn't you give this one year ago or six months ago? Or maybe half a year ago? What's the strategy now? It's like this government has accepted it. This was not accepted by this government. The former government has accepted it. So you're denying something you've been accepting. It is said that you spit in your bowl at home — is it not? Yeah, well, sometimes it can also change, change a matter, and decide to change, and something comes along, and some bottlenecks, or changes, change. However, if we give someone a concession, we must stick to it. This company acquires an environmental consensus, may not get it, Arso gives this environmental consensus, and if Arso does not give an environmental agreement to obtain these matters, or if Arso does not give in to matters or conditions for exploitation, it will not. I think we are all in favour of having some major consequences against us; against intervention in nature and exploitation of this, but we still have to stick to some matters and principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u163	Thank you very much. As the last candidate, Nataša Sukić. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u164	Look here, my respects! Neither the local population nor the municipal council of Lendava grant concessions to this government to continue to insist on cracking. He won't. Look what they sent a month ago, what they concluded in the Lendava Municipal Council. Then you're saying why didn't Levi put this in before? Left always working consistently on this, look at the history of my oral parliamentary questions, and you'll see that I've been working with fracking since I've been here, in the National Assembly. Why didn't we put in a bill earlier? Because he was a progressive minister of Leben — then a minister — who was such a good minister that we did not have to file such a bill because he wanted to, he resisted it and directed the way to stop the cracking, which was why he was threatened. Once again, I will conclude: experience from many countries shows how severe pollution causes fracking. The consequences of hydraulic crushing are groundwater and drinking water pollution with toxic substances, environmental degradation, earthquake suns when hydraulic crushing itself, such as in the gas field in Groningen. Why am I mentioning Groningen? Because you keep moving around the difference between sandstones and slates, but in Groningen there is a perfectly identical situation as in Petišovci, and there are earthquakes and there the Dutch government ordered that within four years it must stop the cracking, it gave a transitional period to these companies, but it said – the end of the story. By 2022, they have to stop this story. And you would even open it now and support it for a new one, in fact, given that we are ahead of the situation when we could close it – wouldn't you? I told you, not just five European countries, 16 already, which have completely or partially banned fracking, reports Friends of the Earth, read which, I previously stated, I will not do again. In short, and also when colleague Horvat mentioned that our marriage proposal was inappropriate, that it did not comply with European law. Of course, it is in line with European law, as are the laws in conformity in other countries where they have banned it in the European Union! What are you talking about? And that's not true that you're going to include a cracking ban in your marriage. As far as I know, you won't. Fracking doesn't appear in your draft yet. You're going to do other things, and that's not going to be in there. And you even said you weren't supposed to bail me out. Look, we got a partial problem, we got him. Petišovci are threatened, the Mura biosphere area is threatened; yes, colleague Horvat, it is strange how we deal with Prekmurje problem, if you want to suggest that we are otherwise carefree. I grew up myself for the first five years in Prekmurje, so I have, if anything, a special sentiment and a certain affinity, especially until Prekmurje. But not because it's Prekmurje, if cracking was done anywhere else in Slovenia, would behave the same way because I have an environmental consciousness because I am aware of what a precious pearl is our nature, which our country is completely one of rare, yet unspoiled nature. We can't play with this kind of grace that we have. Let's all keep it together, it's our duty and it doesn't matter whether we're left or right, whether you're a coalition and we're the opposition. Look, let's all do something together for the people there in Petisovci. Let us show this unity once and for all, if it is not otherwise, and not in spite of all our efforts, when we work hard at antikron packages to help you make things better, you do not listen to us in anything. You are stubborn for the trenches; you will say what you will say, who you are in the opposition. Well, please, but it's a mature policy!? Politics is one who unfortunately decides one way or another about fate, the lives of people who can make people's lives better or make them bitter. And I take it we're not going to destroy people with some fracking, for example, life if there's an accident there, on behalf of some rejecting corporation who dared to threaten Minister Lebn because he didn't agree to start without having an environmental impact assessment on the environment by carrying out a fracking operation? Can you imagine? That's what they wanted. Why not? Ask yourself, ‘ Why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow, 20. 11th, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law amending the law on the Slovenian Press Agency. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 38 Members and Members with the first-signed Luka Moon. With regard to this bill, a group of 38 Members and Members with the first-signed Luke Moon requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, chairman. On 27 October 2020, we tabled a proposal for a law amending the Law on the Slovenian Press Agency. Prior to this, a proposal for a change following a reduced procedure on the parental committee did not receive sufficient support from the National Assembly. However, the subject of this law or this legal amendment is to include volunteering and non-governmental organisations in the English language as part of the public service prescribed by the Slovenian Press Agency. Under the existing law, STA is obliged to report on voluntary work and on NGOs, but only in the Slovenian language. This novel of the law also extends this part of the public service to translation into English, thus providing information about the situation to the general international public as well as assistance to embassies and embassies in the Republic of Slovenia. With this proposed change, autonomous initiatives are also internationally placed as equivalent and relevant stakeholders in civil society and as one of the foundations of our social organisation and development. STA performs the public service of daily creation, transmission and archiving of news about the events in the Republic of Slovenia and the world in the Slovenian language in the fields of politics, economy, culture, education, health, chronicles, sports, events from the world, science, volunteer work and NGOs, entertainment and other content. The STA also provides a public service for the daily creation, preparation, archiving and transmission of news summaries of the events in the Republic of Slovenia in the English language in the fields of politics, economy, sport, health, culture, education, science, chronicles and other content. In the context of the public service, it also publishes texts of radio news prepared for publication in the radio media as well as copyrighted photographs of the most important events. In the framework of the public service, it must also provide content on the functioning of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities in the Republic of Slovenia, content on the functioning of the Roma ethnic community, content for members of other national and ethnic communities, content for Slovenian national minorities in neighbouring countries, for Slovenes in place and around the world, and in the context of the daily English content service, also for the foreign public in the Republic of Slovenia. It should also provide for the long-term storage of documented and archival materials resulting from the production of various programme content within the public service, in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the management of archival material. The law explicitly provides that the STA shall, in the framework of the public service, distribute the contents free of charge via its website and that they shall be accessible to all under the same conditions. However, the STA Act does not now impose the publication of news in the English language on prostitution and on NGOs. It reports extensively on the functioning of NGOs only in Slovenian media, but not in English, i.e. for the international public, as we refer to in this bill. In short, the aim of this law is to ensure that the international public is informed about developments in the non-governmental sector in Slovenia, about volunteering programmes and projects in many important sectors where they are active, about the events and activities they organise, about achievements, successes and development potentials. The legislative and legal service examined this proposal for a law amending the Law on the Slovenian Press Agency in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u167	Thank you very much. In order to introduce my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr. Ignacija Fridl Jarc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u168	Nicely greeted! Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members! I give the position of the Government on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Slovenian Press Agency. This time in a few months we are discussing the identical text of the novel of the Slovenian Press Agency Act. The government of the novel does not support the law. The existing legislation allows the Slovenian Press Agency to report on all relevant developments in the company and the country of Slovenia in English or in the so-called English Service. We believe that Article 4 does not need to be amended by a dictatorship and an additional eighth indent of the “voluntary work and NGOs” since the existing law is sufficiently broad to date, which content is also provided by the Slovenian Press Agency in the English language within the public service of the Slovenian Press Agency. The article also mentions policy, economy, sport, health, culture, education, science and the eighth indent of the existing law: chronicles and other content. This "other content" dictatorship also includes voluntary work and NGOs and, of course, many other things. Here we are in the field of editorial review and also editorial autonomy, which is considered by the editors of the Slovenian Press Agency in their work. I believe that the journalistic challenge and professionalism are those who marry the Slovenian Press Agency to offer to the foreign public all the rich activity in the field of NGOs and volunteer work, which the editors will assess to be of interest to the foreign public. Foreign public are embassies in Slovenia, foreign press agencies, media in other countries, international corporations, in short all those interested in the event in Slovenia. Our position is therefore that there is no limit to the fact that the Slovenian Press Agency has already included this in its English service, and this is confirmed by the Director of the Slovenian Press Agency, Mr Bojan Veselinović, in the consideration of the same law a month ago in this National Assembly, who also said at the meeting of the Committee on Culture on 7 October that it is already reporting on volunteering and non-governmental organisations in the English language, without this being specifically standardised in law. In the Government we are aware of the importance of voluntary work and NGOs, and the STA would take a very important step if it reported on their work from all regions throughout Slovenia in Slovenian. The bill mentions all the divorcing of NGOs across the country, which of course is true, and these NGOs are enriching our society, so reporting to the Slovenian Press Agency on their work from all over the country would be an extremely welcome upgrade to the current work of the Slovenian Press Agency. Therefore, it should be a priority to consider how to offer more news from the regional environment in the framework of the STA. THE media house is becoming increasingly important in this area, especially if we know that most of Slovenia's daily press has reduced or abolished regional publications and the human resources poor or abolished correspondence. However, in cooperation with local and regional media in order to exchange content and consequently lower the price of their services to customers at local and regional level, STA can, of course, help to preserve the diversity of the Slovenian media landscape. Finally, as regards non-governmental organisations in the field of culture, it is necessary to mention the website in English Culture.si, which also publishes the announcements of events and other texts on cultural developments throughout Slovenia. Many other NGOs, such as the Peace Institute, also have their websites in English and, as has already been said, STA voluntary work and NGOs include in its English service in accordance with the current programme autonomous and editorially independent policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u169	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Lidija savage Mirnik will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u170	Dear Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! The expansion of the range of areas that the Slovenian Press Agency also reports in English is, of course, the only change that we are considering here today. The so-called English Service would also include news of developments related to voluntary work and NGOs, which are huge and very good in Slovenia. A lot of people do what the state should do. In other words, the international public would thus have an insight into another story in Slovenia, which is correct. Why not? We do not see one single reason or another to oppose such a novelty, such as that of enriching the mission of the STA because it does public service. I emphasize the public service; that is, that for the public, not that for the government. Of course, we are not surprised at the LMŠ that the government opposes change. Of course it's against them. However, it opposes everything that strengthens the media economy and media freedom. For both understands it as a threat; the threat in the plan it has, and this is the silence of independent media. They thus add an explanation to their opposition that they are preparing their own law, which – as we read – deals comprehensively with the situation of the Slovenian Press Agency. The changes – I quote from the government record – relate to key areas, as they say. First, from the definition of the activities, secondly, to the financing and principles of the operation of the STA, thirdly, to the procedure for the appointment and discharge of the members of the Supervisory Board and fourthly, the responsible editor. These are the key changes. This is exactly what we fear in the List of Marjan Šarc; these foretold comprehensive changes that the SDS or this government is planning. Change to worse, of course. To the detriment of the public service, to the detriment of journalistic independence and to the detriment of editorial autonomy. Of course we won't let that happen. For Enoch is what you desire, and what you follow in the way of your love of Hungary. We know what the regime did to Slovenia or the press agency there: it was first taken over by staff, set up by these real editors, they were, of course, faithful editors, and they adapted the content. The only thing left is what was favored by the government and what was entrenched with the ruling. Then the news began to offer the house free of charge to everyone. I do not risk much, if not, by predicting that our government is trying to do this or something very similar to the press agency in Slovenia. Then, in the second step, perhaps, let's say, take over other media that are still remaining and that are trying to report independently. Let's not go blind. It is about subjugating all social systems and subsystems in Slovenia. That's what this is about! Now how? Why else would we proceed with procedures for the appointment and discharge of the members of the Supervisory Board and the responsible STA editor? Why, though, at the time of the worst epidemic that he does not know and is unable to control, why should we go to the headship of RTV Slovenia or the demolition of the Director-General a few months before the end of the mandate? I'm sure it's not because I want good because I'm trying to boost public service and support media freedom. I'm sure you don't. On the contrary! He wants unanimity, he wants targeted information, he doesn't like setting the mirror up for his own work, he hates criticism, he hates doubts and he hates plurality of opinions. He wants control of information and its interpretation. He wants the evil image of the emperor, just as we can see it in some — to say the trumpets owned by the largest government party. That's what he wants. Therefore, the time, the respected coalition or, above all, the largest government party is to stop. It's time for sustainability. It's time to get your fingers off the media at least. It is time to start dealing with the epidemic, the consequences of the health and economic crisis and the prevention of the psychosocial crisis. It's time for that. You're dealing with people. Stop doing harm to this country. In the List of Marjan Šarc, of course, we will support the proposal for a law amending the Act on STA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! Let me just say in the introduction that we will support Members and Members of the Social Democrats in the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law amending the Slovenian Press Agency Act is appropriate for further consideration. The purpose of the proposed amendment is to inform the international public about the work of the non-governmental sector in Slovenia, the events of NGOs in Slovenia, the content they offer, and the problems they face in their work of a non-governmental organisation. It is now reported in Slovenian only in the functioning of non-governmental and voluntary organisations. By supplementing the second paragraph of Article 4 of the Act under consideration, the international public would also be informed of the work of voluntary and non-governmental organisations in the English language. This time, the government has drawn up a brief opinion stating clearly that the proposal does not support the law. It does not support the fact that it has already prepared a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Slovenian Press Agency Act, in which the position of the Slovenian Press Agency is considered more comprehensively, as they say. In its opinion, the Government stated that it was an opposition partial change; the Government, whose political parties and Members and Members of Parliament were not included in the first year of the term of this call by the National Assembly, at that time from the position of the opposition, had put in the legislative process proposals for laws with one or two articles – I will not list them here, but they are available for review on our national assembly websites – and almost in every debate they stressed that they have sufficient systemic and integrated regulation of the individual areas. However, times seem to change. The opposition proposal that the Slovenian Press Agency on the functioning of voluntary and non-governmental organisations with a long tradition of working in Slovenia also informs the international public in English is unacceptable and unnecessary for this position, for this government majority. In the absence of the Government's proposal for amendments, we cannot go beyond the question whether the Government may be afraid of the mirrors set up by voluntary and non-governmental organisations and the reflection that indicates the undermining of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental human rights. Above all, is the Government still afraid of being built by the European democratic majority. Respected and respected! During the years of operation, the Slovenian Press Agency has developed into a modern multimedia society which, in addition to the public information service, cares about the information of most national and local media. WHAT has gained a great reputation in its credible work is why we feel that it is right for the Social Democrats to present their work to the international public as much as possible, including with regard to the functioning of voluntary and non-governmental organisations. Finally, let me stress the fear and discomfort of the government before the STA becomes stronger, does not give us excessive optimism that the coalition, when considering the Government's proposal for the STA Act, will perhaps recognise its error and the STA will only allow for further development in the international environment. This is not only the STA, of course, but an extremely worrying trend in government behaviour towards the entire media landscape in Slovenia, which requires all our attention and concern. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u174	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon, everyone! Today we are discussing again the amendment of the STA law, which sends out a single amendment. This is one additional indent, which does not imply any movement of mountains in the substantive sense, does not bring drastic changes, nor does it change the concept of the organisation and operation of the STA. All that is to be achieved with the novel is that the STA will provide future content in the field of volunteering and NGOs in English as well. At first glance, it seems very simple and harmless content, which we consider to be, but the debate on the previous amendment of the STA law with the same content has shown exactly the opposite; too controversial and, above all, our assessment of unfounded arguments against. Let us again remember: the selection of news to be reported by STA in English as well would not be done by the NGO itself or by a voluntary organisation, as for all other areas so far, it would be within the competence of the STA. This only confirms the legitimacy and objectivity of the STA and would also be maintained when providing information in English about the events and achievements of Slovenian volunteering and NGOs. We reiterate that the English-language publications have an important message for all those who may have a positive user experience and an opportunity to transfer good practice to them by the functioning of volunteering and non-governmental organisations. All of this can be seen as a promotion of Slovenian volunteering and NGOs abroad. But, as it turns out, we don't all feel it the same way. From the point of view of defending democratic principles and the plurality of positions in our society, there is nothing wrong with that. However, fear of diversity and plurality may create a problem by hindering social progress and many volunteers and NGOs who perform their work in an excellent, conscientious, responsible and multifaceted manner instead of a country. We can't rob them of the future, we can't shut their windows into the world, and we can't stop them from connecting. Connecting in the field of volunteering and non-governmental organisations, however, is a strengthening of basic civilisation values, internationally, in English, even more. Various policy options have so far been able to bridge some ideological differences in many areas. We are confident that we will be able to do so in the field of volunteering and NGOs as well. Both areas have many positive effects on society and no one can deny it. In the Strategy for the Development of NGOs and Volunteering until 2023, we set ourselves many goals. The Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been engaged in an exchange of views between ministries and NGOs for 10 years to promote the development of volunteering, voluntary and non-governmental organisations, but it is still taking place in a variety of intensive ways within each mandate. We also launched the development of both areas in 2011 with the adoption of the Law on Volunteering and in 2018 with the Law on NGOs. Today, however, we cannot simplify ourselves with regard to a single indent, which for the STA is only an extension of the public reporting service in the English language in both areas – volunteering and non-governmental organisations. This would provide another effective tool to strengthen Slovenia's visibility in the international community even more. Therefore, the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. On 27 October, we tabled a proposal for a law amending the Law on the Slovenian Press Agency. The purpose or purpose of the legislative amendment is to include the reporting of volunteering and non-governmental organisations in the English language as part of the public service provided for by the Slovenian Press Agency. STA is obliged to report on voluntary work and non-governmental organisations, but according to the existing law it is only obliged to report this in the Slovenian language. The new law extends this part of the public service to the English language, thus providing information on developments in volunteering and NGOs in Slovenia also to the international public. With this proposed change, autonomous initiatives can also be made internationally as equal and relevant stakeholders in civil society and as one of the foundations of our social organisation and development. The Slovenian Press Agency provides a public service for the daily creation, transmission and archiving of news about the events in the Republic of Slovenia and around the world. In the Slovenian language of politics, economy, culture, education, health, chronicles, sports, events from the world, science, volunteer work and NGOs, entertainment and other content. The STA also provides a public service for the daily creation, preparation, archiving and transmission of news summaries of the events in the Republic of Slovenia in English from the fields of politics, economy, sport, health, culture, education, science, chronicles and other content. Within the public service, STA also publishes the texts of radio news prepared for publication in the radio media and copyrighted photographs of the most important events. Within the framework of the public service, the STA must provide content on the functioning of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities in the Republic of Slovenia, content on the functioning of the Roma ethnic community, content for members of other national and ethnic communities in the Republic of Slovenia, content for Slovenian national minorities in neighbouring countries, for Slovenians in the place and in the world and in the context of the daily English service of content for foreign public in the Republic of Slovenia. It should also provide for the long-term storage of documentary and archival material produced in the context of the production of various programming content within the public service, in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the management of archival material. The Slovenian Press Agency provides public service for the continuous, comprehensive, accurate and objective provision of information on events in the Republic of Slovenia and the world for the public in the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenians worldwide and Slovenian national minorities in neighbouring countries in the Slovenian language and for the needs of the media and the public in Slovenia and beyond the borders of Slovenia in the English language. However, the STA Act does not now impose the publication of news in the English language on voluntary work and NGOs. The aim of the amendment of the law is to ensure that the international public is informed about developments in the non-governmental sector in Slovenia, about volunteering programmes and projects in many important sectors where they are active, about events and activities organised by NGOs in Slovenia, about achievements, success and the development potential of NGOs. NGOs play a very important role in our society. They take care of a whole range of activities of public interest and public interest. The most classical form of associations and NGOs traditionally the most present in Slovenia are cultural societies. Cultural and artistic integration draws its roots at the time of national awakening and the formation of national consciousness in the 19th century. Today, the highly diversified and diversified area of the social benefits of volunteer organisations from firefighters, cultural, sports, environmental, minority and other stakeholders is difficult to list and promise briefly. Voluntary work is not only a humanitarian activity, it provides services and activities that the State should otherwise provide. It brings together individuals who give their own time, their own knowledge, their own energy for unselfish help to others. In doing so, they help to raise awareness among the general public about various issues, solutions, create an enabling environment, motivate and mobilize people to work and actively engage and develop civil dialogue in society, contribute to values of solidarity and a culture of respect. The data show that the majority of the population of Slovenia is involved in some form of voluntary action, which is crucial for the dissemination of mutual solidarity, cooperation, co-decision and action for the common good and for the public, which could help to spread the positive message abroad – something that we especially need today – that organised civil society is useful, developmental and necessary for every democratic society. The issue is very important at this very moment when NGOs have been hit by a ruling party and a coalition that tries to portray non-governments as workless misdemeanors, when the free-minded culturers, journalists and media are persecuted, when critical NGOs are thrown on the road, discredited and rejected voluntary initiatives and denied their historic contribution, denying their development potential. In Levica, we estimate that it is in the wider social interest for the Slovenian Press Agency to report on the functioning and efforts of voluntary and non-governmental organisations also for international space. We believe that comprehensive reporting not only on political but also on the wider social situation in the Republic of Slovenia is the key to maintaining a healthy democracy. In the Group of the Left, we support the amendment of the Act on STA.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija - Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal of the Left considers the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Slovenian Press Agency, which extends the scope of the public service of the STA in English also to the field of NGOs. We have rejected the same proposal as we do today at the previous regular meeting of the National Assembly and Nova Slovenija is consistent in defending its positions. The Slovenian Press Agency carries out a public reporting service on important topics, creating, preparing, archiving and transmitting summaries of news of developments in the Republic of Slovenia and around the world. The news touches on various areas: policies, economies, culture, education, health, chronicles, sports, international events, science, volunteer work and NGOs, entertainment and other content. Most of these topics are also covered in English. The question raised in this proposal is how wide will the role of the State in the case of STA reporting be determined as the proposal foresees that the translation or writing of news in English is spreading to topics not currently covered by the report in English on the events of non-governmental organisations. In our view, reporting on non-governmental organisations in English is not one of the activities to be taken care of by the State through the State through the State. NGOs wishing to have their messages in English can take care of this by themselves and thus present themselves to the international public. The question is also raised, whose news will be drawn up in English and not in English, as we have, according to the latest information, a comprehensive network of Slovenian NGOs on 31 October 2020, 27 000 997 NGOs, 27 more than on 30 September 2020. In recent years, the number of NGOs has increased by about 500 per year. Some non-governmental organisations have already received additional means of translation, site design and reporting in English. In support of this proposal, the same activities would be financed twice from the State budget. In Novi Slovenije - Christian Democrats, we therefore oppose the proposal of the Left because we believe that it is more appropriate, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, that this part of reporting is taken care of by NGOs themselves. They also receive funds from the budget that they can allocate by, for example, regulating their own English versions of websites and thus informing international activities about their activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u180	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are again considering the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Slovenian Press Agency, which aims to ensure that the international public is informed of developments in the non-governmental sector in Slovenia. The rejection of the government's attitude towards non-governmental organisations, which proved more pronounced at the time of the adoption of government laws to control the outbreak of the new crown of the virus, calls for a readjustment. In the proposal for the STA Act, the Levica Group proposed an amendment extending the definition of the public publication and archiving of content in the English language on the functioning of non-governmental and voluntary organisations. The contents within the public service are distributed free of charge via its website and are accessible to all under the same conditions. In view of the fact that they are already preparing English news in their public service on all areas that are important in shaping Slovenia daily, international reporting on the success of NGOs should also be somewhat self-evident. But not for the current government. As recorded by the right medium, Nova 24, Janez Janša is in power, who told the NGOs: stop. The reasons for the majority of coalition parliamentary groups to reject the bill are unusual and do not drink water for modern times. Let me read just a few of these: the use of the English language is supposed to mean kneeling abroad, it is unnecessary additions and thus increased bureaucracy, the current topics should first be made known to the Slovenian public and could also be mentioned. In this direction, coalition parliamentary groups are debated, and we are all well aware of what is the main and the real reason: In all possible areas, the government wants to silence any other opinion that is not appropriate, to get rid of NGOs or their unloved projects. Since they represent NGOs of one of the three main pillars of modern society, in the SAB we support the amendment of the bill, we support the creation of new news about the event in Slovenia in the English language provided by the STA. This opens a window for us into a world through which Slovenia is part of an international space. Voluntary and non-governmental organisations seek to facilitate suffering, promote the interests of the poor, protect the environment, provide basic social services and have a direct positive impact on people's lives. They recognize the needs of which the country does not satisfy itself, but they are useful for all the inhabitants of Slovenia. In the SAB Group, we are aware that the non-governmental sector in democratic countries is an increasingly important part of society and even one of the indicators of the degree of democratic development of a country. We must not allow partial interests to make our country lagging behind in any area of development. We will unanimously support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the views of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Less than a month ago, at the 21st regular session, we discussed exactly the same proposal for a new Law on the Slovenian Press Agency. Once again, I would like to point out our wish that such inappropriate practices would not become a permanent practice in our Parliament. In the Desus Group, we stress that the Slovenian Press Agency has the primary task of reporting all current topics to the Slovenian speaking population. The Agency does not have “international” or “English”. It also falls under the auspices of Slovenian legislation which provides for its mission and work. Yet, many important news has been translated into English. The arguments used by the applicant in his presentation on information to the international public could also be used for the following, mostly spoken foreign languages, Mandarin, Spanish, Italian, as well as Russian can be found on the list. The position created by us in the Desus Group remains the same: the most important task of the STA is to inform the Slovenian public about the current topics first and perform this task perfectly. In addition, in the framework of legal obligations, reporting in English, it also addresses chronicles and other content where NGOs can easily be involved. It could also happen that such a large number of NGOs and their diverse work in the context of the legal dictatorship, as presented by the proposer, would result in unequal treatment of NGOs and potentially poorly available by individual organisations. In the Desus Group, we will continue to pay attention to any desire to amend media legislation. We believe that it is important for every democratic society that politics interferes as little as possible with their fundamental mission. As with the first attempt at a short public hearing of the so-called media troika, we will continue to require a longer public debate in all the novelties of media law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings again to all present! Today's bill has already been tabled or tabled by the motioner Levica in the legislative process on 8 July 2020. Following the rejection of the draft law on the home body on 8 October 2020, the original proposer now submits the same bill with the other opposition parties. We're wondering what's wrong with this gentleman from the Left. Everyone is familiar with the event and the vote. You have the chairman of the committee who conducted the vote in October, just like he did. You have received a clear answer that the matter will not be confirmed. Within one month, the self-proclaimed Coalition of the Constitutional Arc re-invests the same law. In fact, this causes damage to both democracy and the rule of law. It is an eclectic exercise of the legislative procedure and a lack of regulation in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since, in our opinion, a law which has not been approved on the Committee should not be re- tabled in the same term. By means of a lack of regulation, you want to force a debate when you already have a clear answer that the matter has already fallen. We have already discussed the content of the law on the working body and have thus exhausted the substantive themes. During this period of crisis, the Coalition of the Constitutional Lok is working on a change in the fact that the STA is supposed to carry out a public service reporting on the situation in the Republic of Slovenia in the English language in the field of volunteer work and NGOs. That's ridiculous! We have a health crisis that will follow the economic crisis, and now we are talking about NGOs. Such abuse of the rules of procedure should be punished. There is no need for change in this direction, since the law already provides for reporting of other content in Article 4. This includes non-governmental organisations. We also believe that reporting in English is unnecessary because Slovenian is an official language in the European Union and is equivalent to all other languages in Europe. The use of English is another kneeling outside. It is the Slovenian Press Agency and it should be reported in Slovenian. We should be proud of Slovenian culture and of the rich Slovenian language, which is part of it. On the other hand, we cannot explain why the darkness with the NGOs is being reopened. A little less than 28 thousand NGOs have been registered in our country. This number of social spheres is significantly too high, taking into account the size of our country. These organisations receive a lot of money from the country each year and, after all, make sure that their activities are properly translated into other languages. For this reason, we do not see any need for legal amendments. The biggest problem, of course, is naturalists. They are against everything new and against the development of the economy, but it is essential for the functioning of the country. At this point, we are very interested in how NGOs, environmentalists, will help the economy after the end of the health crisis. Last month we had a problem with strong opposition from NGOs to the promising construction of a hydro power plant on Sava. We know that there is no solution to energy supply in the long run, so we need to find new sources of electricity generation. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we advocate the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the Muri River in a similar way as was regulated in Austria. This is pure energy derived from renewable sources. Such projects are good for the whole country and will be needed at the end of the crisis to start the economy. By applying for participation in a variety of administrative procedures, naturalists impede the normal functioning of the economy. In most cases, the operation of naturalists turns out to be unnecessary. After all, they are not naturalists, but persons who apply for these procedures with a view to obtaining some of their own benefits. We know a number of cases where individuals in the media were very loud and played the places of various objects in the space and then disappeared. The government submitted an opinion that the law under consideration had been regulated in an integrated manner, which was between 9. 7. and 5. 9. 2020 at public level. We strongly condemn such content of the amendment of the law and the manner in which the proponents have chosen it. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u186	Dear Secretary of State, distinguished Mr. Miro Petek, colleagues, colleagues! Position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party on the STA. The proposal for a law amending the Law on the Slovenian Press Agency, a public service agency, imposes the publication of news in the English language on voluntary work and NGOs. The Slovenian Press Agency Act in Article 4 lays down the activities of the Agency. Thus, the Slovenian Press Agency carries out a public service of daily production, preparation, archiving and transmission of news summaries containing key, most important information on the event, on the events in the Republic of Slovenia and the world in the Slovenian language with the following areas: politics, economy, culture, education, health, chronicle, sport, world events, science, volunteer work and NGOs and other content. In the second paragraph of the same Article of the Act, the Slovenian Press Agency shall provide for the public service of daily production, preparation, archiving and transmission of news summaries containing key essential information on the event, on the event in the Republic of Slovenia in English, and shall list several areas of which it shall report in English and shall summarise the others with the term “other content”. The proponent – the party Levica – has introduced a legislative procedure to supplement the law, in which he explicitly highlights the translation of reports on voluntary work and NGOs. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the existing law already provides for the possibility of translating all the areas reported by the Slovenian Press Agency, so there is no need to supplement the existing law. On the contrary. We believe that these are unnecessary additions and thus increased red tape. In Slovenia, there are tens of thousands of regulations, laws, regulations and regulations that do not always increase the safety and comfort of citizens and citizens, but sometimes make life difficult because of their lack of transparency. We can see from the coalition agreement that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is trying to implement its commitment to debarcation, which we support, and in this spirit we believe that it is more necessary to channel power towards solutions and legal bases that create new opportunities for citizens and citizens for a better life. Therefore, we do not support the proposal by the SDS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u187	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. She asked for the floor from her proposer, Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I listened intently to the government’s position as well as to all the sentient groups. First of all, I should say that the representative of the Slovenian National Party would just punish us for taking advantage of the business option and we have once again tabled this bill. Very worrying. Well, we respect the rules of procedure, so give it to you, or change it. The government does not support our proposal, but you are talking about editorial autonomy, and in the same breath you say it would be nice if STA had more news from the regional field and so on. In New Slovenia, too, they say, how wide will we allow the news, which will be presented by NGOs and which will not. Look, the STA is an independent and highly professional institution and I think we need to guarantee autonomy both public RTV and STA, which, of course, this extremely right government disagrees. What needs to be stressed is that in Slovenia we have a very long tradition of volunteering and that we have as many as 240 thousand volunteers who have worked together, I have data for 2018, as many as 10 million hours of volunteer work. Ten million! This is something we should talk about and also inform the international public. Why do you say that right now when you're with a cobbler? Volunteers, humanitarian workers and others are also doing a great deal right now and doing a lot of work that the state should otherwise do, and they are doing all without exception in the public interest and also in the public interest. You know, all these volunteers and cultural organizations go back to the 19th century, during the time of national awakening, which we should really be proud of. And all of these cultural heirs are now achieving truly great international success. Let us not forget voluntary firefighting, which has an extraordinary and centuries-old tradition and also provides a whole lot of security in local communities. These are things that are very important for rural integration, as well as weighing off a lot for some of the minimum financial contributions you like to read, weigh hugely. And they save lives. Not to mention sports societies that help the local population, in rural areas, in geographically neglected areas, to preserve, would say, a healthy spirit in a healthy body, and socializing. We have close to 3,000 such societies, and we have close to 200,000 individuals involved in these programs. Some people are terribly disturbed by environmentalists because of what kind of dirty industry and what kind of project they are organizing. But remember Ecologists without borders, who managed to bring 14 percent of the population together in one of the biggest actions, Let's Clean Slovenia in 2012. This was then a record among all the actions, and these are also things that would be good for the international public to know. Because you know, all the other agencies, foreign agencies are taking news right through our STA, and just because it's a central service, it's important. And remember, although Slovenian is the official language of the European Union, we are part of Europe and we have a lot of representatives of foreign companies, international organisations and so on, which would make it very easy for them to do so. Voluntary work is not only a humanitarian activity, it also helps to decentralise. Slovenia is not only Ljubljana and these voluntary organisations are even more diversified in the countryside than in Ljubljana itself. In short, it is important for the content of the public service to be free and accessible to all under the same conditions. However, I would like to draw your attention to something, and at the presentation of the proposal in the State Council, the representative of the Ministry of Culture stated that the Ministry generally agrees with the content of the proposal and points out the time sense of the change, when there is a government proposal for amendments to the STA law, which would also include the proposed content in the field of non-governmental and voluntary organisations. However, I must draw your attention to the disagreement between the statement made by the representative of the Ministry of Culture and the actual proposal of the government law, whereby all news in the English language would no longer be part of the public service, but their publication in the English language would become a full market activity. And that's what this is all about. We advocate public service, well-functioning, and of course you to privatise all parts of public services, because the public service should work for the benefit of all citizens and not for the private interest. So much for starters, and I'm gonna drop by in the middle, and now I'm gonna leave a few more minutes, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u189	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a law. Now that there are some changes and even cancellations, I will read some of those first debaters: Dušan Šiško, Jani Möderndorfer, Janja Slug, Nataša Sukič, Primož Siter. I do not see my colleague Dusan Šiška, so I give my word to my colleague Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Vice President. I believe that some are already tired of these debates, but, you know, for such debates and for such legislative procedures, the government is, in fact, not its own president, if not its own fault, because it takes care and produces in essence that we need to be even more careful about the subject that we are dealing with every day. Today, in the introduction itself, we have heard mainly criticism in the direction, czech, we have already discussed this law once before, why we must now reconsider. We have practice, parliamentary practice – and this is a coalition, or SDS, which is a master among masters, as far as this is concerned, very well knows, they have consistently invested laws, one and the same, and we have chewed them unconscious. I never actually resented them, never, but today I hear that another penal policy would be introduced as far as that is concerned. The Rules of Procedure here are clear, very clear: what is the procedure, what needs to happen, what needs to happen, how the matter is put off and how it is done. And the coalition, given that the Rules of Procedure are very, very, very friendly to the coalition, has in fact very much the power to stop the procedures at first, as is necessary. What I think is absolutely necessary for me to say at the same introduction is that this is only one piece of what is expected because you know in fact that it is not only in the STA but that the problem in all the media that this government is dealing with is very systematic. Let me give one example of how the Government actually sees this problem, so I will also refer it to the very issue that we are referring to within the law itself and the proposal after the same amendment. And that is, you all know, and remember, that when we were lonely and the aggressor, read JLA, attacked Slovenia, he chose three main targets first, what he had to do. Of course, one in three were converters that had to be knocked down because of the fact that information did not take place and that it could be significantly easier to manipulate communication itself. It's one of the skills of military action, where in fact, in a way, you can quickly enter the area and take over the country. Something similar is happening in the war, something similar is happening in the coup d'états. What happens first? Of course, the army that makes a coup first captures national television or the most powerful media if they do not have national television. This is urgent and then, of course, follows everything else, of course, which is done. I'd be very unfair to say that John Janša attacks and torpedoes what JLA did because she doesn't do it. But in the translated language, he does just that: he shapes the media according to his own measure. And that's basically the main message that we're all aware of in here. Of course, today we will only talk about one provision of the English language, which I will very clearly and precisely define what the problem is. We heard one today. Surely market activity is what is one of the strategies to weaken the STA, because we all know that when the funds and resources are reduced, if this government continues to function – of course through the process of changing the law, the supervisory council, the leadership and then, of course, it is clear at the end what follows. This is said to be a combination of internal costs, burdens and costs that are too high and which the UK will not bear, and these are certainly translations and works in English, will be the first to fly out. One! Second thing. I really don't understand what we're actually so afraid of. What? I've heard a couple of fat stupid things today, if this is the kneeling of Slovenian language in front of foreigners. If that were true, if that were true, then all our politicians would speak Slovenian in the EU or elsewhere. This is not because there are some arrangements, because there are some rules, some diplomatic behavior, some narrow, unwritten, I will say, relations, and not least today one has said that it is an official language in the EU. Yes, in the EU's organs, not in the media! Please! This is nowhere in the EU. Have you seen in the French newspaper a translation into Slovenian so that everyone can understand it? At the BBC, what was left of the Slovenian language, what they had in the Yugoslav Paradise, is virtually no spirit or hearing today. And that's what's problematic. Now, of course, the point. Why is the disputed English also? The last letter, which is rumbled and where we've all been for two days now, is conspiracy theories, and I don't know what else. Yesterday she was a nice colleague, our former Member of Parliament and current European Member Romana Tomc, when she spoke in Odessa and then I watched her on commercial television, where she responded and is inconvenient three times, she mentioned that no, we are for the rule of law, we are for the rule of law, we are really for the rule of law! I have before me a manual that was designed specifically for EU politicians. There is no Slovenian origin and it was not made by the Peace Institute because otherwise some of the hair would have jumped up if it had been done at the Peace Institute. It was made essentially at the Hague Institute for Internationalisation Law in 2012. No one has taken the rule of law seriously in terms of the problem we are talking about today. Why am I referring to the rule of law, and what does this have to do with STA and this law? Because it is also said in this brochure that one of the frameworks – and this is what is absolutely necessary to know every policy, and especially the executive, the government must, because it has absolute power over citizens, over civil law in the sense that it is stronger because of its position and the status it has and, lastly, the budget it has with which it is at its disposal, and it can fight from here to eternity through the judicial branches, and all of them, because they do not have it, will kneel, must be extremely humble. Look out, you're extremely humble! And it has to be self-limiting. Of course, one section in this brochure also speaks of the attitude both towards civil society, the attitude towards private property and the attitude towards the media and other branches of government. When I mentioned the media, of course we also talk mainly about the media where the government, the executive branch of power, direct enforcement power – power as the founder and power through the legislative path, where it essentially dictates and lays the foundations and rules of the game, guidelines on how this medium will function. If I go back to this letter. Why am I going back to this letter? It is not the case that you were paying attention when he actually mentioned the non-governmental sector in there, that he mentioned here two days earlier how this mechanism would work in Europe, that I would not owe you anything, because you all know him and I will not kill you with it, and says one example. For example, they will be working in the Netherlands and then, of course, it is clear, because it will be largely accepted in this country, some peace institute will complain about it. He brought the Peace Institute in. You are kindly asked, the Peace Institute has so much work to do that it has no time to deal with the Netherlands, not even the Netherlands, which has this thing much more structured than we have in Slovenia. And if only in Slovenia will he deal with the problem and with the solution and with the view and attitude to human rights and other open issues and if he points to only 10 percent of these problems, he has done his homework. Why the Peace Institute? I am no defender of the Peace Institute because they know how to defend themselves very well and to justify themselves with their results, but the problem is that if we go to the STA – of course we are talking about the non-governmental sector and the Peace Institute is also part of the non-governmental sector; that non-governmental sector that goes very well into the nose and ears of this executive branch of government. Of course, if you want to limit information on what the non-governmental sector does, first of all, what you can subtlely do with soft receptions, is to say you won't do it in English. Today, those who advocate that we do not need this change have said the following thing – this is what the Ministry representative said very clearly today – because today it is so stated in the law that it is more than clear that all of these content can actually be translated today and therefore it is not necessary to specify specifically that it is necessary to do so. That's what I'm going to tell you. If this is really all so clear, and as long as this medium is very independent and does not have the financial framework that some want it to be, then it is a truly independent institution and it can itself set the rules of the game. The moment you change the control board, the moment you change leadership, and the moment you make sure that these materials are also a market activity, that moment will be the end of this story. And, of course, someone really wants that. Believe me, if you want to avoid it, and if you say it isn't so, then don't be afraid if that word is added. Don't be afraid because you don't have anything to be afraid of, because you're saying that it's already happening today — isn't it? So what exactly is the problem? Now in terms of practice, what have we already done in the legislative branch of power and in the executive branch? When we saw and accepted and were convinced that the law was written in such a way that everything was clear, as was presented today, we later found in practice that this is not the case. I'll give you a few examples. We are now working on whether or not we will enter the Slovenian Sign Language into the Constitution. But the Slovenian Sign Language in this country already has its own law. Do you know why we're putting him in the constitution? Because it must be given constitutional status and a constitutional category of power in that country, because otherwise no procedures can be carried out. That's because you're each in your own way. Second case. We have the law of ZDIAS, which speaks very clearly, which documents in which branches of government are public and accessible. We have now had a major controversy on the MV recently around the Supreme Court and its decision that the court's decisions are no longer public. And then we argued, "What does anyone understand?" What happened? More! In the document, the reasoning of the Court’s decision made it very clear that they had identified the purpose of the legislative branch of power. Can you imagine?Oh, my God! They've decided to tell you what the legislator really think. Only the legislator can speak about what the legislator meant. I have many problems already when the executive branch of the authority explains what the legislator thought because it interprets many times. A lot of times we'll find ourselves on this floor. That is why it is so urgent to write it down in this law so that there will be no dilemma later. More. With this change, and with explanation later, if anyone complains and demands a judicial dispute or even a constitutional judgment, we will see in the process how the legislative authorities ran or how they decided in this process, that we will know clearly what the intention and intent of the legislator was in this amendment. That's why we need this change! I can't, and I can't lose that feeling that we actually have a kind of media Hungarianism that's on the march. This media Hungarianism is terrifying. Do you know why it's scary? Because it took 10 years and some books have been described today, experts describe and even teach in colleges as a school case, something that should not be done. But we're on the right track for that to happen. And the more we talk about it, the more we talk about it, the more we argue about it, the more it gets, the more that it's normal, and it has to go this way. I'm sorry. It's scary for me. I ask again here, and here I ask the government in particular, what are you so afraid of with this change in this law? What? Give me an argument. In particular, I will be able to explain myself, especially that we will be able to explain ourselves to the citizens. As you know, the argument that we are in Slovenia and that we will only write Slovenian is not. Because if that were the case, then I don't know why you have English translations of all your presentation pages in the government and so on, even certain documents. This does not stand for one serious debate, one serious judgment. Who's watching all this? Excuse me, whenever you watch and monitor serious media abroad, you will see that they are mainly summarizing agency statements and news that they are summarizing, but they are summarizing the news that they understand. They do not translate Slovenian into English. I'm afraid that's not how it works. The news is being spread and, last but not least, the purpose is to make more use of the news from the STA, and the meaning and mission of the STA is also justified. And more importantly, it can also get such an agency on the credit rating and, more importantly, it justifies its existence. However, if the agency becomes the trumpet of the government, forgive me if this was the basic purpose of setting up an agency, as some imagine, and that we will become one provincial local agency that will only deal with Slovenian issues, I'm sorry, it's just funny. That's ridiculous. Of course, the Government and representatives of the Government may also ask why such a proposal was made and why it continues to be submitted. Do you know how many times a law on the incompatibilities of the mayoral and parliamentary functions has been introduced and dealt with in the National Assembly? Six times before it dawned on someone that maybe this really isn't working together and we have, thank God, these two functions are separate today. Similarly, many of the acts that we have dealt with in the National Assembly have been taken into account. Again, again, again, until it was caught. The legitimate right is when some people explain that such treatment is not necessary. Legitimate. Why not? I never mind if someone else thinks. But otherwise, I expect, not that someone like an offended child tells me no, but I need an argument. However, the argument is not that the Slovenian language is kneeling outside of the country, the argument is not that someone is saying, because it is already understood that everything in the law is clear and written and understandable and that this is in fact generally accepted. And it is not an argument that we have dealt with this once before. Give me a very specific argument. You can also admit it, because it's no problem. Orban acknowledged what he was trying to accomplish, and he achieved it, and it was nothing national to him. All you have to do is say that we're gonna know that we're gonna be honest. I hope we're honest in this national council. Tell me, we want to discipline the STA. We do not want to get the Slovenian language on its knees, but WHAT to get on your knees. This is the problem of this society and, above all, the government. The legal and legal service has made its point; clearly, there are no serious objections to this issue. But there's a government. That I'm not being unfair, you know, it's not just the Peace Institute. The problem is in all NGOs in the non-governmental sector. They also want to show and say and draw attention to certain problems that are taking place in Slovenia, and not least not only to the problems, but also to the results, achievements and successes. That's the key. You know, I don't know who he is, I don't know where I heard that, whether on Twitter or where I read that yesterday's letter from the Prime Minister destroyed the brand I feel Slovenia. I don't know where, I don't even remember, because I don't even register where anyone writes anymore. But you know, the STA is also a messenger of Slovenes, of Slovenia, of Slovenian countries in the international space. And it's very big. Of course, he needs the basic content to do so if he wants to be a messenger. This is essentially Slovenian success and Slovenian reporting on Slovenian developments. The non-governmental sector is one of the largest sectors. Of course, I know that some of my colleagues, mainly from the SDS, say that non-governmental organisations are leeches, taxpayers of tax money, someone who is not needed and so on. Of course, they never say that to those NGOs that, of course, they don't even hope to do that. I mean, I don't know, Karitas, the Red Cross, like, a ZPM or something. Because every Slovenian is more or less aware of what these NGOs are doing. It is also true that these NGOs receive an expensive spoon of money for their ability to work. Very few Slovenians know that in fact Karitas and the Red Cross get 2 million euros of money just for food distribution. This is not only from the contributions of the Slovenians, but from the taxpayer's money it is directly financed. That's the way it is, and nothing's wrong with that. But it is also necessary to know and therefore the U.S. has to report on the non-governmental sector, what it does with all the other money that a lot of people give off slaps and criticisms about how essentially unnecessary NGOs are. We have volunteers at different levels. I practically hope to say that there is no Slovenian family where one of the family members would not be a volunteer somewhere. In one form or another. From firefighters to humanitarian and voluntary organizations, in short, from athletes to various artists, culturers. In short, I'm sure if I were to mention it, I could just say at least ten minutes now and let go of some more. But, you know, we have a problem because we're looking for and we think that everything is good abroad, but we have very rich and good and quality NGOs here at home. And you know what happens? That these organisations must go abroad and then be praised abroad, and only when they receive a foreign recognition may they be mentioned as being even a cannon in certain areas. This is the grief we have in this national assembly. We should really talk about this. One such small change makes a huge difference in favour of the non-governmental sector. It's huge. Then it happens that a non-governmental organisation that has human rights protection in its mission reports on certain things that the government certainly does illegally and then suddenly become the eaters of Slovenian society. And then our colleague, one and the same, doesn't have to say at all, and everyone in the hall knows who it is, who says to give a billion for these NGOs and to spend money instead of taking care of – and this is this famous populism, where we fall on the exam – instead of taking care of Slovenian children, Slovenian families, Slovenian thresholds of poverty and similar stupidity. It's basically a game, manipulation, and it's lies. That is why we need the Slovenian Press Agency to bear this reputation of the non-governmental sector in English as well, and not least to report on successes or violations – both – in the Slovenian space. Since thank God, the seventh branch of power, forgive me, has repeatedly prevented any executive authority from doing any kind of stupidity. We say stupidity, but some say their own successful project. Please, especially government representatives, stop the horses with media Hungarianism!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Janja the Servant will get the word, and Natasha the Sukić will get it. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u192	Thank you very much. It is truly incomprehensible to me that we are talking about this matter at all, that we are doubting whether it is necessary or not. That, in fact, in the first round, the matter was not accepted and confirmed because I think it is in our common interest that this is happening, and that we have today again on the table and that even someone is allowed to see why it is on the table again. And that, according to some explanations, some should not even invest in this by the end of the term of office. That's incomprehensible to me. I have listened closely to the re-implementation of the Ministry, and in fact I must join my colleague Jani here in my findings. I didn't hear any arguments. Not a single one! It is not possible to talk about what is happening today. I mean, yeah, it's possible, but if you read the law, let's read it again, because we're talking about something. Article 4 of the Slovenian Press Agency Act speaks in the first paragraph of the content reported by the Slovenian Press Agency in the Slovenian language and lists them: politics, economy, culture, education, health, chronicle, sport, world events, science, volunteer work and NGOs and entertainment and other content. Then, in the second paragraph of this article, it lists the contents that STA also reports in English — and what does it say? Yeah, let three indents out of me for unknown reasons, but let them go, and that's a fact. Release events from the world, release volunteer work and NGOs and release recreational content. Why not? If he mentions them, then let him list them, then I see no reason why we should now refer here, as the Secretary of State has said, that NGOs also fall within the other content referred to in the first paragraph of this Article. No, it's not! Because if I did, I wouldn't count them. Because if I had, then I wouldn't have listed them specifically in this first paragraph. I don't see any reason why the government would object at all. I don't know why. Yes, the fact is, we can all agree, always and never have I heard that any of the Members would think that STA is biased, that it does not report objectively and so on. I think that we can all agree here that SO certainly applies to one objective source, in particular a relevant source, which is then, of course, published and summarized by others. I see no reason to doubt now that because it will report certain content in English, it will change. After all, as was the last time, I do not think that, in the debate, they will now determine what content the UK will also report in English. He won't! The STA Act clearly ensures the institutional and editorial autonomy of the Slovenian Press Agency and this will not change in any way. As it is said, NGOs will not be the ones who will now determine what they will report. No, this will remain the same as it is now, and I trust the STA to report and choose those content which it considers to be sufficiently relevant, sufficiently pervasive, important enough for the international public to know about. It is in the field of NGOs that we can talk about the international public and the crossing across the borders of Slovenia that is very important to them, because this is how they work. Then there is another argument, which, of course, is not to which the Secretary of State referred last time and also now again, that there is already a Culture.si portal, where all of this is published. I mean, I'm scared when a ministry representative tells me to. I know that this is a culture ministry that probably deals only with this field, but it is only about culture that we speak to NGOs – I fear it. That the representative of the executive branch of the authority is not aware of what the field of NGOs means! That's what I'm worried about. I'm really worried. Because NGOs are not just culture. It's the so-called third sector. They're non-profit, they're voluntary, but they're affecting every possible area. They work in every possible form, they're societies, they're institutions, they're institutions. We are talking about the humanitarian area, as my colleague, the Red Cross, cultural, environmental, I don't know, firefighters, hunters, tourist societies, not to mention everything. An important part of this is culture, for sure, but it's part of it. And that all goes with it. I don't know why you do that. [[…]] I think that we have already seen together several times that only reporting or one relation to this field of operation as some of the extended deadlines of the country, because, by the way, many of these non-governmental organisations also perform certain public services and represent actually some extended state hand and, on the other hand, allow citizens and citizens to participate in the management of the same country and even companies if you want. And such things reflect our attitude toward them, which, let's say, has been questionable in the past. This field has been deprived all the time, undervalued in terms of certain investments, in terms of promotion, even if you want to, as was today's position of the Ministry, to identify some of the positive effects that the operation of this sector has brought. And that's it, that's the reflection. Yes, steps have been taken forward, I thought steps and leaps have been taken in our heads — obviously not. Of course, I am pleased with the Law on NGOs, which was adopted in 2018 and has also provided some basis for better funding. But what surprised me when we were also preparing to receive ZIPRS? What happened? On the part of the government, some amendments to the ZIPRS came, which would completely and completely and completely end the NGO Fund, this is what happened. From this point of view, all the radars have risen in the SMC and we have stopped it and we will not allow it. And that's just another one. What bothers you, why it bothers you, I don't know. Or yes, I know, I won't even discuss it, but I'm sure that's not right, that's certainly not right. If, in addition, in the previous hearing, there was also the director of the STA sitting here who supported the matter and said why it would be good, then I do not see a single single rational reason why anyone would really oppose it. Anyone! And even when it came to financial burdens, it was said that they would be able to do so. Therefore, I hope that this time a sufficient majority will really be formed, that this matter will be supported, that we will not waste time with such things that should be self-sufficient, and that we will, of course, put this matter through the procedure. I hope so, and I want it heartily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Nataša Sukič has the word and will be discussed by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u194	Thank you very much. What we're hearing is that even the NGO wanted to shut down, that's just shocking. But also expected in our own way, if we know who's in charge of the orchestra. But I note, and I find this quite serious, actually with concern, that we have a very serious noise in relationships, a very serious noise in relation to the Ministry of Culture after all these last things that we have witnessed; from the attempts to amend the Law on Public Radio Television Slovenia, the Law on STA without any public debate, when it wanted to frame it so little there at the end of the summer, if you remember, and where the intelligence is perfectly clear. Is it the intention of the complete submission of the public media to serve — to whom, the distinguished representative of the Ministry? Yeah, who cares? Obviously the most powerful party to the coalition, because I do not see any other coalition parties who unfortunately still support you to have such intents after subjugation and after transformation, literally overthrowing the media landscape. Submitting public radiotelevision Slovenia, subjugating the STA and financial destruction or weakening other commercial media that you do not like. I don't know, but we still speak the same language, sir. Not to mention the last time I mention this attack on culturers, NGOs on Metelkov 6 and so on, we will talk about other things in a short time. I don't know if it's even the Ministry of Culture or if it'd be pretty honest with him - let's drink pure wine - say, like, the Ministry of Culture and promote the ideology of the SDS party, because that's it. I don't see any other ideology in these moves of yours. Sorry, no. It is an open attack on the media and it is an open attack on NGOs, especially in the field of culture, but you have forgotten, as former colleague Janja Slug said, that the non-governmental sector is franticly diversified and extremely important and extremely useful. It covers almost 30,000 different NGOs, many of whom are internationally extremely reputable. And why would NGOs close a window for me to a world like the U.S.A., why not communicate and promote their achievements abroad? After all, it's good for the state. They do many excellent things in all fields, including culture, respected secretary, including culture and art. They're very, very successful abroad. I was concerned when I listened to the secretary of state, and it was true that she mentioned the Peace Institute in her position. Because the Peace Institute is obviously such a thorn in your heel that I don't know, well, you won't survive if the Peace Institute continues to carry out its mission. And she said she had her website in English. Oh, yeah! Of course he does! Non-governmental organizations are also concerned that they are partially presented in English, but excuse me, the STA is something else. If they send news abroad, it is summarized by other press agencies and through them by foreign media, mass media. The other is that you are targeted — you are surfing the Internet and looking for some additional information about some organizations. That's a second. And of course they also represent themselves, but the STA is here to represent all our sectors also outwardly. Among them, there is also, excuse me, the non-governmental sector. So I really don't get it. And even if the U.S.A. agrees to write it down, because in the current law it is not an obligation — this translation into English — to write it down. I don't understand that! What kind of problem do you have? And then you say you'll settle this with your marriage. Yes, with an important difference! From the fact that news in English, as far as NGOs are concerned, would become a market activity. That's what you want to do with this law. Please! And what exactly is behind all this? Something other than control and censorship over everything and everyone who threatens you. What this power obviously wants is to silence and suppress any critical thought, whether it's intellectuals, whether it's experts, whether it's the media or whether it's NGOs or artists or not. That's the way it is. This is what you so clearly say that it can't be clearer. But you're hiding behind some pretty talk and some distraction that's already funny. In short, we'd like to destroy all the intellectual and artistic cores. Let's face it, this ministry, instead of supporting its artists, it would destroy and oppress and discipline. And what would you like, to impose a mind like your client or what exactly would you like? You won't be able to experience this, sire, if you're still trying so hard. Let me tell you that the attitude of the government towards NGOs is one of the filters or some kind of lactose paper of the democracy of a society. It's just a filter that shows the state of things in some society. In our society, this moment is very worrying. Or the attitude towards the media, if you want, to an autonomous and independent media space is also such a lacmus paper, and in these two, respectable, the Ministry of Culture is a strong, strong breaker lately. I have to say. If your relationship – the largest ruling SDS parties to understand each other – does not put all coalition parties in the same basket as it does – to the independence of the media and to NGOs really, no offense, but it does point to the Hungarian scenario. We studied the Hungarian script very well, not just you, who follow it by the book, as it seems. But we studied very well all the studies as to how this was done in Hungary. And this relationship — let’s be perfectly frank — is hated. Your relationship is hated, and many tweets by the Prime Minister and your other visible representatives also testify. They are extremely hostile to the media and also against non-governmental organisations. You're literally pushing the public through your trumpets if you think they're social parasites, parasites, I don't know, lazy people. In short, I don't even know, I don't find anything to talk about. [[…]] Finally, there are strong attacks, a strong hate speech that can be read at the daily level or seen on Novi24TV. And who they attack, who they target – the media! RTV Slovenia is constantly on the wallpaper. Opposition anyway, it's clear as a white day, but also non-governmental; it's all on the wallpaper, daily, and it's not that these are some analyses or some articles. No, it was literally some kind of hatred, some kind of vocabulary, which is actually shameful. Your tendencies, I'm sorry, are brutally clear. But your A, you know, the ministry can't be your, I don't know, nest, from which you create ideology for the needs of one party, it's a party SDS. [[…]] It's not your property, it's not your private lot! This is the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Slovenia, dedicated to all citizens and citizens who are involved in any way in art and culture, including NGOs in this field, so you will have to imagine little. And let's see what kind of relationship Orban has with non-governmental organizations, and we'll recognize each other right now, and we'll immediately recognize those patterns that you're following. And you're barely in power, and you're already tearing it down so I don't know what. Let's take a look at Orban's attitude, a great friend of Janez Janša's. So great that Janez Janša will take us away from the European Union at any time, if necessary, only to follow his great friend Viktor Orban. Let us therefore look at Orban’s attitude towards NGOs. Since 2017, Hungary, for example, has been subject to a controversial law that gives NGOs – to give you an idea, see, an idea – which commands NGOs that if they receive money also from abroad, they should state it on all their documents. Imagine, on all your documents. “Speed from abroad” must be written on letters, posters, leaflets, anywhere. Everything given by NGOs that receive more than 20,000 euros a year from abroad. The government has justified the adoption of the law with greater transparency, you have to think. Orban’s government justified this with greater transparency, but what was it really about? In order to be publicly discredited by critical NGOs and referred to as foreign agents or extended arms by American billionaire and philanthropist George Soros. Look at him! We also have this Soros on the wallpaper; everything that was ever connected to Soros. Oh, my God! In short, what did the European Union decide this June? If this law did not comply with Union law and, as a rule, the Hungarian Parliament should immediately repeal such a law. So much for the rule of law in our neighboring Hungary, when this Orban is so puffed up and when you're inflating yourself with him and interpreting the rule of law in what parallel universe. But obviously not in this reality here and not in some of the European Union's guidelines. In short, that's what we found in this story. You're working on this script. This is how you deal with NGOs, and it does not surprise me that such a problem seems like a small thing that is not really small, but is really a very important and very big thing. So you want to crush, silence, remove everything you don't like. And I hope that what you don't like even penetrates beyond our borders and is promoted or presented in the world. Godspeed! And then you've got a big problem with the Metelkova 6 attack. You have explained a lot about how much money they receive, and you have forgotten to give data from Erar, which clearly shows the Office of St. Stanislav – the largest recipient of public funds among civil society organisations. Martina Slomška – he had more than his financial resources from the country than the Ski Association of Slovenia. So much for non-governmental parasites, respectable. Not to mention that your Ministry of Culture is renewing everything related to the RCC which is exempt from taxes in this country. And you give social contributions to the priests. That's not a problem! This is obviously never going to be a problem for you! Of course not, because this is your base. On Sundays there's a little bit of an election base talking from the minivans, isn't it? That's it! We're supposed to live in a country like this! And this is supposed to be the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Slovenia! Yeah. This is repugnant and shameful, and against it, I'm sorry, we're not going to keep quiet and we're not going to let such things happen. Not in 2020, I'm sorry. What century did you end up in, I don't know, but in 2020 it won't work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The proposer made a statement. Here you go, Mrs. Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, Madam President. That's how I feel, actually humiliated today. It is true that for the second time we are proposing amendments to the STA Act, which is an all-Slovenian media institution of national importance. And here, there is not a single Member in this Chamber who opposes this proposal. I will not say, there is no MP of the coalition, because the honourable exceptions here are Members of the SMC. But not one who disagrees with the proposal to tell us the reasons why, for God's sake, he disagrees. Because, if we have here, there is no financial problem, that is what this legal change wants if the Legal and Legal Service has no comment. Why not? What are you afraid of, as Jani Möderndorfer once said? But what's most sad is that we don't have anyone to answer to from the Ministry of Culture, even though Minister Vasko Simoniti should be sitting here. But this topic is too minor and irrelevant for him, his secretary, Ignacija Friedl Jarc, told her at the beginning, but the government does not support – and went. It's beautiful, really. They left us Mr. Petk here, but he's not competent, and he doesn't have the authority to say anything at all. You listen, you nod, you think your thoughts, you're being paid for, and we're running into a wall here and we're fighting for something that would be in the best interests of all of Slovenia. Do you know that I feel not only humiliated, I feel stupid. In this House, you have humiliated us so endlessly that this is shameful. But you must be aware that you ignore a large percentage of Slovenian citizens and citizens, because not all SDS are for God's sake. And we are here democratically elected Members representing our electoral base. What do you say to all that side that's empty? I hope the camera sees her. That you have citizens hanging down, that you are interested in Hungarian capital, Hungarianism, orbanization, because it gave you a lot of money to win the elections, and the victory did not come out entirely. Now we're gonna have to pay for this somehow. Through Luke Koper, through the release into our media space and through the strong support of your president of this great dictator. There's nothing good ahead of us. Democracy in Slovenia is dead. We sit here and talk – to whom? These rocks. I'm telling you, I'd rather stick my head up a wall than talk to this empty chair right here. I'm not done, I'm sorry. In short, what's the catch? The thing is, you have voice discipline. Tomorrow the command will come and you will press "again" and we will not be able to do anything. A member of the SNS has arrived, who has even proposed to punish us for doing our job and once again referring to this subject and proposing the same law. As we have heard before, it is a parliamentary practice to table a law several times, especially because we can add additional arguments where we can convince anyone else. Of course, it is our right and our work to debate here and to make laws. I was surprised by the Member of Desus, who simply insulted us in his position immeasurably and walked away. He said he could also publish the STA in Manchu. Please, where are we? What a humiliating attitude towards the people we are here to represent some things that the SDS don't like, and then the kimichs agree with each other. You do not have any arguments, but the key argument is that your Führer is fighting the war with the media all the time and he wants to submit them all the time – RTV, STA – and against the NGOs anyway, because sometimes they are critical after the default. Not only are all humanitarians and firefighters, but they are also cultural people who set the mirror for society, which is right, because they are critical to every authority, not just to you. But only the totalitarian government can't bear mirrors. For 10, 20 years now, we have been listening to actual hate speech mainly from your extremely right-wing media financed by Orban, how non-governments are budget eaters and so on. You know, they're saving a lot of trouble that the state and government would otherwise have to solve. Clearly, your John likes to tweet against the STA too, for public opinion must be constantly smoked against the enemies. When the STA publishes the normal news that the protest movement the National Assembly calls for a halt to the abuse of the epidemic for the implementation of ideologically motivated government projects, Janez Janša immediately revved: “The news once again promotes a group of violators of preventive decisions and measures to control the crown of the virus with your money.” What kind of manipulation? What kind of government president is that? He's not my president. I will never sign under his shameful tweets and the disgrace of Slovenia at home and abroad. And you know what kind of feigning! “With your money. Infringers of preventive decisions." Who is in violation of the decree if we tell you that the public tells you that you are abusing the epidemic to make a human tsunami, to attack the media, to prevent democratic processes, which the public has absolute rights? When the STA publishes on 29 October “Thank you for trusting us”, immediately the young SDS – just what else would you do in the basement, well paid with our money – immediately the fakes make this same poster “Thank you for trusting us STA, LMŠ, Social Democrats” and so on. [[…]] You know, that's unacceptable, and what you're doing is really separating people and people. And we keep going our-yours; our NGOs, your NGOs and so on. In short, what you're interested in is privatizing, putting everything into hands, preferably, to strangers. You know, volunteering can't be privatized, there is volunteering. Like we said, all Slovenians, every family has volunteers. And yes, now they can report by law, they want to arrange systemically and there is no reason not to write into the law, as it is legally stipulated in the performance of public service in the Slovenian language. In short, because it does not mean an additional financial burden, because they have not received enough from the budget for 10 years to cover all their costs, it will not impose an additional burden on taxpayers. So there's really no argument, except ideological. And we all have these ideologies more than enough. Let's let the profession breathe once. Once again, I will say that STA is an independent and highly professional institution and that it should remain so, regardless of who it reports on, because it has the right to decide for itself, because we have to trust its independence. And no matter how critical she is of every single power, she has that right. And he even has this duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Jani Ivanuša, I did not quite understand you. You want a replica? You cannot have because you have not yet discussed and the position is not considered a debate. We continue the debate. Mr. Primoz Siter has a word, but the Mags are prepared. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u198	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Hello again, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to sign under the criticism given by Violet about the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at this time. Today we are talking about opportunities for all Slovenian voluntary, humanitarian, non-governmental organizations to take advantage of their work, hand in heart, in the linguistic and geographically very limited part of the world, which Slovenia is, to show its work. We don't even have a Culture Minister here, we don't even have a State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture. Mr. Friday is here with the Ministry of Culture, but he's not a secretary of state. We're doing business here in some weird gray. Given the map of humanitarian, voluntary and non-governmental organisations across Slovenia and we are talking about their future in essence, I think that I should sit here today: for the first time, the Minister for Culture, because it is his competent resort. Secondly, the Minister of Defence should be sitting here because, if we have somewhere in Slovenia, there are many firefighters who belong to his jurisdiction. This is where the Minister of Labour, the family should sit, and basically all ministers should sit here and discuss the opportunities of humanitarian or non-governmental organisations from their field, and how many representatives of the Government are here? One he doesn't even have to be here! As far as this bill is concerned, of course I support it with all my enthusiasm. In particular, because of the fact that it is for its application or for its application, it is primarily for the STA. I know that this is not a normal mode of operation in the current government constitution, it is adopted or the Government is usually proposing laws that are not aligned with the stakeholders that are most concerned, but it is. Here the STA is very supportive or synchronized with the very purpose of, of course, they want to report more intensively on non-governmental organisations, volunteering and so on in Slovenia. The government doesn't have this communication hygiene. Remember before the recent Defence Act, the position of soldiers after the 45th year. The military unions went up in the air and the government went down in its own direction. Then that I do not burden the PKP at all, on measures that directly concern different groups of people, organisations, professions or whatever, usually everyone jumps up and says that this is not a good idea, and the government still overruns it. But this marriage is different. The proposal for this law is fully aligned with the shareholder most concerned, i.e. with the Slovenian Press Agency, which supports it. Public independent media, the network of public independent media, which in the first phase are the Slovenian Press Agency and public broadcasting, is the basic state infrastructure, so important if not more than highways, water networks and so on. And it is time for us in the country, in politics, to understand this public infrastructure as such, for the purpose of public good, to provide information, to provide information to all citizens and citizens. STA also performs this specific function of informing the foreign public, as we have already explained in the introductory observations, in various areas, i.e. with policy, economy, sport and so on. Now, in Slovenia, as I said, we have this challenge of smallness – our language field and geographical smallness – and this is the challenge that we all face. Ask anyone, either an entrepreneur or an athlete, a culturer, anyone who has a job in his life, in any field of public life, that will confirm it. But if this is our manna, on the other hand, we all find that we are very well compensated by how socially distinctly self-initiative and active we are. In this area, Slovenia also has a great deal to show in comparison with other countries abroad. Slovenia, the export products of Slovenia are not only Luka Dončić and Talking Tom. In the field of NGOs, humanitarian organisations, civil society movements, and so on, we have an entire map, a very long list of successful programmes, successful projects, which are envyful. Now only in Slovenia – to explain what we are talking about, because, especially in this social climate brought by this government, it is said to look down on NGOs, that they are adherents, that they are drawn to the state budget, that they do not do anything with much state money – only a few concrete data, what the non-governmental sector is, would present. For example, one of Slovenia's largest non-governmental civil organisations is the Firehouse Union. He's got a fire department. Watch out. 170,000 members per country. 170,000. That's for ten of my Bellies. It's for a whole Maribor people. This is essentially a poor 10 percent of the country's population, from young to old, men, women, people of all profiles. Then there are other huge organizations, the Mountain Union — 61,000 members, the Union of Fighters — 43,000 members. If we just look at the numbers in which the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia are involved, the factor of how Slovenia and Slovenia are socially active and how we engage. Now that I'm on the phone with the numbers, I need to share with you a list that I'm actually very proud of. The NGO centre has a full list, manages a register or list of NGOs. Their statistics are this, the list is long, but I have some time left, but I would like to present it to you just to see what we're talking about when we're talking about NGOs and their work. 27 000 970 is the total number of all NGOs. 27 thousand 970! Among them 4 thousand 230 cultural societies, a thousand 100 and a few touristic, a thousand 500 firefighter societies, 134 district firefighter associations, 5,000 72 sports associations, 140 sports associations, 410 football clubs, 163 handball clubs, then 209 basketball clubs, 545 pensioners, 473 hunting families, 152 fishing families, 235 disabled people's associations, 56 regional Red Cross associations, 373 youth friends' associations, 48 youth friends' associations, 48 rural women's associations, 72 rural youth societies, 170 camp societies, 25 skaters's, 229, mountain 272, 13 alpinist clubs, 19 mountain-rescue associations, 186 patients' and health associations, 48 yoked clubs, 122 radio clubs, 50 machine circles, 13 mountain 272, 13 mountain clubs, 19 mountain-rish associations and 63 associations. This is a map of NGOs in Slovenia at the moment which the current government coalition does not want to open doors to inform the public about their activities! Then there's a group of others here, but I'm not going to list them all now, which makes sense to explain, but the principle is why these societies, why humanitarians, why NGOs are working at all. Why do we even have them as a society? Why do we even have them in this unit that's a state? Humanitarian and voluntary organisations in particular. So they can fill up that hole where politics is a failure! Where politics burns in the social state, humanitarian societies come. Where politics burns in any area, NGOs come to fill this hole, to correct this flaw. Then we have Botrage, the Botrhood programme, for example, which is an excellent humanitarian programme, because poverty eradication does not work with enough political will. We have a Legal Information Centre because the country ignores fair treatment of individuals in a legal cycle, either in an asylum process or in any way. I understand, don't I, this dynamic; the more the non-governmental sector is loud, the more it is the earring of politics. And this current government doesn't want earrings. This current government wants to report that it is flawless, and that is why the attack on all media first, the transmission of all media and the production of all information about the government coming from it to the public. But then these heavyweights — NGOs. Some of them are on Metelkova 6 and have been tried by the Government to dispose of them elegantly – City of Women, Peace Institute, Legal Information Centre – those organizations that mainly set up the mirror and guarantee human rights, right at the point where the Government does not perform its work. Then there are environmentalists who are traditionally demonized, naturalists, and the Parade of Pride and so on. We know which NGOs to clean up first. This government is concerned – correct me if I am wrong – but this government is concerned that the international public is too aware of the state in which NGOs in Slovenia are under the rule of Janez Janša; it is concerned that the public will not know that it does not want to provide funds for the operation of firefighting companies, let's say that we are talking about the operation of sociocritical organisations and so on. Then, in such a dry comfort, the secretary of state at the Ministry of Culture says, look, because they can be promoted through their channels, because we take nothing from them, no. Look at Culture.si. Yeah, what about Culture.si? Please, Members and Members, Google Culture.si. A very nice portal, I do not have one criticism, but it is not an information portal, it is a portal that invites you to explain how culture and its actors in Slovenia work, but not what their activities are today, something that the journalist at STA would gladly cover and witness to the wider world public in English. So let's not get carried away, respected colleagues and colleagues, but this government wants to submit to the media in its entirety. STA reports credible, national radio broadcasting as well, which is why the government has so many thorns in its heel. Democracy is not a thing that this government would want to embrace. Information and coached voters and voters also do not, for the last 30 years, whatever votes they receive, receive from distorted information and this practice is now – of course their duration is limited – and this practice is now sought to push into this limited period of time, to do as much damage in information, to inform the public as possible, but of course criticism is not correct here. Once again: if the Slovenian Press Agency, which wishes to do so, does not give the world public an opportunity to report on the functioning of the Slovenian non-governmental sector, firefighting, if you want, the mountaineers, including the Peace Institute or any address, it is a shot in the knee of public information about Slovenia. Then yes, I have already heard today, we can thank you for the brand I feel Slovenia because there is nothing left to feel. Volunteering, NGOs are the core and heart of what people in Slovenia are doing, and I believe that Members and Members will understand the importance of this and also give volunteering and the non-governmental sector the opportunity to show what they are doing and inform the world about their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Next up, it's mag. Bojana Muršič, prepare yourself for mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Well-known also to the distinguished secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to start a little differently, with one explanation or one look at what we're witnessing today. At the outset, when the applicant presented this extremely important but completely unnecessary law, the Secretary of State presented the position of the Government. When she introduced him, I thought about it, and I said, thank God I'm not a member of the Committee on Culture. Because if I listened to this on the board, in the way that she presented this position, I think I would really rather shoot myself, as my colleague Trček said yesterday; without energy, without everything, without some elan, and then I wondered if maybe she really didn't believe what she was saying and maybe that's how it is. That's why there was so much silence, so much disinterest: just to give my opinion and finish. And I'm going to give it to you in the end, because if you don't support this little change, I really wonder where this is going. But it is true, yes, that today culture is in an unenviable position. At this crisis, which is, there is also a voice, and I can tell you all that I fully understand you, because you cannot help them, and even with these PKPs that we have accepted, we have not helped them much. [[…]] But let's leave it at that. Thank God the SDS Members have now shown some support for the ministry, but it must listen to this debate twice today. And yes, thank God, we'll get to the end. This will all be over. And one more thing: I have to look back and express my dissatisfaction, or it is incomprehensible for me that someone is revealing to the opposition that we are re- tabled. And, dear God, where did we come from?Oh, my God! Well, that's our job. The current coalition, the current ruling party of the SDS, has also been in the previous mandate – because I have already, thank God or also thank God, another mandate in the National Assembly – invested and invested in laws. And I'm not gonna say they were always bad marriages. I'm not even gonna say. Some marriages, I must say, I personally supported them. But our right is to talk about talking about finding solutions. This law, which we have on the table today, is extremely important because the STA performs an extremely important public service: it objectively reports on daily news transmission in Slovenia. While it is now stipulated that the content is provided both on economic, economic, social and other general content, as these are quite something, I will not speak at all. It must also report on the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities, as well as on the functioning of the Roma ethnic community, also summarizes the content of the foreigners and also has a report on non-governmental organisations and voluntary work, but see the fragment; in this area it does not report in foreign language, in English and therefore this proposal is also in the National Assembly. So, if I look at it that way, this existing law of the Slovenian Press Agency, which carries out a public service of continuous and comprehensive, accurate, objective provision of information on events both at home and around the world, needs to be extended. My colleague mentioned that we have 27 thousand 904 NGOs and that these organisations should also be reported to the outside world, including outsiders, to know what is going on with us. It's very important, for example, and I'm going to remember beekeeping societies. We're having a world breakfast day, and that's important. [[…]] Why is this not reported in English? Otherwise, because it is a global one — yes, of course, a fellow Jeraiv because it is a global one, because it was at world level, it is reported, but this is our project. I'm talking about it outside. Beekeeping families did this, promoted it, and much work was done. Since we were just having this traditional Slovenian breakfast, I've just tied it up. NGOs – OF COURSE STA also talks about NGOs and volunteer work, but reports in Slovenian. Although there has been a speech that they have the option, they do not have sufficient legal basis to inform the international public about the operation, so this proposal. Is it harmful? I don't think so. While the Government, in its opinion also presented by the Secretary of State, makes it clear that it does not support this change. And we've also heard on the board that it's a country's overriding. But there's something I have to say in this place. Predominance – what happens to the CAP, which interferes with all possible laws, and some do not belong there at all? And worse. None of these PKP1, PKP2, PKP3, PKP4, PKP5 and PKP6, as well as the PKP7, are found at all. We do not find ourselves Members, not those to whom they are intended, but even less those who need to talk about the rights of the PKP. Acts are adopted all at once, without critical judgment, under pretense, I don't know it's a de-irocracy. This is not about de-de-irocracy. I think that every solution, the least small one that will put us in front of the mirror, in front of the world, is important. At least it's important to me. At this point, I wonder whether the possible Government and coalition partners, other than SMC, are afraid of these changes that would bring Slovenia into the world, as NGOs and voluntary work point out the mistakes in the functioning of our country. We're not just talking about the current government. In fact, this marriage proposal, or marriage basis, is required to give the STA to report to the next governments, whatever they may already be. And yes, in fact, it is a very small change in the law, but with a very strong message and also a huge meaning. Why? English is the basis and if we want to be recognized abroad, it is essential and necessary. Civil society is the one who watches, warns us, warns us, and communicates to the country a message about our work outside. Personally, I believe that this law is, despite the partial solution that is also mentioned in the government's opinion, where the Government writes that the proposal relates only to a minor or partial change. That's what they say: a minor partial change, yes. And really a smaller partial change is just in and just in two smaller articles. The first is, in one way or another, a transitional and final provision. And the people of God, what we've really fallen on our heads! Such changes, minor changes, where in the government's opinion, the government nicely writes that it is a minor change that will be proud of us, because we will be representing ourselves abroad, we do not support. I think so! That's really crazy. In any case, I absolutely support this proposal for the law, because it seems to me that such a small change should be accepted, despite the Government's view that they will fully resolve it with their proposal. Yeah, we know that. Completely, systematically, that's what we've been saying all along, and we know where we are. But it can still be resolved comprehensively and systematically. There's no problem at all. But this change, which is now on the table, can be proud of us forward, and which, of course, the Ministry does not include in the amendment of the law if it even prepares a new system law – I do not know in what form it is now, because, in fact, I have not yet looked at this proposal, even though it is in public debate, but I will look at it, of course – it seems to me that a minor change, which is also mentioned by the Government and the Ministry, is acceptable. And this thing isn't harmful, it's not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The next discusser is Master Branislav Rajić, prepares Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Good evening, everyone! I'm always amazed at how this room draws close to an ideological firecracker, no matter what subject we're dealing with. I wonder why and how much longer we're going to have to put up with this. Certainly not to compensate for these tensions and to start to think in a constructive way or to be guided. Let's say this provocation, it was already right as a provocation of a colleague's remark that it could also be a publication in Manchu. But even if it were in Mandarin, it would be a goal, but even more so if it were in Mandarin, for example, because the population reading in Mandarin is very interesting for us, for our volunteers and for non-governmental organizations. But if I go back to the Slovenian Press Agency. This was, and will certainly remain, one objective source, which is reliable; for the first time, due to the precision of its publications, due to integrity with various ideological impurities and also because of what is least important, but it is not negligible that there are no advertisements. When it comes to volunteering and NGOs, it is one thing when we publish about their work and achievements in Slovenian or publish them in Slovenian – this is of course for the local public – when these same organizations are looking for and want connections at the international level when they try to expand in some international dimensions, the Slovenian language cannot help the extent to which English helps. For me, this idea is understandable and, of course, is to be supported, especially because other profiles of information have already been translated into English, it is only about adding those who remain uncovered. As it is said, there will be no more resources to do so, and this is also important information. I would just like to point out that the publication in English, when it comes to the work and achievements of NGOs, helps much more in their desire to connect with the world, because we are small, the world is big, and we have something to show and to whom to help and also some help ourselves. That's why I don't think it's so negligible that we're really trying to take advantage of this aspect. Just worshiping quite rare readers in Slovenia about an achievement, for example, is not as fruitful as it is when it is published in English and when it comes to putting on an international map. I would also like to point out that I understand and that I absolutely support and I also want to tell others who doubt that the choice of information, like everything else in the STA, remains in the editorial board. Because there were some concerns in the previous committee debate that NGOs and volunteers themselves and their organisations would then try to publish this on their own. Of course you can't. So I think that this thought should be deleted immediately, that it is a choice of editorialism here and that, of course, as with other topics, it is thought out, objective and, of course, most enjoyable for those to whom it is intended. I can't agree with this mirror thesis either. A colleague said it was a fear of setting up a mirror. Like, I don't think that's what this is supposed to be. Because if we go into this illustration of the mirror — when do we use it or use it? Home. So if anyone's afraid of it, they'd be afraid if it's in Slovenian. I don't think that's true, and we could have ruled that out. But we can ask ourselves one question about what news means. Let's say a group of young doctors or medical students went to Uganda to help. If this news is only published in Slovenian, it means that we will be informed that our neighbor's daughter went to Uganda with the others in the group. However, if it is published in English, it will provide one information to the Council that Slovenia is overcoming schools that educate doctors, it is also the noble people who are willing to help. And of course this world will open up to Slovenia and will open up to people who are also interested in giving something to this world and getting something from it. That is why I think that this is not bad or in any way I would like to highlight the elements that I believe are helping in this initiative or in the proposal of this law. However, we must not be proud that we have the fear of differentness and of pluralisation, and this fear must not prevent us from creating social progress and international integration of volunteers and NGOs. We can be proud of strengthening basic civilisational values, but we must be aware that this one will be even more internationally recognized if it is also written in English in Slovenian and that is the point and that is why I will and will support this bill in the SMC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik, and she prepares herself as the last debater, Mrs Mojca Škrnjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good evening, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! Now, we're actually making a very small change here today, but it's very important. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Can I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u205	A colleague of the Box, and Jeraj, please, if it's a little quieter [[…]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u206	Thank you so much for that. A strong English service is actually the basis if we want to be recognized abroad. It's just a fact. This is also a reflection of our society and that is us abroad. I would also like the ruling party, the largest, of course, to know this, and the two others who have obviously decided not to support it are NSI and Desus, because SMC, as a coalition partner, says they will support this change. Actually, it's about goodwill. There are no financial implications, no changes are required, not comprehensive, not systemic, I don't know of any, but it is simply that the English language can be translated either or, I don't know, was written about some event in NGOs abroad or in Slovenia, but abroad. That's all you do here. So all this resentment and all this energy that is invested in not having this change come about is actually unbelievable, we would say our friends in another language. Civil society is the one who watches and warns about things that may not be right in the country. This social engagement of Slovenians, who have joined nearly 28 thousand NGOs, is actually incredible and we must be proud that each other is involved in some NGO, whatever he is doing in his free time. For example, I have been a volunteer for many years in the Maribor Youth Friends' Union, and somewhere else, and I am always proud to say this because I do it in my free time, for my money, and also in this way I contribute to this society, and I also teach my children this. For many times, it is forgotten that NGOs do what the ministries and the state may or may not do too well. This needs to be stressed and this needs to be encouraged. Therefore, I do not see one reason why STA would not report this in a foreign language for other countries. We could be proud of that because we can be proud of our NGOs. Everything. Because we can be proud of, I don't know, choral activity – let's just remember, say, Carmine Slovenice, Mariborese, culturers, peasant women, sports societies, firefighters, everything that Primož mentioned before, and I'm not going to mention. They should be given all the credit, and for that I thank them on behalf of the List of Marjan Šarca for doing so, and I ask them to continue to do so, at least until we get to say normality in this country. But with the citizens, it's a problem. Because these NGOs, especially the culturers, who are obviously very nervous about this cultural minister, are thinking with their own heads. Because they're not following the ideology of one man, but they're trying to do things as they think they're right. We have repeatedly said that this is an independent, highly professional agency, that journalists, at least my experience with STA journalists, are such, correct, properly reported and also participate in all things, at least those that I have organised so far, and I thank them. Of course, I expect them to continue doing this, because it is their job, because it is their public service, for which they are not least paid. But it is true that the biggest ruling party does not want to. They want minds. And I'm going to tell you again what happened to the press agency in Hungary. She was first taken over by HR. I call it setting up their nods, who just started doing what was expected of them. They began to adapt the content, to write only what was pleasing to the government and, of course, what was arranged. In the second phase, they started this same information, biased and favored, for very little money or almost free to sell to all other media. And that's what you call unanimous – if that's what you want, colleagues, whether you hear it or not. That's the way it is. And I'm probably not wrong to say that this is probably the goal of all the media legislation that has been put forward, which, thank God, Desus, stopped her from being in a public debate for only five days, and I thank Desus for that because they showed that the devil went. [[Incomprehensible]] Because if not, my dears, we would have had the three new laws that this minister had planned long ago. A long time ago. Because the coalition roller is rolling without any problems, with one goal: to follow the ideology of one man. And now we're getting a museum. As a matter of fact, I have nothing against the museum. Far from it. But it seems to me that, above all, this biggest government party has lost a little compass. It has definitely turned out that, with all the changes proposed so far in these media packages, they do not want to change for the better, but they want to change to the detriment of the public service. When I speak public, I mean public services, not government services, they don't want journalistic independence, but even less editorial autonomy, because they're obviously very afraid of it and it's nice to control the information that's being sent to the media. This is also evident from the threat posed by independent media and all those journalists who hope to make different contributions than anyone wants. Because on the other hand, in media owned by SDS, we see a completely different picture; how it is written there, how it is discredited, how it is muddy, how it actually destroys the good name of all those who think otherwise. There's been a lot of talk about it, and it probably will. I'm not going to explain what's on Twitter when the basement comes into play, because I'm alone with people writing it. But it's true that most of them are hidden behind some fake profiles because I believe they have a problem when they have to look in the mirror, even after everything they write. In my dreams, it would not have occurred to me to write such abominations and evils. But yes, let each one of his karma wear it and take it away in one way or another. To the conclusion. In LMŠ, as we say, we will not allow this unanimity, we will not allow the journalist to be destroyed by independence, to destroy editorial autonomy, and we will not work for the harm of public service. However, we want two coalition partners and Desus to realize that when you vote against this small amendment of this law, they are actually hurting themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The last debate is Mrs Moica Škrynjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u208	Thank you. We need to know that the current law lays down in Article 4, in the second paragraph, that the U.S.A. performs the public service of daily production, preparation, archiving and transmission of news summaries containing key, most essential information on the event, on the event in the Republic of Slovenia in English with the following areas: politics, economy, sport, health, culture, education, science and other content. Nothing in this article and nothing in this law prevents the Slovenian Press Agency from translating everything published in Slovenian into English and publishing it. If the Slovenian Press Agency or director is unable to do so, it is necessary to find another director who will be able to arrange for the translation of the news. There's nothing to stop him from being published in English. The director, the entire Slovenian Press Agency, who undoubtedly has quite a few good journalists, should be more concerned about the ethical and educational mission he has. And I'll just give you one example. Recently, I read that SOA publishes the address, you know how STA publishes, it's the address, and then you can look in the background for an article. The title is: At the time of the crown, children forgot to eat with forks and knives. Please, what does that mean? So because they didn't go to school because they didn't go to kindergarten because they were at home with their families, they forgot their normal behavior, which means that the reader can create an opinion that being in the family with their parents is extremely harmful. In fact, people who said, no, that's not true, at home with their children, we also eat normal and cultural food at the table, and we teach them that. Then when you look at the matter more precisely, basically the Slovenian Press Agency reports on the case from England, but in the background people don't read it. Finally, he says that in fact association with family members was beneficial, but that’s all behind. So what I want to say is that real reporting should also be ethical. That means you're putting the essentials in the title. If I look at, say, a similar example with RTV Slovenia, where it writes, the European Union, think, Response to Janšev's letter, it will be a moment to end this madness. In fact, these are the words of Alenka Bratušek, not the EU, the EU has not said anything about this. See, that's why if you tell something the truth, it's also very important that you tell the whole truth, not a fraction of the truth, or even the opposite. The law offers some additional bureaucracy, we deal here with a matter that is not necessary at all, because the Slovenian Press Agency can already publish any thing in English, even in another if it wants to. I'm sure no one would defend her. And if someone doesn't understand that PKP1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, and if necessary, there will also be 8, which is helping people in distress, an economy that doesn't stop, that you don't understand, I understand. But I'm talking to people who are users of this, say entrepreneurs to me, the school kids tell me that they understand and they work properly under these laws. If these laws, the PKP packages, are needed and have actually saved our economy and the hardships of individuals, of course this STA law is unnecessary, but at the same time poorly written. Because, if you look at it, in both of the applications that were given, both 14 days ago and as now, the text of the article, which changes in the second paragraph, is wrongly written. You also wrote the laws, the ones you wrote, bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u209	Thank you very much. We have a replica. Mr. Siter first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u210	Thank you very much. I've got a colleague of mine, Chestnut, 20 years of radio work. As a radio host, I regularly met with editors and carried out something called air check in this loan box, which means that every minute of my work was checked and the editor, since this is a more experienced person in the foho, gave me his opinion, position and suggestions for improvement. With such implementation, I have the feeling that the Slovenian Press Agency is on its air check. This implementation of the Škřinjar colleague is exactly what we have now pointed out in two hours or three hours of debate that politics has nothing to do with the editorial policy of any media or institution of the STA format. I think so! So why are we gonna go through every contribution of the STA and check it out? Wasn't that the party you were so eager to criticize, was it? Is it time to send the police commissioners to the media, SDS political commissioners? That's right. Thank you, colleague, you have made an excellent presentation of what we are now reminding us of, an excellent display of what is being pointed out by public television and what is being pointed out by employees of the U.S.A. That's right! Look at this address they wrote! You, you, the journalist, you didn't write as you did me and our leader wanted. That's it. Thank you, I am very grateful to you, on behalf of the public, I thank you that you have now made a plastic presentation of what we have warned about, and we have only consolidated our position in support of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Replica first, Mrs. Muršič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I found myself somewhere in your debate and we were probably not fully understood or misunderstood; at least in the part where you were talking about the PKP. I was really talking about the CAP, and I didn't say they weren't helping the economy. Absolutely not. I've been saying that it interferes with a lot of laws, that they're becoming opaque, and I've been talking about the peremptory nature of the legislation. Thus, at the end of this law, I do not have much, but I will commit myself to interfering with the CAP even in laws where it is not even substantively helping the economy and it would be necessary to think about it thoroughly. However, I must say that when I also said that you were saying that you were not defending yourself from the STA, that everything appeared in the English language, but I was struck by the thought that because the director did not order it, it was necessary to replace it. [[…]] No, no, no. This law provides a basis, a legal basis, or a requirement, if we say so, to do so. And in this part, it's crucial. One more time. Absolutely the CAP has helped the economy, but a lot of economies today, I will say that the economy is still alive, but independent entrepreneurs are already closing down their plants because they simply can't do it anymore. And that's the problem, and here we're going to have to cut down with PKP7, 6, 8, 9, 10 if we still want jobs to keep going, because they're really on strike. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u213	Thank you very much. More replicas, Lydia Wildyak Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm not going to go into what the PKP has with the change in the STA, but okay. But it's what a colleague of Škrynjarova did, a school copy of how they think in her client and how they don't think. In fact, to introduce a single mind and follow one of the ideologies of one leader, that is clearly the goal. Everyone who doesn't do this, but they need to be muddled, spitted, and, if possible, will now be an article on Novi24 or they will be tweeting friends. It's an operating mode. And that's wrong! Politics has nothing to do with editorial policy in the media, except, of course, in those you control, there you can do what you want because they are as private. Politics should move away from all of this because the media are supposed to be the ones controlling the government. The authorities can't imagine the media being her property, and that's the wrong thing to do. That's what we've been defending on the Marjana Sharca list all along. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mrs. Skrinjar wants to talk about the rules of procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u216	And I'm asking about the code of ethics. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u217	Sure, go ahead, Mrs. Boxer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u218	And I'd like to talk about the ethical code. If we have it, please make sure the president doesn't insult me with the same mind and follow the only leader. Please, these are insults, rudeness and display of the intellectual potential that someone has and someone doesn't have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u219	Mrs Škrynjar, this, for the first time, was not a procedural proposal. Since I have already said this a hundred times, I will once again: as President, I must not interfere with the substantive debate of Members. In any of the discussions, I did not find any offensive words. If you have recognized yourself in your words, Mr Love Žnidar, I beg you, if you do not shout at all because it is simply not polite. [[…]] And you keep saying that, you're making peace in this hall. Please, if you respect me as Chairman and the other Members. I'm not done yet. Mrs Škrynjar, this was not a procedural proposal. Just as I did not get involved in your debate, I will not get involved in other discussions, and please do not abuse future procedural proposals for such interventions, which are not. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, I believe you disagree. Because if we agreed, we wouldn't do that. But the rules of procedure are clear. I can also read you an article, but I suggest you read it yourself, so that we do not burden the other Members who know this article with unnecessary burdens. Now Mr Ljubo Žnidar has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It is true that in the National Assembly, which is supposed to be an example that is supposed to be the temple of democracy, which is supposed to be an example for all citizens, far from that. This is because of the manner in which you lead the National Assembly in such a way that insults, humiliation, threats are allowed in the National Assembly, and we have also detected threats without any warning to these Members. In short, everything is allowed here. And one, it is said to some, not all, and it goes beyond all bounds. All citizens are disgusted that we are going to the National Assembly [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u221	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, what is your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u222	And all this is allowed by the way you lead. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u223	What is your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u224	Your procedural proposal is to hold meetings in such a way that there will be no humiliation, there will be no resentment, there will be no contempt and there will be no threats. This is your job, and I ask you to drive in accordance with the rules of procedure and that the National Assembly will be an example to the Slovenians, not that it is one disgrace, that it is one piggy at the highest level of the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u225	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, you just demonstrated for yourself what is not a model for citizens. Such a word treasure as you have now had is not a model for citizens. Nor is it an example for citizens to be at a meeting where peace is supposed to prevail and to listen to one another during the debates. However, as regards your procedural proposal, let me tell you that in no debate did I detect any threats, no insults. However, it is a fact that on the one hand and on the other, we understand and obviously understand different concepts and Slovenian words. So I am not surprised if you have come to understand from any discussion of threats or insults, but after some general use of the Slovenian book language, there were no threats in the debates. That is how I think we can proceed or we have come to the conclusion of the debate, where the word first comes from the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State. /advertising from the hall/ You get the word in the end, but you can, because we haven't finished the debate yet, you can do it now. /advertising from the bench/ Then you want to discuss it. Here you go, Mrs. Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u226	You know, on behalf of the proposer, I've listened to this debate, and I'd like to replicate it a little bit. This was a very unpleasant complication in the end with these procedural ones. I really want to be an example and an example, but when SDS Members are discussing, we hear a lot of things. Vice-President Jože Tanko has also set a very strange standard of meeting management, and that is what we have all seen, including citizens and citizens. As Mrs Mojca Škrynjar says, proof of intellectual potential; you know, I'm used to it when this lady speaks, I go to fact checking, because the lady is always deceiving. And if we say domestically, it's really lying and extremely manipulative, and it shows what kind of media it is. Look, I'm just going to operate on the facts. She noted that the STA announced that children during quarantine forget how to use knives and forks and disgusted one large part of the debate. But obviously, is this proof of your intellectual level that you just read the address, whether you were unable or unwilling to read the article, that's not what I'm going to go into. However, I would like to read you only a part of what follows the title, “London, 11 November, reports the U.S.A.: During the quarantine during the covid-19 pandemic, most of the children in England went back to learning, and some have significantly deteriorated in social skills, the British Office for Standards and Education, Services for Children and Skills of Offsted warns. So some kids forgot how to use knives and forks, others wear diapers again, writes the British Bureau. The report also mentions reduced physical capacity in children, while some students show signs of mental distress, such as eating and self-inflicted disorders, while in a third of schools it is noted that more and more children are being taught at home instead of at schools.” These are facts published by STA on the basis of articles from England. What's wrong with you? They got the BBC News. But of course, if these media were owned by Orban and you, the esdees, would attack. Now you'd be replacing the director – because of what? Because we will find another director who will be able to translate all these things into English. Please! The legal basis, the public service operates on the basis of laws and not on the domestic basis, as you imagine. That is why we want this legal change. It is a source of news that is the most credible and objective in the country. You know, what you do is one manipulation and a lie. How can you not be embarrassed? We can all Google today. While you're talking, I'm checking you out because I've learned that Mojca the Boxer needs to be checked. For I have already read in these trumpets of yours to throw a mask on the ground, and I do not know what. I didn't do it! And don't look at me funny. These are rude teasings and lies. I destroyed social property when I protested Jože Tank's leadership, and I beat my pencil like this, you say, you're throwing millions away. I really expected this debate to go more substantively, and I am really disappointed. We have now reached the PKP and how we have helped different people. Look, the NGOs are doing a lot to reduce poverty and disaster in the country. A lot of civil society is helping elderly people, helping poor children, helping the hungry. Yes, you with the PKP help the rich, you help the most those who have the most, are large corporations, a lot of people lose their jobs. And don't brag about it! In PKP6, you've equalized religious servants to self-employed workers. But do you know what self-employed people who pay taxes are, and now the state has made it impossible for them to work? Today every nun, every priest and every cook in the parish will receive 700 euros of monthly assistance. On what grounds? On what grounds? [[There's a riot in the hall.]] I'm talking, ma'am, and don't interrupt me! In this government, it's only about ideology. And why don't we report the NGOs? Because it's an ideology, although a lot of our NGOs have international connections, we get a lot of funding from abroad. As you say, Orban demanded that all NGOs write alongside “supported from abroad”. Yes, given that you are imitating him in everything, let us also determine and each publication of your media should have a slogan alongside “supported from abroad”, because you are mercenaries from abroad. These are the facts. These are the facts. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Can you let me finish?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u227	Just a moment, Mrs. Violeta Tomic. If you turn it off, you're running out of time. Colleagues Members of the SDS that I will not name you [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, Mrs. Jeraj, Mrs. Boxer. Please, if you stop yelling at me when I'm talking to the Member of Parliament. Just because there is an insult to you does not mean that it is a general offense — is it not? I didn't get involved in your discussions. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u228	He's the chairman. If [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u229	Mrs. Jeraj! Mrs. Jeraj! Please, if you don't take your word for it! This is too much, and I am giving you a warning for this act. Yeah. Can we show some culture in this house? Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, if you have something to say, thank you for calming down. [[...]] Mrs. Tomić, continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u230	Yeah, sure, the cat always squeals when you step on his tail. We didn't get from Bosnia from Djudzic or from Hungary's money, but the facts I'm talking about are. But the problem is, you know, NGOs do a lot of good, and some NGOs that are critical to power, they don't like it, and because of one tree that you don't like, how it grows too much, too much, too free, you cut down the whole forest. Look, it's doing a lot of damage to the whole country, and I can see my time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u231	Thank you very much. The Replica has Mrs. Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomic, [[sign for the end of the debate]] I'm not a foreign payer, you insulted me. If you don't understand this, if you're speaking another language, like she said before, we're saying different things, I'll tell you, you've insulted me, [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u233	Madam Ambassador, your time has run out. [[advertising from the hall]] Madam Ambassador, you had eight seconds and you're sorry to hear that you've run out. Are we going to the conclusion of the debate, where she can get the word of a government representative if she wants it? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u234	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. First of all, two explanations, given that I was personally exposed. If I haven't been physically present here at the gym all the time because of my weakness, it doesn't mean that I haven't been monitoring the implementation of Members, as you know, modern digital techniques allow it today. And the second position, just as calmly as I said at the outset and presented the Government's position, I will repeat once again, despite the fact that some people here in the Chamber are very disturbed by this, some of the starting points or emphasis that the Government has drawn on this position. So, in the eighth indent, in the existing law, we are talking about other content – in the existing STA law – and these other contents, of course, also include the presentation of voluntary work and NGOs. Just because we don't want to get involved, we don't want to make regulations or impose legal obligations on any editors or to interfere with editorial autonomy and editorial judgment, that's why we don't think such a legal obligation is necessary. As the Director of STA, Mr Bojan Veselinović, pointed out on 7 October at the Committee on Culture, you are already well aware of the fact that it is already aware of the fact that volunteering and NGOs in the English language are being reported, even though this is not normal in law. The second starting point is that, of course, the Government is aware of the extraordinary importance of volunteer work and NGOs, more than 27 000, and that we even very much stress the need for these organisations to be heard and heard, regardless of where the end of Slovenia comes from. Therefore, of course, we strive or support that there is as much news as possible from different regional environments; that is, for cooperation with local and regional media. The third point that needs to be highlighted here in particular is that if the Minister of Culture, as has been said, had a hostile attitude towards non-governmental organisations, they would certainly not have supported, right, the Culture.si web portal, managed by the NGO Ludmila, which in the past ten years has been the subject of communications and special reporting on non-governmental organisations and cultural volunteering, received around EUR 900 000. In view of this, the Government considers that there are no obstacles to the transmission of such information, which are already being translated within the Culture.si web portal, intensively represent, if also presented at the STA, and absolutely, irrespective of the financial support of the Culture.si portal, the NGO Ludmila is the one who, of course, autonomously decides what content will be published on this website. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u235	Thank you very much. And the final word of the motioner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u236	Thank you for your word. Because the secretary's talking, that, I'll put it mildly, is not true. Bojan Veselinovich, quoted for the second time, did not say what you say he was saying. He said it wasn't about whether they're translating anything else into English today or not, but whether it's about getting this legal arrangement done as a public service. Culture.si you keep saying, I mean, that's not what we're talking about. Creative Europe and Slovenia has nothing to do with what we're talking about today. You, as secretary, repeat this to me ten times in one. I mean, I have a feeling you're sleeping out of us. Really, I'm sorry. Or we do speak different languages, as our colleague in Desus said, Manchu. But, you know, I was actually hoping because now I have two members from New Slovenia, I was hoping to get your support or yours, because living proof of professionalism and neutrality is that there is a sister of your minister, your colleague, a member, Jerne Vrtovac. And I've never, ever seen any ideological definition, I've never seen unprofessionality or its political definition. That's what I'm talking about. They're so deep, but I have such deep respect. And fighting for an independent STA means exactly whether you agree to New Slovenia, SDS, Left, to receive objective information that if they summarize something from English sources, then this English source is quoted as being abused as if in Slovenia children do not know how to use forks and spoons. That's what I'm talking about. I really don't know why we wouldn't support why you wouldn't be so obedient, so, so, and why fall for the stigmatization of a certain group of people or NGOs, when we already said we have a spectrum in Slovenia of NGOs. [[…]] [[…]] From firefighters to the beekeeping union and everyone, not to mention, and it is really absurd that something that has a centuries-old tradition in Slovenia is not something that we would proudly show abroad. What Rajić mentioned earlier, and I am grateful to him for this debate, because he has opened one aspect that I am not; many NGOs have international links with international related organisations in various European countries. These international organizations are connected and it's nice to get some feedback where as well. A whole bunch of projects are where Slovenia raises only one small part of the funds and in the European Union provides a left share for certain projects, and if it were possible for financiers to then read the result of this funding, it would be much better and much more for NGOs as well as for our opening up to the world and abroad. You know, hiding like a serpent's foot is the success of our athletes, culturers, NGOs is incomprehensible to me. It is simply some selection of news, and even if it were selection, it would not bother me as much as I am extremely disturbed by the newsmaking that we witnessed here today in that debate earlier. Designing, faking, so that people really don't know what's true or what isn't, and then it's very easy to even get them to. That is why we have come to the stage in these few months of the reign of John Janša, that we have a completely dismembered society and that people are completely confused because they do not know what is true. They don't know because some people want to submit to independent media. As colleague Jani Möderndorfer mentioned, every war, every occupation begins with the media. They're about to attack television, broadcasters, big media houses, because that's how the war starts. We now actually have an ideological war driven by the most powerful government party, and we simply cannot allow it. We were always able to talk. I am now Parliament's second term, and we have been able to talk, including with SDS Members. We had, you won't believe, a pre-new meeting every December. So how, I mean, I don't understand, now you've been treating us so much since you got the power in your hands that I just don't know and I don't understand how we're going to sit at the same table. Yeah, you don't agree because you're looking at things differently. I will tell you as an opposition Member that simply attacks, mocking, waving, jumping into words, disobeying the rules of procedure, the rules are something that this house really does not want to do. So I hope we get support for this little amendment to the STA Act, because we don't know why not. We didn't get any argument as to why we shouldn't. There is no financial problem, WHAT wants this change and this is the only truth, Madam Secretary, wants this change and the Legislative and Legal Service has no comments. This is a small change, but very important. Except, of course, if you want the government's amendment and the addition of the STA Act, which we, frankly, are afraid of, because we already had a proposal not a threesome, a four-way that we've stopped luckily – in five days it is supposed to be adopted – a four-way media law that would put national television at great risk, as well as the STA, of course, financially exhausted. And this government proposal and the addition of the STA Law would also include the proposed substantive complement to the public service for non-governmental and voluntary organisations. The government's solution is that these news in English would no longer be part of the public service, but their publication in English would become a full market activity. Whole market activity! So what we're doing here is protecting the public interest to protect the public service from an act of private interest. One way or another, there are some areas that we really have to worry about objectivity, but of course there are public services. This is absolute health care, education, media and so on. There are some things you can't sell. If we sell everything we have, it's not a good strategy, because what we're going to have is Slovenians. What are we going to refer to? Not everything's for sale. The country is not for sale, the media is not for sale. Market activity is not the only viable activity. Come on, let's keep a little bit of state-of-the-art and not sell out everything we have in Slovenia. The language, the culture, the last thing that kept us safe, they're in real danger. I hope this government doesn't last much longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u237	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since there is still time for discussion, I ask whether you want to discuss it further. I see that interest, so I will also read the warning that if you would like to discuss the representative of the proposalr, Mrs Violet Tomić and the representative of the Government, I would also ask you to apply by pressing the button to turn on the microphone. In this case they will get the word as the last, first the representative of the Government, then the representative of the proposer. Now I'm opening the list. Please sign in. We have four panellists. Each one gets five minutes, the first one is Mr. Janez Moškrič, prepares Mrs. Mojca Škrynjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u238	Good evening. Thank you for your word. I can say that it is very difficult for the average Slovenian to say that almost 4 hours in this Parliament we are talking about just one word, and this is the word that a commitment is made to the STA Act to prepare a report in English on the news of social activities and other NGOs. It's been broken for four hours in one sentence. Then we ask ourselves why it's necessary. They explained that the whole world would know about these stories. What are these stories, and they give a good example of how many NGOs are in Slovenia. It's been exposed to, like, three areas. If we look at: The story of Ecologists Without Borders Let us clear Slovenia in one day, say, the celebration of last year 150 years of fire fighting in Slovenia and as a third important case the world day of bees on 20 May at the initiative of Slovenian beekeepers, Slovenian societies. And what do we find out? What were we told on the committee? All these three very important events in the field of social activity and in the field of NGOs have already been reported correctly in the past, as these have been the case both in English and in English. Thus, important events have already been reported. However, today the average Slovenian beekeeper gets from his president that he has to report to the state authority on bee health, how many families he has, and this is not information that is likely to interest the wider circle, the real population. And they got it today, and so did I, who's watching it. The essence of this is likely to be the worst thing in Slovenia in the last few months that NGOs want to rule. However, those who have taken over the rule would be better off just moving out of Slovenia. This is the problem that may not have been warned, but it's heard all the time, we hear it all the time, you're authoritarian, we're only determined here to press these keys, but you know. No way! Because then I wouldn't be here, not by any chance! Even when the session was discussed — because I still have time. Look, there's so much fat in the book where it's exactly written. This year, however, an ethical code has been adopted, which is written in such a small book and can be most broken down in Article 4: The Member shall act in such a way as to protect the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia. The Member shall not offend the President of the State, the Member shall not offend the President of the National Assembly, the Member shall not offend the President of the Government, the Member shall not offend the Ministers, the Member shall not offend his fellow Members. What's an insult? If they tell me that I'm just for pushing here, it's an insult to a man I'm used to working with my hands. That's what I think you're feeling sorry for. So what is an insult to someone is, say, a personal matter. So please, let's take into account that we don't complain to each other, that you don't insult the official authorities and that you're trying to say that as an opposition you're insulting your option, that you're close to you, that you're somehow getting into the system of state authorities, and that's all. You are also right and the rest of us have consulted, we have found that these words are not necessary, they do not have such a high importance for the existence of the state and society and we are moving on to the following laws, which are necessary for Slovenia to have fewer laws someday. That's the point. So there's less law. But we can't follow this right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u239	Thank you very much for your discussion. Given that you quoted the ethical code and Article 4, we need to be so correct that we can read the text that is actually written in the code of ethics and I will read this article. “4. Article, reputation and integrity. The Member shall act in such a way as to protect the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia, the reputation of the National Assembly and the reputation of the parliamentary function. The Member shall act in such a way as to strengthen public confidence in the integrity of the National Assembly and the function of a Member, and shall avoid conduct that would undermine the reputation of the Member of the State or abroad.” That's the whole content of this article, and I don't know what code you read, but okay. However, I agree that the insult is a matter of personal perception, so thank you very much for your debate. The next word is Mrs. Mojca Škrnjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u240	Thank you very much. The title that was in the Slovenian Press Agency At the time of the crown the children forgot to eat with forks and knives should read, in England children forgot to eat with forks and knives at the time of the crown. This would be an ethical address that would reflect the actual content that followed. And if, after school, I say that maybe the colleague was sitting on her ears, but she didn't hear it, I also said that the address was the same as it was, and that we find out that it's just abroad, and that there's a more positive comment at the end. However, the title reflects the actual summary of the key message of the article itself. And that's what I wanted to warn you about, and I warned you. Apparently, we speak different languages. But if until today I imagined it perfectly normal that we would be, we could spend a pre-new evening together with anyone here, and that seems to me to be the most normal thing, but from now on, when you think I'm being paid abroad, and please, if you can prove it, then it's hard to imagine some social, cordial association. Unfortunately. And the ethical code, of course, speaks of being respectful to one another. Mistakes are allowed, their own beliefs are licenses and they're not. However, there was a great deal to be heard today, and resentment is always at our expense. The quantifier is already that with a certain tone, you say that SDS is, that you agree, or that you are a member of the SDS. It's already coming out of your mouth as an insult, and I'll never agree to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Procedural, Mr. Prednik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u242	I know this meeting is long, but come on, let's take three more hours. Let's stick to the subject, end the debate about who's hurting who. I'm sure if a man were human, regardless of function, it would be easier for everyone. Now let's keep this point to the end and stick to the subject, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Yes, I agree. Let's talk for another 10 minutes. We have two more debates on the Law on the Slovenian Press Agency. Here you go, Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u244	Well, look, there's still gonna be something to say. My friend Jani, I'd love to be patient, but if one of you said you were a mercenary from abroad, I don't know if you'd say "let's give it to me patient" and everything's fine. I must protest or protest the conduct of you, President, because you did not condemn it. And if we are already reading an ethical code, Article 8 states Dignity and Respect: “The messenger is dignified, respectful, tolerant and non-discriminatory. At meetings of the National Assembly, meetings of working bodies, meetings, working meetings and other meetings, he shall not interfere with the work of his colleagues and other participants, he shall have democratic dialogue and shall not be offensive." And Article 9 speaks of the leadership of the National Assembly, which is you, colleague of Hefferle, “The leadership of the National Assembly is an example of respect and promotion of ethical principles. It also respects the Code by noting the inadmissibility of violations of the Code." I'm guessing you didn't do it if there's no offense for you to be a mercenary from abroad. I wish no one would ever tell you that. But if you ever do, then I'll ask you, but you think it's insulting or not. Now let's get to the bottom of this. We've been listening all day to what we want to do in the SDS, how we don't know, destroy everything, introduce a dictatorship, I don't know what to do. We have no such intentions. He explained to us how important firefighters, beekeepers, and not all society were, as if we did not know, and as if we did not finance it, as if we were not members of societies and so on. But it's the fact that firefighters on Ig, where I come from, probably someone in Belgium, France or England doesn't really care. You will not find any news in Slovenia about the Ig Fire Company at the STA, but a lot of important things will happen. Maybe when they buy a new car and that's it. So I don't know, but you're defending yourself and who exactly you're defending. Now that's the way it is; these societies can be reported by STA and it has this in its law, but often not. Although my experience is perfectly fine, I am the president of the Society Fran Govekar on Iga and we have a website in Slovenian, but we have one sub-page in the country of cradles, where we deal with colliders who are on the list of world heritage at UNESCO, we also cooperate with other countries and we also have that sub-page in English because it is interesting for our foreign partners. Similarly, all other societies do. One Ig Fire Company has no English side, because it works locally and does no such thing that it seems important to it that we now have to play it in English, because they do not do things that are interesting for others. Those organisations, NGOs, which have foreign partners working in the international field, which also apply for different calls abroad, have, of course, the English side, and they are co-financed not only by the Ministry of Culture, but also by other ministries. If they're from the environment, it's the Ministry of the Environment and so on. I know that we, provincial and insignificant village societies, as we have heard at one of the last meetings, can't even compare in our dreams with the top artists of Metelkova 6, but if you need an English website for your work and you're doing business with an English-speaking audience, you do, and they do. By the way, one Peace Institute, when it publishes its news on the English side, the one who is interested in it will certainly go to the Peace Institute, will not go to the STA to look for anything written about the Peace Institute. It's real. But if we want to do one circus, and we're just doing a circus, like some people think it's in their blood, I'd say. So, the STA Law already allows for the publication in English and is also happening. I wish there was more news in Slovenian about NGOs. I estimate there's not enough of them, and I estimate you're working the problem where it's not there. As a rule, if you send a notice about an event, about a situation in society, you will also publish it in both Slovenian and English. We are in favour of reporting on NGOs in Slovenian and English, let this be done because the Law on STA makes this possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Madam Members, given that you have addressed me with comments on my leadership, I must respond. You read Article 8 of the Code of Ethics correctly. But it is true that what is worthy, what is appropriate, respectful, patient, is a matter of personal judgment at some point in time when they are fighting, I do not know, two completely diametric positions. It is true, however, that this article, which you have read, also states that the Member acts in such a way that it does not disturb other colleagues. And before that, I only warned you about when you all kind of resisted. [[advertising from the hall]] Can I get you anything? Procedurally, yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u246	Since we now have a President of Parliament here, I would ask him if he considers that the word of Mrs Violeta Tomić is that we are mercenaries from abroad in the SDS, whether he considers it offensive or not. In fact, your Vice President says it's not an insult and it's by saying that. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u247	Colleague Jeraj, this is not a procedural proposal. I have told you before that I do not intend to intervene in the debates of Members from the presidency. If I were to get involved in every word you use, not you personally, but the Members, then I could interrupt everyone because something is offensive to me, which is not for you and vice versa. So do not put me in a less valuable position, although there stands Mr President, who will now replace me in leadership and not be incorrect. I've alerted you to order in the hall, and I'm not going to repeat it now because it's pointless. Once again, I will never get involved in substantive discussions, nor in the left, nor in the right. And your procedural proposal was not a procedural proposal. Now, if we can get this over with, he's got a word for it as the last Violet Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u248	Thank you for your word. I'm trying to preserve this topic that we're leading, but the attacks on the other side are quite, I'd say, sharp and, above all, not substantive. Yes, we've been talking for four hours, we've been talking, yeah, why environmentalists are important for the action, let's clean up Slovenia, why 150 years of firefighting is important, why Slovenian beekeeping is important, and why it's important that the U.S.A. report this, also that it has a legal basis to report it. I don't want to argue with the SDS if Mrs Shriner says she's an insult if I say the word SDS. Probably, yeah, feel in my voice how I feel about a client like that, but it's okay, I don't mean to offend you, I'm sorry. I just, say, monitor the media, you probably only read yours, and I see uncensored.si: Financial flows reveal Orban's money, a long list of violations of Orban and Polacks or something defending Janša – which has made us ashamed now recently and this big. [[…]] I don't think there's a debate here. Hungarian euros for media from SDS circles, money also in Macedonia – and these are different, Siol.net, you know. Slovenian laundry of Hungarian money at Ostro.si, Vezer.com – Orbanov money in Slovenia and Macedonia. Orbana wants to know where the Hungarian money is going for Prekmurje. And so on: We reveal to whom the Hungarian money went on this occasion. I'm sorry, I'm reading and I have the right to debate on the basis of what's available! And this is publicly available and, unfortunately, you obviously want these things not to be accessible to people, so that they don't read it to me, so that they have a media landscape so that they have very censored information. And yes, from your discussions and from what the addresses should look like at the STA, it is clear your tension that a great censor over all that the STA and RTV do needs to be. We do not agree with this and allow us to disagree democratically. We don't need to be the target of your attacks right now. Look, if you're quoting the code of ethics, you're already deceiving and saying what it doesn't say in this code, so it's a good thing that the president reads what's actually in these articles. It is so very difficult to fight or argue with someone who turns any argument, turns it, abuse is difficult, it is really hard to get to anything that could be, as my colleague Siter said, actually checking. [[…]] That's good. That's good. Some who watch and follow us say why all Members keep staring at phones. Let me make it public that this is the smallest computer that helps us monitor the meeting, discuss and Google and also make a fact check when we have discussions with anyone – with coalitions, say. So thank you for today's debate. It really lasted four hours. Now, to convince a certain one, you can't. I just want to really keep the freedom of the media to give the STA the legal basis and the basis for reporting on NGOs in English. It was their desire and their need. And I don't know why, then, if there was a need for an institution, they wouldn't move forward, because, as Mr Moskritch said before, just one word and it doesn't matter much. Yeah, if it doesn't matter, it can't hurt. So if the STA has found that it lacks this legal basis, then let's trust the people working there, trust the media, trust the independent institutions. We want them to remain independent and do them this little favor to change that one word, if that's what this little thing feels like. This way we will absolutely support this amendment of the law, and I hope that this time, in this round, we will get a majority in order to implement this urgently needed proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u249	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. Agenda item — Defence proposal for the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2019 The proposal for a final account was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the Proposal for a Final Account, i.e. Mrs Mag. Kristina Šteblaj from the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u250	the final accounts so far, the definition of macroeconomic baselines, the report on the realisation of the revenue and expenditure of the State budget, the budgetary deficit and the indebtedness of the budget, and, of course, the explanation of the major deviations between the adopted and realised revenue and expenditure, deficit and debt. [[turn off microphone]] In addition to explaining the general and specific part of the proposal for a final account, it also includes explanations of the development programme plan, the so-called third part of the budget, the balance sheet data and the report on the management of the Single Account cash and, of course, the specific table annex. All the explanations contained in these documents are compared to the 2019 budget rebalancing, which is also the last budget adopted for this year. I would like to present just a few key data for a broader picture of the Final Account proposal. Over the past year, 8.7 billion tax revenues, 646 million non-tax revenues, 95.4 million capital revenues received, grants and transfer revenues, and 726,9 million EU and other countries have accrued into the state budget. All total revenue was realised at EUR 10.1 billion or almost 98% of the planned amount. Perhaps just a few of the largest, most extensive revenues: billions and 391 million were collected from income, which means a good percentage of the lower realisation of this title than planned. The corporate income tax was 10.8 percent higher – this shows that business was good. The value added tax revenue amounted to EUR 3 billion 871 million, approximately 2 per cent less than the planned 2019 budget balance and still almost 115 million more than the revenue realised under this Title in 2018. A billion and EUR 543 million were collected from excise duties, which is the amount of the planned funds. A slightly greater shift on the revenue side is only about the funds received from the EU and other countries. These were realised in the entire year 2019 at EUR 727 million, which means little less than a quarter of the realisation planned. The biggest breakthrough was still demonstrated in the area of cohesion policy for the existing financial perspective. On the expenditure side, we record a 9 billion-euro consumption of EUR 911 million, which is about 2 per cent and half less than planned. Some of the largest categories are current transfers to public institutions, in almost 2 billion and a half euros, of which the largest public education, science and sport institutions, the second major transfer is, for example, a transfer to the pension and disability treasury, which is almost 1 billion euros and, of course, ongoing transfers to individuals and households of almost one and a half billion. Interest was realised at little less than €85 million and the budget surplus was almost €225 million. Maybe it's just information that's being used more than once. We have invested €510 million in the European Union budget, and we have received €727 million from the European Union budget. This would be a few key points for the introduction, if any explanation is needed in more detail and then below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u251	Thank you very much. The proposal for a final account was addressed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances. I give the floor to President Igor Peck to present the report of the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! The Commission for Public Finance Supervision shall meet at its 15th regular session on 4. 11. 2020 as a parent labour body considered the draft final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019, which was forwarded by the Government under Article 97, paragraph 5, of the Public Finance Act to the National Assembly for adoption. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance first presented the components of the final account in the introduction, comparing the key data with the current budget. In particular, it highlighted the budget surplus of €225 million; it estimated that the implementation of the budget was successful; the only way to draw on EU funds was to achieve less than planned, and this was also where the surplus of revenue over expenditure from the European Union amounting to 217 million was achieved. The representative of the Court of Auditors said that, following the revision of the Proposal for a Final Account, they had given a positive opinion in the general part of the final account and the opinion with reservation on the correctness of its execution due to non-compliance with the rules. He also said that they had also revised the balance sheet of the budget, where they had to reject the opinion because they did not receive the relevant data. This has been happening for years since they revised the balance sheet, but the situation is improving and according to the data available, the situation will be resolved in 2021. In the debate, the Members of the parties who formed a coalition in the previous term stressed that the budget was very successful, correct and effective in 2019. This is also evidenced by the Court of Auditors’ opinion, which is first positive for the regularity of the general budget. The former government acted with discretion and responsibility, despite the fact that the then opposition even submitted the budget documents for constitutional review and was rejected by the Constitutional Court. It was estimated that the current government coalition had received the country in a very good financial state and thus had been better able to tackle the problems posed by the covid-19 epidemic. They also considered that the final account was correctly written and thus showed the correct revenue and expenditure. Revenues were realised at an estimated level, which means that they were planned in real terms. The only revenue from the European Union was lower by 290 million than planned and still increased from 14 per cent to 31 per cent. Expenditure was also realised according to the plan, only transfers to individuals were lower. The maximum deviation in expenditure was for investment expenditure and investment transfers, which is linked to the use of funds. Members also drew attention to the fact that last year there was a nominal reduction in public debt of 620 million. Members of the coalition parties' commission estimated that the government does not have as much credit for the good state of the budget in 2019 as they state. They felt that the situation in the world and the countries around us was very good and that it was not too difficult for us to achieve good results. At the same time, members of the current opposition commission also warned that the results are significantly lower this year, public debt is increasing, 18 billion debt is planned in the next three years, and the budget deficit is projected at 4.2 billion euros this year. Following the consideration of the Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019, the Commission adopted the following conclusion: The Public Finance Supervisory Commission proposes to the National Assembly that, following its consideration under Article 168 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the final accounts of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u253	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u254	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! With the final account of the state budget for 2019, we will be able to record the past financial year as the last normal year; the financial year when the country achieved economic growth, employment growth and tax inflows; the budget, which has been designed since the stabilisation of the situation since the global economic crisis, taking into account fiscal constraints. Therefore, a surplus has been created in the State budget; therefore, public debt has been reduced, which has grown high due to the recovery of the consequences of the economic crisis. However, most of the funds for some key programmes have increased. It is also the only financial year for which the 13th Government of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible. When reviewing the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia, we can find that the former government of state finances has left it in a model order. However, the decisions to be taken for this achievement were not easy. The previous government had no excuse that action or spending was necessary because the epidemic threatened us. It could not rely on European rescue funds, fiscal constraints could not be avoided. Even when they were respected, the opposition at the time took into account the constitutional judgment and demanded a reduction in already limited spending. Priorities had to be decided in order to be able to submit regulated finances. The choice of priorities required victims in the form of some sub-financed policies and programmes, such as, for example, long-term and age care. But the previous government can submit clean accounts. It can stand firm in the view that it has treated limited resources conscientiously, rationally and economically. However, if certain areas were inoperably financed, it is because we simply did not have resources for them. However, it will be more difficult to understand the non-financing of certain programmes at the present time, when the Government claims that the bag from which it is taken does not even have a bottom. Once the time has come to compare the work of different governments, we will also have to take into account the circumstances in which the work was carried out. The former government can show numbers that it has acted economically and has tried to help with its best efforts, even though its resources have been limited. In the circumstances in which it worked, it achieved its public financial objectives and provided a transparent account. The state finances were good at the end of last year. If we did not leave state finances in this state, the current government would not be able to redistribute around €225 million through a relatively simple operation, which it has thus dedicated to the resolution of the coronary crisis. We hope that the current authorities will also be able to provide such a transparent review of their budgetary management. And in the wake of the proposal made by the Group of Social Democrats, we will unanimously support the conclusion that the accounts of the National Assembly for 2019 are in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mag. Dušan Verbič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u256	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Secretary of State, MPs, Members of Parliament, good-bye! The proposal for the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019 offers a final review of the budget implemented in the previous year. It expresses the final result of the budgetary policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019, which, in accordance with the Stability and Growth Pact and the fiscal rule, has followed the objective of reducing public debt and achieving the third budgetary surplus in the history of the Republic of Slovenia. The adopted 2019 budget was adopted during the previous government. On the basis of favourable economic growth, the revenue of the state budget was EUR 10.14 billion, which is less than the planned amount of EUR 217.2 million. However, expenditure was €9.91 billion, which is less than €248.4 million planned, so that a budget surplus of €224.8 million was reached and was more than €31.1 million than planned. In view of the relatively low realisation of the European Union's revenue compared to the planned one, we note the need to adopt a more active approach that will lead to the planned and successful use of European funds. But we must be aware that these funds are not lost. We can draw them all the way to the end of 2023. In addition, Slovenia trained the information system of the Government's Development and Cohesion Policy Service a few months ago, which, unfortunately, was a bottleneck in drawing. Among other things, in its audit, the Court of Auditors drew attention to problems related to the use or use of European funds. The latter also has an impact on the poorer implementation of financial plans, of individual budget users. However, we are pleased that the Court of Auditors, following the revision of the Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for the first time in 2019, gave a positive opinion on the general part of the final account, including an opinion with reservations on the correctness of its implementation due to non-compliance with the rules. The Court of Auditors also revised the balance sheet of the budget, where the situation is also improving, and according to the data available, the situation will be settled in 2021. If we capture all the data, we can conclude that the government, whose part of the SMC has also acted with discretion and responsibility. On this basis, we can see that the current government has taken over the leadership of the country in good financial condition and is thus better able to tackle or cope with the problem posed by the covid-19 epidemic. The positive side of last year's budget, however, is also reflected in data relating to the debt of the state budget. In 2019, the year saw a nominal decrease of €620 million, amounting to €8.56 billion at the end of the year, representing 59.5% of GDP. We agree, however, that in the past year, when the financial situation has been both with us and in the countries around us, in the European Union and in the world, it would be good and positive that this period should be used in particular to take some additional measures to ensure that our country is doing even better, such as de-Birthocratic measures, restructuring of tax policy, regulation of public sector employment and could also be listed. Since the final state budget account is an indisputable and enforceable fact about the good results of the previous government and because the Court of Auditors has not found any major irregularities, we will support the 2019 Draft Final Budget Account proposal in the Group of the Foreign Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Good evening. Auditors of the Court of Auditors issued a positive opinion for the general part of the 2019 Final Budget Account for the first time in history, which is certainly proof that the government of Marjana Sarca acted more transparently with budgetary resources last year than the government of Janez Janša does this year. With any new budget documents from the current government coming into the parliamentary procedure, we can read the Fiscal Council reports, which fails to warn the Government that the budgets for 2020, 2021 and 2022 do not even meet the basic standards of clarity and transparency of the planned use of public funds. In terms of transparency in budgetary revenue and expenditure planning, the 2019 budget is certainly an example which should be followed in the future by the government of Janez Janša. Nevertheless, in Levica, we do not think that nostalgic fetishisation of the good old fiscal sustainability, austerity policy and balanced budget is appropriate today. Compared to the 2020 budget, which foresees as much as €4.2 billion in deficits, the realisation of €225 million in surplus in 2019 at first sight appears to be some kind of gold standard that should be approached as soon as possible. We also often hear that the budget surpluses that we accumulated during the pre-epidemic period have made it easier to act at the time of the epidemic, but the reality is not that simple. The budgetary surplus in the pre-crisis period is, on the one hand, a reflection of high rates of economic growth, and with high GDP growth, the ratio between public debt and GDP is automatically decreasing. On the other hand, pre-crisis budgetary surpluses are also a reflection of a austerity policy that has negative effects on people's social and health security. While, prior to the crisis, the then opposition with the SDS and the NSI put in charge weak demands to assess the constitutionality of the budgetary acts, because the expenditure of the state sector was to exceed the limit laid down by the fiscal rule, we in Levika have repeatedly warned that the State should increase public expenditure on public health and long-term care, even at the expense of slightly smaller budgetary surpluses or slightly higher budgetary deficits. As today, even a year ago, we did not defend the boundless and irresponsible accumulation of budgetary deficits. That is why we have advocated an increase in corporate taxes and the wealth of the rich and opposed the tax burdens of employees with higher incomes, and therefore we have always strongly opposed spending public money on unnecessary weapons. However, we have always opposed saving at the expense of public health and other pillars of the social state, since we have always realized that saving in the field of basic pillars of social solidarity has both short-term and long-term adverse effects on society as a whole. The current crisis, which erupted due to the covid-19 epidemic, unfortunately proved that we were still right. We're at the peak of the second wave of the epidemic. In the United States and most European countries, with Slovenia at the helm, the number of hospitalisations of covid-19 sufferers reaches a record. Because of the lack of beds, the number of deaths is on the rise. It is significant, however, that according to the number of dead, it is the countries where, decades before the outbreak of the epidemic, the most aggressive were the privatization of health care, the saving of public health institutions and the relocation of health services to external private operators. A typical case is the United States. There are only 3 beds per thousand inhabitants in the public health system because of their malnutrition. In rare developed countries where privatisation has been curbed and a robust public health system maintained, the number of deaths remains comparatively low at the peak of the epidemic. A typical example is Germany, South Korea and Japan. Germany provides 8 beds and Japan and South Korea with more than 12 beds per thousand inhabitants. The lesson of the current crisis is that the public health, pension and education system and other pillars of the social state both at the time of the recession and at the time of the transition have an absolute advantage over the short-term objective of budgetary sustainability. The cruel irony is that in Germany, Japan and South Korea, which did not save on public health during the crisis, very strong public health systems allow the introduction of less stringent restrictive measures. This means less negative impacts on economic activity and the social situation of people and consequently lower budgetary deficits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek will present the position of the New Slovenia-Christian Democrats Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The adoption of the final budget account for the previous year is the last act by which the National Assembly concludes the financial year. The proposed closure of the 2019 budget of the Republic of Slovenia shows the difference between the 2019 budget adopted and the 2019 budget. The proposal for a final budget can be considered once it has been revised by the Court of Auditors and delivered an opinion on it. An integral part of each final account shall also be the aggregate balance sheet of the state budget, showing the funds and liabilities to their resources shown in the aggregate balance sheet. In 2019, 8.7 billion tax revenues, 636 million non-tax revenues, 95.4 million capital revenues, received donations and transfer revenues, and 726,9 million EU funds received, or other countries. Revenues were realised at EUR 10.1 billion, representing almost 98 per cent of the planned revenue. The Court of Auditors delivered a positive opinion in the draft general part of the 2019 Final Budget Account, because the errors found did not represent a greater extent than the threshold of importance, while the Court of Auditors, on the basis of the findings on the correctness of the implementation of the 2019 State budget in the work relating to government and budgetary users, delivered an opinion with reservations due mainly to non-compliance with the rules on salaries and other staff expenditure, in the area of non-compliance with the rules on the collection and payment of budgetary obligations, as well as non-compliance with the rules on the award of public contracts, the rules on the allocation of transfers and non-compliance with the rules on the collection of revenue from the State budget. Since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Health have not eliminated all irregularities identified during the audit, the Court of Auditors has requested them to submit a response report and has also made recommendations in the Court of Auditors to improve operations. In Novi Slovenija we believe that the closing account for 2019 is certainly a good basis for planning budgetary expenditure for 2021 and 2022, and it is essential that we have increased the items to which the previous government, the government of Marjan Šarc, has forgotten. With the adoption of the budget yesterday for the next two years, we have provided an additional 84 million for the average municipalities for higher quality of life for citizens and citizens, 400 million more for pensioners. We also provided an additional 11 million in the budget of the previous government to complete the two and start building five homes for the elderly. We have provided 75 million more for investment maintenance and construction of state roads, which is already reflected in our Savina Valley. We have dedicated 34 million more to the countryside. I could mention it, but let me just point out that this government has earmarked more than 54 million more than the previous government for the social protection programme and the disabled. We will support the final account in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u262	Have a nice hello to you all. Dear Secretary of State, President of the National Assembly, Fellow Member and Members of Parliament! The fact is that, for the first time in history, we have received a positive opinion from the Court of Auditors for the revision of the general part of the budget, where all the revenues and revenues of the State budget are visible. Clearly, we are properly and effectively in 2000 with public money. “In our opinion, the revised General Part of the Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019 is correct in all important respects, in accordance with the Public Finance Act, the Accounting Act and other rules, shows the revenue and expenditure of the 2019 budget”, the Court’s auditors wrote in their opinion. Otherwise, we can be satisfied with the numbers that are evident from the final account. If we look at the revenue, we find that they were realised practically on a level as planned. In particular, this applies to tax revenues that were realised even slightly higher than the plan, which means that we were conservatively realistic in the planning of revenue, which is the only right thing to do. The only derogation that the SAB party would wish was not on the income side is the realisation of European funds, which is 290 million euros lower than our plans. This is not an encouraging information, and in the SAB too, we would like to see the EU's realisation of funds higher. We are even more concerned about the fact that even in 2020 things are not moving any better despite the severe criticism of Mr Montenegro at the time he was a Member. But it is true that it is something to say and to realize something else. This is where Mr. Blacky's things are limping. At the time of the 2020 budget rebalancing, Mr Montenegro was less ambitious than our government for 130 million euros, which is bad. Even worse, the realisation of EU funds in 2020 will be much lower than your forecasts. But as has already been said, our government should be better here too, because the country is running out of time to spend European funds. As far as expenditure is concerned, I can tell that the story is quite similar to that on the revenue side. Here, too, in the vast majority of the funds were realised to the extent we planned. The largest deviations up, it is said that spending was higher than the plans, is reflected in individual transfers, at the expense of the unemployed and socially disadvantaged. It is, of course, important for the SAB that all those eligible for the aid of the State receive this. The maximum deviation downwards, which means that implementation was lower than planned, is visible in investment, investment and investment funds, which is largely linked to the EU and is valid for everything I have already said about it. As I mentioned at the outset, the closing account for 2019 is in some ways historic. Why, we're wondering. Because for the first time in history, the Court of Auditors' opinion is positive. Obviously, the former government knew about public money, and obviously we were able to do what was right, in accordance with laws, effectively and economically. Congratulations to all former ministers and ministers and, of course, to the President of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u263	The next is Robert Polnar, who will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u264	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The final budget account shall be the act of the State in which the projected and realised revenue and other revenue and expenditure of the State for the previous year are displayed. An integral part of the final account is also the aggregate balance sheet of the state budget, which shows the funds and liabilities to their resources. In the absence of audit evidence, the Court of Auditors of Slovenia rejected the statement of opinion on the balance sheet of the budget at 31. 12. 2019. The audit could not obtain sufficient and appropriate evidence to confirm the state of the underlying assets and claims on assets put into management. On the proposal, but only the general part of the final budget account, the Court of Auditors gave a positive opinion. The 2019 Final Account shall show some inconsistencies between the planned and implemented revenue and expenditure items. The revenue side was planned at €10 billion and €353 million with a budget rebalancing of €10 billion and €135 million, which is down by 217 million. In the revenue structure, tax, non-tax, capital and transfer revenues are achieved in the planned amounts, and on the revenue side they strongly deviate in the negative direction of the funds received from the European Union, which were estimated at €727 million and €18 million. Implementation was only 71.38% and the difference was 291 million euros. The projected budget expenditure for 2019 was set at €10 billion and €160 million, 252 million less than originally set out in the original version of €10 billion and €412 million of expenditure and expenditure at €9 billion and €91 million, which is less than planned for €248 million. Current transfers were lower by €113 million and investment transfers by €116 million. In the investment transfer structure, investment transfers to municipalities, which were projected at €249 million, amounting to € 144 million, amount to €105 million less. Members of the Desus Group point out two additional expenditure items, particularly current during the epidemic and the fall of economic activity. The co-financing of the pension fund from the State budget for 2019, so during the period of economic growth, was planned at EUR 970 million and executed at EUR 930 million, amounting to 40 million less. In the budgets, for example, which we adopted yesterday for the recession period, these expenditure amounts to a billion 337 million for the coming year and a billion 291 million for the year 2022. So for 400 million and 350 million more in each year than in 2019. The general budget provision was set at 45 million in the budget rebalancing and was not implemented. There was also no need for these funds to be used for unforeseen purposes for which no funds were provided in the budget. In the 2020 budget, the balance sheet, the level of these funds in the middle of the epidemic is set at billions and 33 million and in 2021 at 519 million. If I sum up; investment transfers to municipalities – less than 105 million, general budget provision not used at 45 million, co-financing of pension fund less than 40 million, total 190 million. The total budget surplus for 2019 is 225 million. In fact, nothing special, but at least something to be boasting about. The final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019 is a bookkeeping fact executed. The Ambassadors of the Desus Group will support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik presented the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u266	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us the final budget account for 2019. If we look at the implementation of the 2019 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the revenues amounted to just over €10 billion and the expenditure amounted to €9.911 billion. Budget revenue in 2019 was higher by 1.4 per cent than in 2018 and expenditure was higher by 4.7 per cent compared to 2018. In the revenue structure, the largest share is tax revenues of around €8.6 billion, with the highest expenditure being current transfers of more than €5.3 billion and current expenditure of €3.31 billion. Finally, the budget showed a surplus of €225 million. The Court of Auditors carried out a review of this and gave a positive opinion on the draft general part of the Final Account and the opinion with reservation on the correctness of the implementation of the State budget. The conclusion of the 2019 budget shows that European funds have been very poorly drawn, as we have repeatedly pointed out in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. More than a billion Euros of European revenue were planned and the actual realisation was just over €700 million. The revenue from the Structural Funds was less than 33.3 per cent, and for almost 50 per cent less revenue from the Cohesion Funds was drawn. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the most deserving economy for the surplus is the economy and the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have paid tax money. Therefore, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, I would like to thank the economy and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in particular for all taxes paid in 2019. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the 2019 Draft Final Budget Account.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Brane Golubovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group List Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u268	Thank you very much. That's a nice hello to you all! Whoever monitored the preparation and adoption of budget documents 2021/2022 could see that the government would charge the country 10 billion euros to deal with the crisis. Debt is necessary in these times. However, it is important for the Government, any government, to answer clearly questions such as: how much the state can owe, how much debt is still manageable, where projects and programmes will be earmarked, what multiplier effects will be achieved by this, and what investments will be repaid themselves, and how the state will repay or repay the debt, and to what extent this will affect the implementation of other laws or the laws of certain tasks of the State and of the municipalities, and, of course, how this will affect the State's investment. In the light of what has been heard in the budget debate in the List of Marjan Šarc, we believe that the current government does not have the answers to these questions. This means that the government is inadvertently and excessively indebted and is only looking at the expenditure side, but it is certainly not interested in income or income, which is very dangerous. It is therefore right to remind the current government outfit of how to deal with public finances; all four cash registers, state, pension, health and municipal, both for economic growth and for times of crisis. And in order for there to be no mistake, this is what every responsible government team should do. The government and its ministers are the guardians of public finances and must act in a responsible, transparent, efficient, cost-effective manner and with a view to future generations. As an example, the actions of the government of Marjan Šarca in 2019 can serve as a good example. This was the year for which the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia delivered a positive opinion following the revision of the General Part of the Final Account of the 2019 Budget. For the first time in the history of Slovenia, the Court of Auditors gave a positive opinion on some final account or general part of the final account. This is the year in which the minority government of Marjana Sarca created a budget surplus of EUR 225 million, significantly reduced public debt and stabilised the country, pension, health and municipal treasury, and made sure that work on the construction of the second track began to shift from a dead point to the construction of the third development axis. This was also the year in which we abolished a series of austerity measures by means of a rebalance; the austerity measures that had been in force until then. We have ensured an improvement in the material situation of recipients of social transfers and family benefits, regular and extraordinary reconciliation of pensions and a higher annual allowance; we have increased salaries, average municipalities, on the basis of an agreement. At the same time, this was also the balance of the budget, which was assessed by some so-called financial experts as unconstitutional and sent to the Constitutional Court for assessment. Among them was the current Prime Minister of the Government at the time, and in particular the current Minister of Finance in all things, so that I do not even mention the Members of the SDS and of the New Slovenia. The government's budget rebalancing of Marjan Šarc was then referred to as an unconstitutional, moral gamble, reminding us that we are living at the expense of our descendants, telling us that we are creating debts that will have to be repaid for 100 years. Let me just say for a moment that the country was in charge of 30 billion at the time, after the government's latest commitments, this will be 41 billion. And it turns out they don't know much about public finances in NSI and SDS. This year, the Constitutional Court, in its decision, made it very clear that the rebalancing of the 2019 budget, prepared and implemented by the government of Marjan Sarca, was not unconstitutional, was not unconstitutional. Surprisingly, it is almost bizarre that the unconstitutional balance was seen, despite having a surplus of 225 million and a reduction in public debt. It has been seen by people who are now in the government and will only be over-indebted in three years by the good 10 billion euros or, as I have already said, increased our public debt, our debt from 31 billion to 41 billion. Let me tell you something. Even such a huge debt would somehow be accepted in the Marjana Sharca List if they knew where these funds would be invested and how the state would repay them without jeopardising public health care, pension funds and the functioning of the state and the municipalities. In the debate on budgets 2021-2022, prepared by the government of Janez Janša, we have repeatedly warned that not only the expenditure side should be seen, but it is extremely important for the development and stability of the country. Where do we get the resources so we can do everything you can imagine? Dear colleagues and colleagues, public finances are a serious matter, not a set of wishes that you write in the book and boast that you have the best program. They require fewer politicians and more experts. Of course, policies and professions must be coordinated, as we have coordinated ourselves in the time of the government of Marjan Šarc, for example with representatives of the Ministry of Finance and cultural representatives, when we reduced VAT for the press and book. These were tough negotiations, even though we only negotiated for nine million euros. Not to mention the negotiations on compensation for contributions to the full tax burden of the regression and partial pay burdens or coordination on minimum wage. You always have to watch the expense when you give someone something. Unlike the current government team, where politics is at the forefront, we have also acted transparently, economically, responsibly and successfully in the previous government in the area of public finances. Like I said. This has been confirmed by the Court of Auditors with a positive assessment and the Constitutional Court has decided that everything is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and that the conduct and actions of some ministers of the current government cannot be said. In the Marjan Šarca List, which was run by the financial sector and the government in the previous term, we are proud that, in cooperation with the coalition partners and partners of the minority government, we were able to complete the rehabilitation of the public treasury, which was demolished by the other Janša government in 2012 and 2013. And that the government of Marjana Sharca has brought optimism, security and, above all, normality back to society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u269	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a final account. Andre Zabret has the word. [[She's not here.]] Joseph Horvat, Nova Slovenija. [[He's not here either.]] Then it's mag. Andrei Reich. [[He's not here either.]] Miha Kordish – absent. Jože Lenart, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u270	Thank you very much, Chairman. It is only right that we devote only a few words to this Final Account of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019, and I am somehow disappointed that today it is in such a small number – that the Members remain here. See, simply for that reason, respected colleagues and colleagues, because after many years of independent Slovenia it is a final account that can be an example not only for us back, but also for further, how the country can operate transparently for the benefit of all. Let us not forget what is a balanced budget of the Republic of Slovenia; not to forget what publicly sustainable finances are; not to forget what a budget surplus is; and not to forget how to repay in one year 620 million public debt. I'm afraid we won't be able to keep track of this in future closing accounts for a long time. In all of this, in the 2019 budget, we have, of course, eliminated the savings measures under the 2012 ZUJF so that we can start to recover from the accumulated tax money, of course. Of course, it's important, no, we haven't given out of any of our pockets as much as we have heard in the last days of these discussions, as we are now discussing that the government is giving everyone more. Unfortunately, the government of Marjana Sharca did not give in when it could. Today, we will probably hear a little differently, or we have already heard. So we returned to all those who contributed to the savings after the 2008 crisis, so they got more, not everything; as much as the economy created, and as much as it did to the state treasury. Thus, they received more or more in part, so that the pensioners, the public servants, the congregations, even raised the minimum wage to a decent standard of living. I think that was one of the greatest achievements that we could have done, what we did in this government. We've raised an untaxed regression. And respected colleagues and colleagues from the SDS party and, of course, New Slovenia, for what reasons did you then write a request to assess the constitutionality of the budget documents for 2019? That you saw in them a violation of the fiscal rule that the document was unconstitutional? The current Minister of Finance, Andrej Šircelj, himself, was an investor, stressing that when we request the constitutionality of the budget, we are faced with a first-class constitutional issue, whether this government will be a state of constitutional law or not. It is also about introducing discipline in the fiscal field or spending as much as it does. Those were his words. All this, of course, was said by the same Mr Andrej Šircelj, who will owe us 18 billion in these years, or 10.2 billion in these three years, when, of course, 8 billion outstanding financial liabilities will be repaid. And that. I am surprised by the position taken on the additions to budgets 2021, 2022 by one of the colleagues of the coalition Members who spoke of the three fiscal Council's mistakes, namely regarding public financial sustainability, which is said to be no longer important, and the limitation of public debt with the so-called golden financial rule, as well as the internal indebtedness of the state. That's what they say. All these valves should open today. In doing so, he mentions, of course, countries such as Italy, France, Spain, Portugal, even Greece, which are in debt to 150, 200 and even beyond the debt to GDP created. By the way, Slovenia also financed one of these countries so that it did not go bankrupt in the past. I hope you haven't forgotten this because these funds have not yet returned to our treasury. By the way, Slovenia has repaid the last debt from Austro-Hungarians in this millennium. Some year ago, Finance Minister Andrej Bertoncelj, in the government of Marjana Sarca, stressed this when he presented the budget documents 2019 and the projections for the following years. I hope you remember that and you've traced it. Well, and we have shown in the government of Marjan Šarc that it is also able to lead the country's policy, as demonstrated by the Final Account of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. So we've realised revenue of 10 billion and 140 million. That's 217 million less than planned. Indeed, less largely for less European funding, however, is more used than paid. Of course, these funds are not lost, we must not forget this, and they will be welcome in these crisis years, as they can be exhausted by 2023. We always forget to say that when these criticisms fall, and today I want to put numbers very realistically in this place so that we can all hear them well. Yes, on the other hand, expenditure of 9 billion 910 million, which is also 248 million less than planned and thus reached a surplus of 224.8 million, which is 31 million more than planned, amounting to a surplus of 0.5 percent of GDP. In all this, we have shown that in 2014-2019, in fact, GDP growth was twice faster than the European Union and three times faster than that of parade Germany. So we were able to do more in all of this. Dear colleagues, what's important about everything? The first final budget account in Slovenia alone, which was given a positive opinion by the Court of Auditors, without reservation! This is an important and important incentive for politics – any one. Yes, even with a few reservations that you will not say that we do not know how to admit this to government budget users who have been removed within the required deadlines. You know, I have to remind you, I am subject to the rule if an auditor, an inspector in control, does not detect any irregularities, then I am also not well controlled by them. I would also like to draw attention to the great efforts made by the Government of Marjan Sarca to improve the health situation. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we demand from health care that we have the same quality services that Austria has, even though Austria generates as much as 103 000 added value per employee. However, we have come from growth in recent years to 47 000 per employee. That's only 45 percent relative to Austria. As these sources of taxes are also for health bills, it is clear that we are raising so much less money for a citizen. Yes, for so many of us there are lower salaries, and the fact is that the costs of building hospitals, purchasing equipment and medicines are similar to those of our neighbours. Why do we also have health care at such a high level and are also envied by countries in the West? See, simply because our public health model gives the most rights to citizens and citizens. Let's not forget this, my respectable colleague and colleague. If we continue to attempt to disrupt public health, health care will not collapse and access to health services will be undermined, especially for those vulnerable groups, both after poor health and those who cannot pay for such services. Why I am talking about other cash registers today – because then we have to cover the deficits from this budget register. Look, if I mentioned public health, I also want to mention public education. This is where I'm going to compare with neighbouring Austria for the sake of understanding. Why can our Slovenian children learn free of charge in virtually all Austrian schools – secondary and higher education? Not only Slovenian children, all children of the territory of the former Austro-Hungarian and its provinces. Simply because knowledge is that added value, that investment that ensures the development of each economy. Without that, of course, there can be no real development. So it is reasonable and necessary to invest in knowledge. This brings about an increase in GDP, added value and, of course, higher revenues for all state treasury; budgetary, pension, health and, of course, cash-flows for the financing of municipalities. Yes, many moves will still have to be made in order to keep young people home who have been educated in the Slovenian educational system, so that we do not lack the necessary staff in all areas and that they will not go abroad, of course. To conclude, colleagues and colleagues, we still have difficult projects waiting for the long-term sustainability of public finances, which we keep mentioning and passing on. This is the problem of this ageing society, which requires mainly pension and health reform, especially for the care of the elderly. And allow me once again to reflect on the budget documents 2020, 2021 and 2022 that we have adopted these days. Despite the current crisis and warnings by both the European Commission and the Fiscal Council, the government of Janez Janša has placed the counters of this spending, expenditure very high. I think it's too high. With such a counter, it is clear that the budget deficit will continue to accompany Slovenia for years. Until, of course, the economy with the added value – and of this, of course, of these taxes in the budget registers – reaches expenditure or expenditure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik has the word, and Vojko Starović is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u272	Vice President, distinguished Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, good evening! The fact is that this 2019 budget or final account simply shows that the 2019 budget was the best in our country's history. As has been said several times before, the Court of Auditors also gave a positive opinion on this document for the first time. For this budget, the 2019 budget was entirely and is still the responsibility of the 13th government, this is the government of Marjana Šarca, in which we participated Social Democrats, SMC, Desus, Alenka Bratušek Party and so-called Supercoalic Left. This is something similar to what you now have, for example, a subsidiary of the Slovenian National Party. In 2019, the country achieved high economic growth, employment growth, the fall in unemployment, tax inflows also increased and a budgetary surplus was created, which was mentioned in the opening presentation by the Secretary of State. I think the figure is 225 million budget surplus. We've also been reducing public debt, I think we've been around for about 66 percent. Now, in six months, this public debt has increased to about 83 percent, but here I say to the right-wing government that there is no other way. You've decided to spend, and I think you've made the right decision. I don't think you're always going to come out of the opposition bench with criticism, but I think you've made the right decision because nothing else is going to happen to you, to us, no matter what. In short, the fact is that the 2019 budget led by the government of Marjan Šarc also required some difficult decisions. In 2019 and in the preparation of the budget, we had no excuses that we were in crisis because there was no crisis, we were not able to rely on EU funds, and, unlike now, we had fiscal constraints. Now fiscal rule, as we have repeatedly discussed, including when adopting budget 2021,2022, has already been repeated several times. It must be said, however, that in all these facts that I have now listed, another year and a half ago, one year and a half ago in the then opposition, the current coalition panicked, filed constitutional opinions, demanded an additional reduction in spending, which was anyway limited. Now we can find out and draw the conclusion that this was unfair on your part at the time. You can probably admit that now. You started the whole circus, even though the budget was far from the best. I can't imagine the reverse situation or imagine it, because at the time of the biggest crisis, Pahor's government was doing the same thing as you are doing now and you wanted the then Prime Minister on the Prešeren market to burn or burn it. This is my only concern to you that once in the future there will be a similar situation in which you are now right-wing parties, you will be a little more receptive to those left-wing parties when we may lead those governments. Just sort of for the sake of it, and we just have the same vat at certain conclusions. Another fact is that if the government of Marjan Šarc, the so-called left-wing government, public finances or state finances, did not leave in such a very good condition, then today we would not have the opportunity to spend as much as you spend. And once again, it's the right decision, it's not criticism. And once again, the previous government has left 252 million euros in surplus, which I do not think will happen in the next decade, certainly not. And after this decade, I hope that we can somehow get close to it. When adopting budgets for 2021 and 2022, I told yesterday or the previous one that it was right that you decided to spend. Although I'm a little concerned about transparency, we'll draw conclusions in about six months, one year from now. I hope that you will be able to submit such a transparent review of the budget for 2021 as we have been able to submit all the documents for 2019. Finally, let me just say that I wish you good luck and good luck in using these funds. For if those of you who are now in power succeed these moves, then the country will do well and better, which, after all, is what we all probably want regardless of the political definition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u273	Thank you very much. I'm supposed to get the word now, Vojko Starović, but he's gone. That's why the next one gets the word "magic." Bojana Muršič, prepare the mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u274	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. It's going really fast today. I have to say, I've been sitting in the National Assembly for six years, monitoring the final accounts. and I can really join my predecessors' opinion that for the first time and even the first time in the history of Slovenia, we have received a positive opinion from the Court of Auditors on the balance sheet of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This is certainly not negligible, and we can be content. The positive opinion for the so-called general part of the budget, which shows all the revenue and expenditure of the state budget, shows that the budget has been set up correctly. Moreover, the Court of Auditors finds that the functioning of the former Government has been correct and effective, which is also not negligible. I sincerely hope that the current government will also act in such a way as to deal properly, effectively and transparently with tax money. The historical budget is also from the point of view, since 2019 was a normal year when the country achieved economic growth, employment increased, the tax inflows were constantly boiling, so I will say, they were good, and finally the stability of the situation has proven to be. Unfortunately, the current government does not have this option, because the coronavirus has done its job and the question is, where will all of this lead to? But since we are talking about the closing account 2019, we really can once again be satisfied. At the end of the year, the state budget showed a surplus of €225 million in 2019 and this surplus was still needed by the government when we faced the crisis of March, when it took over power, so that it could react quickly and start to solve the situation. The conditions are not ideal, far from it, and I certainly don't envy what's happening in March. At the time, however, the measures were successful, they acted properly and properly, and decisions were taken on time. While there is a slightly different situation in this second wave, despite the fact that everyone should learn something from the first wave, then prepare for this second wave, which was foretold by your government, no matter what others have predicted, I believe — and also from your mouth it has been heard — that another wave is waiting for us. But it is true that this second wave may have caught up with us a little too quickly, just in early October, and I think it was already showing up there in September, and these were a little lost opportunities. Perhaps if any measures had been taken in due time, the situation today would have been slightly different and would not have had such an increase in infections. But again, it's a different story. I would return to the 2019 budget – I mean to the final account, I apologize – when public debt fell. However, it was noted in the budgets that the funds for key programmes had increased, however, including the budgets of local communities or the averages. In comparison to 2018, when the average was EUR 551, it was 573.50 in 2019. This means that we have also followed the local communities at the next point, which we will consider today, the burden of the congregations. The Sharčev government has already recognized the need to help local communities, which are the only ones, the first engine to start economies in individual local communities and the first to feel the needs of the local population. This is also followed by this government, and I am absolutely pleased to say that I am pleased that at the next point we will talk about the burden of the congregations. This is one step forward, one step in the right direction, and I believe that we will all be attached to it. If I look still at the revenues and expenditure in 2019, which were largely realised at the estimated level as planned by the rebalancing. That is also what the Secretary of State said in her opening statement. Of course, I cannot pass the so-called criticism, but we still had a departure from the plans to draw on European funds and related projects in the 2019 accounts. But even though we did not draw as much resources as anticipated, it is important to point out that in recent years we have benefited from 14 percent of the drawback, and in 2019 we have increased this amount by more than once, amounting to 32 percent. This is also not negligible, so as on one side of the criticism, she is commended. I will say that the current figures on drawing on the European funds that are now are, however, do not optimist us. Otherwise, I sincerely hope, and this hope dies last, that the Minister of Cohesion speaks much, promises much, and time will show that he can do so too. And at the end of the year, I will be very happy to look at this budget item and also at the realisation where we will be. Also, if you will allow me, it is not too much to add that, on the draft plan for the use of future Brussels money, the European Commission has made strong comments, because the draft did not follow the digital and developmental breakthrough of Slovenia, but I sincerely hope that this draft Government of the Republic of Slovenia has fixed and sent a better proposal to Brussels and we are looking forward to these funds that will be available to us. However, I can also say firmly what the Court of Auditors has also proved that the former government has dealt with the budget conscientiously, rationally, economically, also transparently, and what is extremely important is that public debt has also been reduced. Of course, we were also bound by a fiscal rule during that period, and some programmes were underfunded, but it is all so directed that we just need to weigh a little bit and see where we need to add a little more. It was found that more money should be given to local communities. Some were then given a little less. This government is simply sharing funds outside the fiscal rule framework, which I must say is also commendable at the time of the epidemic, and I believe that it is not easy for you. I hope that at the end of the year we will also have a transparent and economic budget, which we will talk about in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u275	Thank you very much. It's the last two debaters, both from the SAB, we finally got them. He'll get the word "magic" first. Andrej Reich and Vojko Starović are behind him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u276	That's it. Thank you very much. We did do a little hunting in the beginning. There's been a lot of checks out, but now we're all here together, and we're still going to talk. As already mentioned in the position, the historical closing account for 2019 is in some ways historical. Why, we're wondering. For the first time in the Court of Auditors’ opinion that it is ready, and for the first time in history, the Court of Auditors gave a positive opinion. And it is obvious that the previous government was able to work economically, efficiently and so on with public money. But now I would like to touch on the essence through a review of our three ministries, which were under the responsibility of the SAB party, so I am talking about the Office of the Government for Slovenians in place and around the world, the Office of the Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy, and not least about the Ministry of Infrastructure. As far as the Office for Slovenians is concerned, in place and around the world, there was a ministry in question, which is not a real ministry, because it does not have its own legislation, practically everything that was envisaged by law and by tasks. It is true that they wanted more money at the Ministry, but they did realize the historic project of repatriation of 50 Slovenk and Slovenes from Venezuela. This is a historic project and proof that the motherland of its exiles never forgets. As far as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia’s development services and European cohesion policy are concerned, this is in fact also one ministry, which is not a real ministry, is in the past, and is also now facing certain difficulties in drawing funds, but it is not practically responsible for these problems, but in fact it is a bad or ineffective implementation of projects, which is mainly linked to long-term placement procedures, consensus-building and, last but not least, related to the broadcasting of works, i.e. complaints of tenders. As has already been said, in the SAB party, we are also not most pleased with the drawdown rate, which has been lower than planned, but we are certainly pleased that the share of the allocated funds this year, for which our client or minister from our quota or several ministers from our quota, has risen from 14 to 31 percent, and this is a huge leap. Slovenia has jumped from a country that has been sub-averagely successful to an area of countries that are above average successful, which is, of course, a reason for satisfaction. Another reason why the Minister of the SAB quota was inflamed, expected, of course, is the threat posed by the failure of the e-MA information system and the permanent loss of cohesion funds of EUR 180 million. This problem has also been resolved by our ministers, the information programme has finally been duly verified, so that at the beginning of this year, we were commended by the European Commissioner that the work programme was finally as envisaged and, more importantly, 180 million cohesion funds have been resolved. The next Ministry, which was essentially under the auspices of the SAB, was the Ministry of Infrastructure and at the Ministry of Infrastructure implemented virtually everything planned in 2019. This is also confirmed by the financial realization of the Ministry and in fact the realisation was even 100 million more than in the previous year 2018. This means that even 11 percent was higher than the previous year. However, we could do even more if there were no difficulty in transferring funds from one year to another, so we are talking about unused funds from the Ministry, even this year could happen, and also in this context we have tabled a law in the SAB party in a legislative proposal or procedure that would allow the establishment of an infrastructure fund. This means that we would finally have one fund at the Ministry to follow the investments of the six-year solid plan in which these infrastructure resources would be deliberately collected. And this year too, the Minister of Infrastructure will face difficulties in transferring these funds and, of course, this may also affect the implementation of projects. That is why we also call on Minister Vrtovac to establish this infrastructure fund as soon as possible, so that these difficulties in transferring funds from one year to the next. But as has already been said, despite the obstacles, the ministry has been very successful, has carried out more than 360 projects, built and renovated as many as 260 km of roads and 40 km of railways. It is very important for me to close the financial structure for the second track project and the third development axis. The second track has actually started to build, also the third development axis and this is of course a sign of one optimism. However, we would like to see that in the past there are no speculations — we know that because of the various referendums, which were also sponsored by certain political options, the beginnings of these projects have been delayed. This, of course, is felt now, in this economic crisis, because otherwise economic activity would also be greater if these projects started some year earlier. Let us even remember the two referendums on the second track. After many years of illegal status, the ministry also eliminated illegality in the Maribor area, so, from the wine system, a fast road through Maribor is finally exempted and I am very proud of it as a Mariborian. The Ministry also dealt with important environmental projects. This means, by reducing greenhouse gas emissions from transport, it introduced a single ticket for trains and buses and even introduced a free ticket for pensioners over 65 years of age, war veterans and disabled persons in cross-border traffic, and this benefit has benefited more than 150 000 users, so that this is proof that the measure was favourable, smart, rational and more than necessary. We would also like this project to continue in the SAB, this is also in the area of urban transport. We have put in place appropriate legislative procedures, which unfortunately did not come across approval in Parliament, but we also stress on this occasion that we will continue to fight for free urban transport in all Slovenian cities. I could count it, but that's enough. In short, the financial realization in 2019 of the Ministry of Infrastructure, with its realization we can be more than satisfied and we only wish that Minister Vrtovec will do so well in 2020. As I mentioned at the outset, the previous government was able to work well with public money, in accordance with laws, effectively and economically, so that on this occasion I congratulate all former ministers and ministers and, of course, the then Prime Minister, Mr Sharpe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u277	Thank you very much. The last one is Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u278	Thank you, President, for your word. I must also say that I am proud of the 2019 final bill, which we have successfully brought and also saved on the budget. What does that mean? Look, if you're in charge of something, it's very important how much money you borrow so you can manage. If I look at it, we've reduced the interest payments. You can imagine, 10 percent of the budget was about interest! In 2019 we paid 784 thousand interest – oh no, sorry, I apologize – 784 million for the previous year, for this year there are 776, for the following year 2021 702 million and then over 630 million. So interest, I'll tell you, if you own, anywhere, if you do anything, it's very important. Each of these digits — what does each of these numbers tell you? For each of these figures, I could arm an army if we go through. So once you owe the country and pay that kind of interest, it's bad, and we've been following it to reduce the country's debt, and that's what we've been doing. Since the government of Alenka Bratušek, this has succeeded in reducing the public financial debt that we have paid less interest in all these years each year. I noticed something in yesterday's debate, and I'm sorry if you guys are here, but there were debaters who don't separate expenses. I don't know, I was one of the few debaters when I discussed the Budget Implementation Act. There's no more talk about spending, but it's about spending, limiting the ceiling. I like to say it, I like to say that knowledge that you will understand. Because it means something? If we now owe ourselves in the coming years for a lot of cheap money, but this money will have to be returned once. And then these are expenses, they're not expenses, they're not expenses. The budget will still be balanced as to revenue, expenditure, but if you have to repay the debt, it is expenditure that is not expenditure. It's to be separated. It is not easy to rule, and it is for me to kill the sovereignty of Slovenia. If you're in charge, you're assigned by others. When we were in charge years ago, others told us what we had to sell, which companies for the benefit of some multinationals, foreign companies and so on. Always for the benefit of some foreigners. We're dictated by others if you're in debt. Let us understand this quite simply. I will repeat again; in these duties, our aim should be to pay as little as possible for interest. Fortunately, we changed something years ago. We used to pay interest abroad, but now we're mostly in charge of the home market. So someone at home is serving at the expense of the state. Maybe that makes you a little unhappy, but I'm happy. It is better for the locals to serve with the interest they lend to the country than the foreigner, because it is an outflow from the country, but if you pay the interest at home, these outflows remain from the budget — on the other hand, there are inflows that increase consumption. It's one of those patterns of management logic. And this is where I'm getting closer to the logic of the company. If we were in debt, I had to know where I'd get the money back. That is why I also discussed yesterday if we invest in the future in the military — what is the problem? It's no problem if we still had a living TAM that we destroyed. Or Photono, top military cannon control industry, laser. It was top of the line, so we sold it. Catastrophe! We have been ferdibbing without a relationship, which is a top-notch vehicle, perhaps he could make us these compost armors with that knowledge and knowledge. No, we've wasted. What that would mean – if we invested in military equipment at home, that money would turn home, it would be an investment that turns around, like investment in roads, investment in railways, investments in sewers, and they turn home because this money is turning around. But when we buy weapons elsewhere — what happens there? In all economic colleges, they teach that there are few papers and the highest fees and the highest profits in the arms trade. I don't know. So at this point in time, to be in charge of the army, I think it's a wrong policy, a wrong thinking. Again, let us be proud of the year, for the achievements we have made, in 2019. I was chairman of the Labour Committee that year. There we had planned some revenue and some expenditure, and when I tried to keep it at some level, I was attacked, on these committees, so that we should spend more. But you can't because you're ruining your future. You must be in that frame you discussed, and I am proud that the Court of Auditors also said for the first time in the life of this Slovenia that we have done well. But after all, we did some things. Since we increased the dose percentage from 57 per cent to 63 per cent, we have had regular and extraordinary coordination of pensions, free transportation, as my colleague has already mentioned, in public transport, we have raised minimum wages. Now there's a rumor that minimum wages can't grow as they've grown. See what we do with this; we reduce consumption, we'll have problems again. Companies will have no one to produce for, they will have no one to work for if you do not have a consumer and we have this problem here. That is why I have also welcomed a little bit of these new budgets, which mean debt, because the country can at most be indebted, this is a fact that is much cheaper than companies and so on, and has committed itself to increasing spending. Because spending needs to be increased if we want our companies to have a job and to be able to employ people. That's right. Keynesianism is that, quite simply. Without spending, without money, without consumers, you have nothing to sell. That is how I think that – I am not saying now that this excess is negative when the budget goes away – is not so bad. But if I hear the debaters talking about how we planned, that's so stupid that I have to say that stupidity is non plus ultra, that we've spent less on pensions than we planned on the budget, we've spent less on pensions for 200 million and that's all. Well, thank God it's the pensioner who's supposed to cover the pension! As employment was higher, contributions were higher and fewer contributions had to be made from the budget. I don't know if one of them is talking about it being a sin, and then it is true, and even though he may be the chairman of an important committee, he can't act like one. Let it go where it's positive – it's amazing, no. Okay, one more time. It would be great if we still had such budgets ahead. This fellow has screwed us up, I do not now accuse this government and my colleagues and all of you who have taken this budget into account – even though you have not taken our comments into account at any time. I'm not accusing you of anything. It is necessary to resolve, and this is where the state has to help. And thank God that this orientation changed, because sometimes it was the orientation that you had to squeeze wages, you had to squeeze pensions, you killed consumption, you killed industry and so on. The logic has turned. The country is here to react and help in such cases, and I must say that I welcome this. But I do not welcome investing in things that will not lead to a solution from the crisis. I'm sure in these years, when the crisis is going to be, investing somewhere outside, giving money for something that has no connection, which doesn't help anything, which won't make any new revenue, is, really, it's crazy non plus ultra. Let us all imagine and watch and manage this budget and act on successful and good experiences, not bad. Let us act on what benefits us and benefits us. And this 2019 budget is the right one, and it's fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u279	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I see you don't. That is why I conclude the debate. We will decide on the proposal for a final account in accordance with the timing of the assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. AT THE TIME OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE FINANCIAL EXPLAINMENT OF COMMUNITY IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister of Public Administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u280	Dear Members and Members! You have before you the proposal for a law on the financial burden of municipalities. This reduces the costs of municipalities for statutory tasks, reduces administrative burdens and increases certain revenue of municipalities. You know that the path of this law began years ago, even in the mandate of my predecessor, and it meant a great step in the right direction, in the direction of finding a systemic and sustainable solution, because the municipalities themselves had to cover the costs of the tasks imposed by the state. Among other things, in the basic text, the law proposed an intervention, i.e. an intervention in nine laws, and it would regulate a lot of things, including the payment of health insurance to the unemployed, which would be according to a new – and I hope that, according to the new – state budget, it would reduce the costs of municipalities by 19 million and a half. The funding of the family assistant is taken over by the country, reducing costs by €7.9 million. The funding of the mortuary transparent service is transferred from the municipalities to the country, which means a reduction of approximately EUR 3 million for municipalities. The production of land-use certificates will also be paid for notaries, and higher revenues from municipalities will be about a quarter of a million euros. The municipality will be able to adopt multiannual adult education programmes, which is an administrative burden. All of these basic solutions included the relief or higher revenue of municipalities by €31.6 million per year. At the same time, we have prepared amendments to the ZFRO at the Ministry at this time, which constitute an additional effect, i.e. a total of €39.3 million per year for the municipalities. During the solutions, I should point out the following: the co-financing of municipalities with the Roma population means EUR 6.05 million gradually over four years; the simplification of the short-term indebtedness of municipalities to the single treasury account does not, however, have financial implications, but has huge administrative burdens for municipalities; the establishment of resources to balance the development of municipalities with 6% of the eligible consumption, which means for municipalities in 2021 an additional EUR 25.9 million; the funding to subsidise non-profit rents to applicants in full is provided by the State following this proposal, which means a reduction of EUR 5.5 million per year in the costs of municipalities; the obligation to pay for accident insurance, liability insurance and legal protection for fire services is also taken over by the State and the reduction of the costs of municipalities is therefore EUR 1.9 million. The total financial impact of the ZFRO and the amendments will therefore be almost €71 million annually. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that this is not the final step towards solving the problems of local self-government, which has proved to be crucial in this epidemic at all. I therefore thank the mayors and mayors who have shown themselves in this epidemic, with whom we have so constructively sought solutions, and I hope that you will support this effort by supporting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u281	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branku Grims. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u282	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! At its 31st emergency meeting on 4 November 2020, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the draft Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. In an extensive debate, all the debaters agreed that this was an important law that corrected the injustice that had taken place for many years when new and new obligations had been imposed on the municipalities, but that was not provided with adequate resources, which is also contrary to the principles of local self-government as set out in European Union legislation. With regard to the proposals that have been made to improve and increase these facilitations, which will allow municipalities to invest more so as to have more in their own development and thus to carry out their mission in the field of local self-government, several amendments submitted by the ruling coalition have been adopted, while the amendment tabled by Mr Baković has become irrelevant since he has essentially gone towards preserving the regulation so far in the law and has not been voted on in the light of the amendments adopted. The whole law is now designed to allow for a really big burden. This, of course, means that more is left for the congregations. This means that they will be able to invest in further development of what the municipalities are intended for, and at the same time leave enough room for them to interfere effectively with European funds and thus allow for even faster development, while European funds are provided at a level thanks to the current government, as we have never before in Slovenia. Given that virtually all the Members and Members present agreed that this is a law that allows for faster development and fully allows for the further development of local self-government and that the former, current government, as well as the Council of State and, of course, all the interested Slovenian municipalities, have participated, I propose that the law be fully approved and adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Since the 21st meeting held a general debate on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. Before opening the debate, I suggest that you stick to the debate on amendments and not to other content. I am putting to the debate Article 17a and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate article 18c and the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? He does. Anyone else? [[advertising from the hall]] 18c. Dusan Šisko has the word first and then Predrag Baković. Ma'am, you too? Natasha the Sukich then. First Dushan Shisko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u284	President, thank you for your word. The new law enjoys the support of local communities, municipalities, representative associations. It is a step in the right direction to correct certain shortcomings and anomalies that have so far burdened municipal budgets. However, since something strange is written in this Article 18, we have tabled an amendment in the Slovenian National Party, and I will tell you why. Because the municipalities mentioned in this article – and I will read, Brežice, Ivančna Gorica, Ribnica, Škocjan, Šalovci – do not have a municipal councillor, do not have a legalized settlement, all other municipalities, I think there are 14, 15, have municipal councillors and also legalized areas. I'm going to give you an example from Krske, when when this started, we were given the task of amending the statutes and holding elections for the Romani councillor. At that time, I was sitting alone in the municipal world, and on the first pingpong ball, of course, the municipal council, including the mayor, did not want to confirm this. After the dispatch has arrived in time, I will say, from the government, that it is a condition that we receive money and that we have to change legislation and that we have to call elections for a councilman in the next elections. In view of the fact that the laws of this congregation — the five congregations that I have previously counted — do not have a regulated status but receive money, we propose that by 2022 the five congregations mentioned also change legislation and that they have a municipal councillor in the elections in 2022. For, last but not least, you will not believe, today we all got on the bench – the Forum of Roma Councilors of Slovenia sent us a letter. I'll just do one extract. I'll read it to you where it says. “It makes sense for us to be able to benefit from these funds by those municipalities which in the municipal council have representatives of the Roma communities in accordance with the law governing local self-government. The fact is, according to the current proposal, some municipalities, which have in the municipal councils representatives of the Roma community, will be placed in an unequal position. These municipalities also have certain obligations, and by adopting this provision of the law they would finally obtain rights, but municipalities with Roma settlements without Roma saints would only be granted rights without obligation." And you have to imagine that the Roma saints themselves are proposing this, and now we're going to be giving some money to congregations that don't want to have Roma saints. People of God! It's a really late hour, but let's think about it! I'm not saying they won't have the money, but let's let them. The subcommittees themselves come to the Roma saints, tell us a lot of what's going on. We say that the office – look, I don't give a shit when I hear about the office – gets 650 thousand euros that it distributes, but no one knows exactly where this money goes. I'll say it like my colleague used to say, "You listened to me. Thank God. I believe, even when I go to mass, I don't know if it's going, but thank God! I am now the fourth president of the subcommittee, and we have just received three weeks ago only a table that First President Anja Bah Žibert requested on the subcommittee, where these funds go, and we have not received them from this office. And he was a Pretzel, and he was a Boyana. Now we got it when I had a position there, not long ago. But you know! The Roma themselves want the money to go into the infrastructure. And I'm going back to Krsko again, what problems we've had. He who knows Krška knows where Trška Gora where Narpel is, I see the nuclear power plant well, I see Kerin's Grim, and I asked the former mayor, including the former MEP, Mr Bogovic, that I do not see the skyscraper on this plane. Do you know why I asked him? 52 people were reported on one water counter, 52 people, families, were reported on electricity. And you won't believe it. The Christian congregation has legalized this area. They've got a gilded area. They have a kindergarten. They have a kindergarten in Kerin's Grem. Why not have the other congregations? I hear there's five or six families out there, and they're already considered a settlement. Well, not just that. When I think about it a little bit more, when I think about it, and these very Roma saints want some progress, at least they want to join us in part and we will not allow them to do so. I'm more in favour of this money when we get that minister one, the minister two, the minister three, of course announced inside, not unannounced, because if he comes to a strange village in Dolenjsk, Posavje, he might go home with a broken car, and it would be a shame. But let him come down and see the situation. They drive cars worth 40, 50 thousand euros, and children walk barefoot in settlements. But to return to this amendment that we have tabled, and I believe, my fellow Members, I will not ask you to do so, but think carefully, because it is nothing misleading. Nothing is deceiving. I am truly sorry that it is not possible for even a representative of this Roma community, or this forum, to tell themselves what they want. So much for now, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u285	Thank you very much. The word is Predrag Bakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u286	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I will discuss in this context, such as my colleague Dušan, by perhaps having to go back a little and take a historical look at how these things have actually been formulated and somehow legalised. If we know that the Law on the Financing of Municipalities has been adopted somewhere, I think that 2006, where it was first stated in article 20, that, already, municipalities in an area in which settlements with national mixed population or with a permanent Roma ethnic community are provided from the State budget with funds for financing and bilinguality and the exercise of constitutional rights. And so on. So, this provision has been, I'll say, 10, 11 years in this marriage, but it's never gotten into life, never got the money to try to reconcile and regulate the topic of the Roma. And what happened? This provision went out in 2017. However, if we look back in 2007, the Law on Local Self-Government was passed, where it was also somehow mentioned, which are those municipalities that have indigenous Roma communities. This was 20 congregations, including Kočevje and Krško and so on. I must say, I remember these things, how some congregations have warmed up to have indigenous Roma communities. Of course, Roma have been in their territory for 50, 60 or more years. For example, for Kočevje I know that Kočevje has been there since the beginning of 1900 for sure Roma already present and the autonomy in this way to determine actually doesn't even make sense. And at the time of the adoption of this law on local self-government, of course – these 20 municipalities – were obliged to ensure and prepare everything for the elections, special elections, to somehow formulate the institution of the Romani saint. This was mostly done by all the congregations except, I think, Grosuplje, not where the Constitutional Court even intervened, and the Constitutional Court also decreed that they should do so, and then somehow they do and they have this Romani councilman. I must say, all these congregations have the expense of doing so. With the payment of a meeting of the Roma Councilor, they have the costs, with payment or with all the infrastructure, and in a different way, offered by the Commission to monitor the situation of the Roma Community, some pay meetings to these commissions, not only to Roma, who must be a member of this Commission, but also to all other members. These are the costs that these congregations have had, say and write, from 2007 to today. And those were the obligations. These were obligations imposed by law and had to be fulfilled by the congregations. Today, we are adopting a law that will also give them rights; the right to some resources. And if we can see if that's 3.5 percent of the right spending, Kočev would get a good EUR 380,000 for that. New town 700 and so on, so I won't expose myself. Which is, I'll say, a pretty nice amount, and I welcome it, and it's right. Of course, not being misunderstood is not about money that will be used solely and solely to regulate Roma communities. Much of this money will be settled, but it is only right that these funds are also provided. We now have in Article 18c, that is, the current article on co-financing the realization of the rights of the permanently populated Roma community, which states that municipalities with registered Roma settlements are provided from the State budget with funds to co-finance the realization of the constitutional rights of the permanent Roma community. The funds shall be provided to those municipalities for each financial year at a rate of 3.5 per cent of the eligible expenditure. And then in addition to these 20 municipalities, which are listed as having an indigenous Roma community under the Local Self-Government Act, we have five municipalities listed, namely Brežice, Ivančna Gorica, Ribnica, Škocjan and Šalovci, which are supposed to receive these funds. But I don't think this is the end of the story. Of course, the explanation itself cannot represent the fact that other congregations will one day have no Romani settlements, some such and different Romani communities, and of course it is also then in some way to get it. However, I must say the following; if we look at the real picture, I will speak for an area that I know quite well. The pond has a strong Roma community and, of course, also costs and, of course, it is also right to get it back in some way. Ivančna Gorica also has Roma, but they have Roma settlements. I think there are three residential containers with some Roma living in it. Now, if we are doing this comparison, let's look at Ljubljana in these congregations. Ljubljana also has a Roma settlement in Rojah, and if we look now at how much Ljubljana would get for this Roma settlement, depending on 3.5 per cent of the eligible spending, it means that Ljubljana would receive EUR 5 million and EUR 129 thousand without obligation. And all these years, when the municipalities of 20 municipalities, which had indigenous Roma populations, had to suffer the costs of meetings, the costs of functioning commissions and so on, of course, the state is paying for the elections, which is right – a few more municipalities will now join and only receive the rights. They'll get the money. And if we link this to something that is trying to regulate or is trying to integrate, that Roma also participate in deciding on important things that are happening in the local community, then this is not a step towards integration. What do we have now? On the one hand, we have municipalities, as already said to our colleague Dušan, who have obligations which have already had obligations since 2007 and will now also have rights. On the other hand, we have a congregation that will receive only the rights. I don't think that's right. I don't think that's right, so it seems to me to be binding on a municipal councilman, a member of the Roma community, that it's not a bad idea. It is right that all municipalities that have Roma communities and Roma settlements, which are registered — irrespective of which: legal, illegal — receive money because they have costs and have problems. And I don't object to being misunderstood! It is also right to balance all congregations in an equivalent position, for if we do not do so, we have two categories of congregations. In fact, I am sorry, we have a subcommittee on monitoring the Roma theme, where we actually sit people who meet with the Roma theme daily and know it. We really know her. Some of us have been dealing with it all the time, some live almost in the midst of these Roma communities, close to them, know the situation, know where there are problems, where there is something to be done, and in fact there may be no mistakes in this case to listen to those we know. Therefore, I also welcome this letter prepared by the Forum of Roma Councilors of Slovenia. So, if they themselves consider that the Roma Councilor's Institute is a step towards integration, which is of course very important and also necessary, then I think we should listen to this. And once again, I do not want my debate to be heard by not allowing these six congregations or anyone else to receive these funds. Of course, let's allow it, but let's move to an equal position with all the other municipalities that have already done so since 2007, which are their own, I'll say, Roma communities have connected in some way where the Roma saint who works, mostly works, is involved in decisions, he's also very present on the ground, he's handling things, he's handling problems, and he's also right. And let's let it go, since when has anyone paid anything since then, but I think that if there are some new rights coming up, it's only right that these rights are so equal that they are equivalent for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukič has the word, and she'll get the word "magic" for her. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u288	Mr President, thank you very much. I mean, my predecessors have been pretty comprehensive already, so I'm gonna try to be brief this time. What can I say? This amendment goes in the right direction. I think it's extremely positive. It is encouraging, for it will encourage the congregations to change their statutes so that the Roma community in the territory of a particular congregation can actually have its representative in the municipal council. In this way, the political emancipation and eventual participation processes between the Roma community will also be encouraged, as it will be easier for Roma to organise and choose their representatives or representatives to represent their interests. Regrettably, municipalities have neglected this problem a little in the past, and in fact, they now have the financial resources available to begin solving the problem or solving it. Indeed, the common problem of local authorities is the lack of an interlocutor on the part of the Roma community and the introduction of the Roma municipal councilor will, of course, also make it easier for the municipality to work with the Roma community and, together with it, will be able to co-form approaches, improve the conditions of stay, improve the conditions of action of the Roma. For two years, however, I also think it is a suitable time or a long enough period, a transitional period for the municipalities to be able to adopt any necessary amendments to the statutes in this mandate and thus provide additional resources from the State budget for the future. So I must say that we support and welcome this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u289	Thank you very much. There's still magic in the word. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u290	Say good-bye to everyone again! The solution, which is now in law and which was adopted by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, which I am leading, with a large majority of votes, is better than this amendment offered by the opposition's parties. It is better because it covers a larger number of congregations because it does not give any conditions. All municipalities, where Roma settlements are present, either legal or illegal, thus have the additional costs and money that are now provided in this law, the additional money resulting from the obligations that the solution, which is now in law, means that each of these municipalities receives an additional 3 per cent. What is not much, however, allows the commune to arrange for the living conditions to be arranged, to settle all that is in the municipal jurisdiction, so that things are carried out in the best way possible. The money provided for this is not money for a Romani saint, nor would it be right to do so. This is a misunderstanding of what this money is meant to mean; not the financing of a Roma councillor, but the financing of all those additional costs and needs arising from the existence of Roma settlements in a particular municipality. With this amendment, it is a condition that is unnecessary and unnecessary and is, of course, politically motivated. I also believe that those who, as you yourself have said, as Roma saints have proposed that more Roma saints be appointed, certainly had the intention of providing them, as you have pointed out, with an additional meeting and, of course, with additional meetings to all the commissions. They're just the kind of business that this community has in common. It's nothing bad, it's purely legitimate, but money can't be used to fund meetings. This money is intended to finance all the costs incurred by municipalities that are additionally burdened by the presence of Roma settlements, either legal or illegal, and all the specificities they bring. This is also done by a special commission in the National Assembly, which regularly reports on this and these reports are very informative and, of course, justifies the correctness of this proposal, which is now in law. For this reason, I oppose the amendment and I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Replica, Dushan Shisko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u292	Thank you, Chairman. Maybe my colleague Branko, who I really appreciate when he talks and advises us sometimes, but this time, my friend Branko, I don't think you understand me correctly. With this amendment, he will not receive money from a Roma councillor, but he will be able to make decisions on the municipal council and make suggestions. In Krsek, a Romani councillor makes proposals, calls on the Roma and discusses them, and for this amount, when it is, they do something together. It's not about the meeting that this money will belong to him alone. You didn't get me right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Replica, Predrag Bakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u294	Maybe my friend Branko and I really didn't get along. It is not that this money would truly be financed by a Roma councilman and I am not only a problem with the financing of the Roma councilman. I am talking about the obligations that some congregations have to finance, but others will not. This means that all these years the municipalities where these Roma councillors had certain costs, not only costs, this is really the least, these meetings, but also regulated Roma settlements, regulated infrastructure, in a way, of course, applied for invitations and so on. The Commission, Sir Branko Grimes, is not a strange business. The commission to monitor the situation of the Roma community is established by law, which is actually mandatory for those municipalities which have – which have – and may also have – Roma communities and other municipalities, as it also writes in the law and the other municipalities can do so, but it is up to them. However, these municipalities, which have indigenous Roma communities, have these 20 municipalities, are under an obligation to establish these commissions. See, the municipality of Ljubljana has some 60 Roma in the Roma settlement of Roje, and nowhere in this proposal does it say that it is exempt from this. The municipality of Ljubljana can also, once the Roma settlement is registered, be treated equally as Ribnica, Šalovci, Ivančna Gorica, Brežice and so on. The cost will be 5 million for 60 Roma. And I'm not going to say that this money is for the Roma saints, and it's not going to go all the way into the Roma theme, but it's about regulating a lot of things, and it's not about coloring money to say it. This is the money these congregations get, they have the costs. Of course, all Roma congregations have costs. And it is right to win, but it is right that all congregations are then even. I remember how controversial that was, yes, we have the indigenous Roma, and we don't have them. Yeah, like that's the biggest problem. At that time, some congregations warmed up, and this needs to be made clear. They warmed up to come into the Law on Local Self-Government because these obligations would be imposed on them. Today, however, we do have the situation that these same congregations would, of course, like to have one piece of cake. And it is right to receive it, but to fulfill those obligations that the rest of the congregations had to fulfill. That's all I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u295	Thank you very much. The replica is also Natasha Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u296	See, Sir Grims, in my position, I have said very briefly and clearly: we must strive for the equal position of all these congregations, as well as of the Roma communities. So let's make it the same terms for everyone. With this – I think this is an extremely elegant proposal – the emancipation and participation of Roma in co-forming decisions that are, after all, political decisions at local level for their community and the municipalities themselves have a problem if they do not have an interlocutor on the other hand. However, if it is included in their municipal council, it is much easier because it is then a bridge between this Roma community and the congregation, a kind of transfer, here and there important information, the offices of things, and thus things will run much more organized, smooth and above all equally, participatory for all. I think that this is a very, very good proposal, which I really welcome, and I do not see any of these meetings are such a minor thing, respected, but that we are now going to stumble in the face of this compared to how much really positive the effects of this proposal can really be, so I think this is entirely unfounded. [[…]] I think this law, which is very good, can only be better if you accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u297	Thank you very much. First, the minister has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u298	Thank you, Chairman. I would first point out that in 2006, when the ZFO entered into force, a provision was made to provide funding from the State budget for municipalities in which the population is ethnically mixed and permanently populated with the Roma ethnic community. Thus, until 2017, the provision that did not stem from this, which means that the later novels did not correct what the congregation has as a Romani saint, but what is the actual situation. So, we too wanted to correct the actual situation, and in 2017 a novel was really adopted, which lifted or repealed this provision, but the reason was not that it would make sense to link the financing to the existence of a Roma councillor, but to the fact that this article had never been implemented in practice. That was the only reason. It is necessary to take this provision as a correction of the proper consumption of the municipality, it is not a matter of paying the actual need of the Roma community in a specific municipality, and as Master Grims said, it is a matter of higher costs in these municipalities, and we wanted only to do so. We have not come from formality, we have come from a factual situation, and the key thing to stress here is that no congregation will receive less because it will receive funds, nor will the other congregation receive less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Debate Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u300	Thank you. As far as these meetings were concerned, I did not expose them alone, it was only an answer to one of the discussers who put them at the forefront. In any event, the municipalities that have such a community that have these settlements have additional costs. And to cover these costs, this money is meant for. This money is distributed by the municipal council, distributed by budget, certainly not dependent on the presence or absence of one person. That's what it says, the costs are, are real, are real, and we need to find the means. By means of this law, we guarantee that the congregation will not be further harmed in any way by providing additional funds for this purpose, and we do not take anything away from anyone. This is not about a common bag that would then be divided into several congregations. On the contrary, all are justified according to the criterion set here and is clear to the same quantity. As for the city of Ljubljana, which you have stressed so much, given the direction it has, it is unlikely that anyone will be surprised if it comes to identifying what kind of Roma settlements.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting forward the 18th Article and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus groups. Anybody want a word? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 19b and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus groups. Anybody want to talk? No one wants to. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 19c and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus groups. Anybody want to talk? Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u302	Thank you very much. 19.c Article is, of course, relevant to those amendments which have been incorporated into this Act relating to the Firearms Act, which mainly refers to the co-financing of firefighters’ insurance. This amendment, which we then tabled, follows a warning from the Legislative and Legal Service and correctly places the 7th point. Once again, I would like to draw attention to the very important acquisition of this bill, which emerged from the SMC proposal, even after working with the Ministry of Defence, which essentially solves the longstanding problem of insured firefighters. As I pointed out in my previous discussions on this subject, things were happening that the firefighters had — or not — insurance or incomplete insurance. Why? Due to the excessive costs that such insurance entails and all of us remember the event of the intervention of firefighters in Celje when the firefighters were injured during this intervention, then the insurance company refused to pay for these injuries. This law is now the solution to such cases. It is the insurance of persons, equipment, vehicles and facilities, accident insurance, liability insurance, legal protection, as well as damage to the work that the State would now take over by enforcing this law. We think it's the right thing to do. It's the last of those demands that firefighters have been exposing for years. We have put great effort into these solutions in the SMC, and therefore it seems even more important to us that these provisions are included in this law and that we all, of course, support them together.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-19-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? No one else. That is why I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 21 tabled by SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus. Anybody want a word? He doesn't want to. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 25b and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No one wants to. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 25c and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus groups. Does anyone want to discuss this? No, no, no. So I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item and the 48th session, which we shall continue by voting, as I have already said, tomorrow. Have a good time and have a good trip home.
