ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 35th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed bill on the amendment of the Civil Code, within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was submitted to the Council of State for consideration. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Aloise Kovška.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for your word. Article 120 of the Construction Act provides that operators who have carried out construction activities and do not meet the conditions for carrying out activities under this Act shall comply with Article 14 of this Law within two years of its entry into force until the application of the Construction Law. The transitional period laid down in Article 120, paragraph 1, will expire on 31 May. During this period, construction operators must adapt to the new requirements of the Construction Law for contractors. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry has already warned of a short transitional period prior to the application of the Construction Law, mainly due to the lack of adequate professionally educated staff. The problem arises from the provision of the second indent of Article 14(1) of the Construction Law, in accordance with which the contractor wishing to carry out the construction activity must have a full-time or part-time contract in particular cases, in accordance with the law governing working relationships, with at least one worker fulfilling the educational conditions laid down in Article 14. Many operators, especially smaller ones, will not be able to meet this legal requirement within the statutory deadline. There are several reasons for this. Among other things, in Slovenia, there is a shortage of professionally qualified managers, which will require some staff to carry out additional education, which is professional, medium, higher, high, and additional examinations; however, given that these are already fully involved in the work process, it takes more time than the current transitional period. For example, if a person wishes to achieve secondary vocational education by means of a do-qualification, he needs at least two years of basic education and then another three years of work experience in order to be able to approach the vocational examination at all. Equally or very similar in higher education and higher education programmes as well as in basic vocational education. It is estimated that about 5,000 smaller companies – these are the only ones that are members of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, or more – are engaged in construction works. Since there is not sufficient staff on the market to be employed by these entrepreneurs as part managers in accordance with the construction law, entrepreneurs themselves will have to meet the required conditions for entering into the management directory of the works, particularly when it comes to the implementation of works on new buildings. According to a rough estimate of this, about a thousand entrepreneurs qualify for entry in the directory and the others do not. This means that they will have to perform at least a master's examination, a working examination or complete at least a secondary vocational education and pass an expert examination. Some of these trainings take several years. All operators who, at the end of the current transitional period in a situation where they do not meet the conditions, will have to substantially adapt or reduce their activity in the field of construction or will be in a larger offence for which extremely high fines are provided. However, problems will also arise in the procedures for obtaining usable permits and in other administrative procedures relating to the construction of buildings. In the event that they are not able to register in the relevant manuals of the management of the works during the transitional period, it is possible to provide for significant consequences in the construction practice and scope of the activity, as a large number of operators with long-term experience will no longer be able to carry out their activities in the field of new construction; this may result in a decrease in construction activity as a whole, a reduction in the number of jobs and difficulties in the level of individual operators. As a result, the basic objective of the proposed amendment of the law is to ensure that as many contractors as possible in the construction sector are able to comply with the requirements laid down by the Construction Law for the continuation of works in the construction sector; consequently, the transitional period which expires is 31 years. 5. 2020, extend by two years. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. I give the floor to my colleague, Edward Paulic, to present the report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u4	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 29th emergency session. 4. 2020 as a parent working body has considered the proposal for a law amending the Construction Law submitted by the Council of State for consideration following a reduced procedure. In a complementary explanation, the representative of the Council of State further explained the purpose and purpose of the proposed amendments in the same way as today. The representative of the Ministry of Environment and Space stressed in his presentation of the Government's written change to the proposal for a law that the Government assesses the time limit laid down in the current Construction Law as appropriate and allows contractors in the field of construction concerned sufficient time to adapt to the conditions laid down in Article 14. These conditions have been adopted on the basis of a request from the Chambers seeking to improve the quality of service delivery, which is directly linked to the required education. He pointed out that the Government would, of course, take account of any different views of Members and Members. The discussion expressed the principle of support for the extension of the transitional period in which construction operators will be able to meet the educational conditions imposed by Article 14 of the Construction Law. The view was expressed that the professional competence of the contractors is very important in construction, as some kind of precondition for quality work. Given the data available, a large majority of the operators still have not met the conditions, so it is reasonable for them to come across and extend the deadline for meeting the conditions for a reasonable period of time. Regarding the low share of all operators who have so far obtained the conditions of Article 14 and the reasons for such situations, different opinions were expressed in the debate. Some have thus confirmed the Government’s view that the Construction Law provided for a transitional period long enough to adapt to the conditions required. The view was expressed that it is very likely that a small number of operators who have fulfilled the conditions laid down in the current transitional period are the reason why many of them have not taken this provision seriously enough. Contrary to this opinion, some have pointed out that this category of operators includes a large number of craftsmen or small businesses, who also have only one or two employees, so it is more difficult for them to find time for education or exams that may last for several years if they are fully involved in the work process. Following the discussion, the Committee voted jointly and adopted both articles of the draft law in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u5	Thank you very much. In order to explain the opinion of the Government, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister of the Environment and the space of mags. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! Otherwise, the Chairman of the Infrastructure Committee has also very much explained the Government's opinion on this law. The government considers that there has been more than enough time to adapt to the provisions of this law from the entry into force of the Construction Law to this day or to the beginning of May. Of course, the provisions are not disputed that adequate qualified contractors should be involved in the execution of construction works. They've got a whole bunch of options for that. Of course, some performers have taken this seriously, have adapted in these two years, some have not, and are now looking for a solution for them. As I have already explained on the Committee, we will also examine the position of Members, or we will examine the position of the Council of State as a proposaler; at the same time, we believe that the relatively long period, as it seemed two years ago, was clearly too short for a large number of people and perhaps some kind of extension exam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u7	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party has the floor. My friend Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u8	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Honourable President of the Council of State, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Let me present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party on the Proposal for a Law amending the Construction Law. As we recall, in our previous reference to the National Assembly in 2017, we adopted the Construction Law, which entered into force 17. 11. 2017, but it has started to apply 1. 6. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Now that we have followed this law, there have been many concerns in this law. If I can rename it to an apartment house, some very positive elements were newly installed in this apartment house, and some elements are of course bad. And surely we will have to correct this law, which we adopted in 2017, in the coming period. The initiative of the Council of State and its President on the transitional period for all contractors involved in construction, in particular for contractors and their employees, who are required to carry out an expert examination, a master's examination and a working examination, of course, we have also examined in the Slovenian Democratic Party and found that these trainings have been insufficient during this transitional period. But when we have examined these figures, how many of these employees in these construction companies will have to carry out this professional, master or management examination in the future, it seems to us in the Slovenian Democratic Party to amend this law in order to extend this transitional period by two years, the correct one. Of course, we are also pleased that the government has taken the opposite step here to encourage all those in need of these exams and this extension; we want to appeal to the proposer as well as to the Chamber of Commerce to accompany all the construction companies, so that we will not have it in two years' time, that is, in 2022, once again, it has been found that there is not enough time. We will support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. Colleague Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues, colleagues, president, minister, Mr. Kovšca! The proposal for a new law extends a transitional period of two years within which construction works operators must fully comply with the provisions of Article 14 of the current Construction Law relating to the employer’s obligation to establish a regular working relationship with at least one manager of the works which supervises the construction of the buildings and must be educated in the appropriate direction and also to carry out a master’s, part-time or professional examination on the basis of which it is entered into the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia or Chamber of Engineering of Slovenia. The tightening of the conditions in Article 14 of the Construction Law is directly linked to the established practice of hiring external operators who have been in certain cases without adequate professional qualifications or evidence; their management of the facilities has also been professionally questionable, but not necessarily always. Non-professional management has led to non-professional and unquality construction work and, of course, has left irreparable consequences on the construction or on the engineering facility. The Ministry of Justice has included in the Construction Act a transitional period of two years within which construction operators can operate in accordance with the provisions of the previous Construction Act and provide the required relevant professional capacity. During the preparation of the Construction Law, of course, no one could predict the current conditions that we face in Slovenia and also in the world. Life in the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, elsewhere in the world remained to a certain extent. Among other things, the measures taken to control covid-19 virus spread have transformed the functioning of the entire education system. All competent institutions that organise or conduct education for the acquisition of those professional qualifications have placed their activities on a regular basis at a later date, at a time when a wider health picture will allow the implementation of established practices. It is estimated that, given the current situation and the upcoming summer holidays, the competent institutions would start regular implementation of the education process in the autumn months, i.e. four months or five months after the legal transitional period; this, of course, means that there will be even more problems in this area. The rejection of the proposed novelty would make it impossible for certain business entities of the construction sector or make it even more difficult to operate in such a limited way. Of course, this is not what we want in the List of Marjan Šarc. At the same time, to restore the economy to a pre-crisis level in the Republic of Slovenia, we will need to activate all available resources, including in the area of construction and construction investments. Therefore, in the light of the situation in the Marjana Sharca list, we will support the bill's proposal to extend this transitional period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u11	Thank you. The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats. My friend Sonibo the Prince.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u12	Thank you, President. Dear Minister, distinguished President of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! The transitional period set out in Article 120(1) of the Act, which we are considering today, will expire on 31 May this year; this means that a number of craftsmen and entrepreneurs will be able to lose their workers who for objective reasons have not provided adequate professional education; or the time to obtain the requirements they need will run out too quickly. In Slovenia, there is a lack of professional leadership, which will require some staff to carry out additional education or additional exams. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry points out that many operators, after the end of the transitional period currently in force, will not meet the conditions and will therefore be forced to substantially reduce or even close their activities in different areas where they operate. The Chamber also pointed out that the transitional period currently in force was too short and that consideration should be given to the extension of that period. The Council of State submitted to the National Assembly a legislative proposal to resolve the situation. The purpose of the proposal is to ensure that as many operators as possible are able to comply with the requirements laid down in the Construction Law for the continuation of works. The solution they are proposing is a simple and transitional period that extends to two years, until the end of May 2022, which means that the operators will be able to complete the process of obtaining appropriate professional education smoothly and will be able to meet the requirements imposed by the law. Members and Members of the Social Democrats agree with the solutions proposed by the State Council, because we believe that Slovenian craftsmen and entrepreneurs need to be provided with conditions so that they can continue to carry out their work smoothly in accordance with the legal requirements and regulations; in particular at a time when every job and work will be very important. We will unanimously support the proposal for a law amending the Construction Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u13	Thank you. The word shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. I'm a colleague of Matthew the Widow.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u14	Your Honor! The Council of State submitted to the National Assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending the Construction Law. The proposed amendment shall extend the period during which the contractors of works in construction must have a full-time employment contract or for a shorter working time with at least one worker who fulfils the conditions for head of part under Article 14 of this Act. The transitional period laid down by the law in question shall expire on 1 June 2020. However, the Council of State proposes that this period be extended for a further two years. With the proposed amendment of the law, operators, in particular smaller ones, shall be allowed to fulfil all the legal conditions set out in Article 14 of this Act. Otherwise, operators will have to substantially adapt or reduce their construction activities, and this is certainly not a good solution for anyone. Above all, during this time of epidemic, when we have to fight for every job or every job. The reduction in labour volume would result in additional unemployment and marked negative effects on the economic activities of the State. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we strongly advocate the proposed amendment of the law in question, as it removes the unnecessary administrative obstacle to business continuity and the work of contractors in construction. This problem has already been pointed out by the profession, especially the Chamber of Commerce. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we do not oppose this legal solution for the leader of the works. On the contrary, we strongly support it because it has been adopted with a view to improving the quality of service delivery and ensuring the highest standards of quality of construction, as well as ensuring public interest in the construction of buildings. In the area of construction, due to lack of adequate knowledge and lack of adequate staff, construction was done by workers who did not meet the quality standards. We must not forget that the quality of the final facility provides primarily adequate personnel and its expertise, the competence with which it has competence, and this is primarily the case for the head of the works in the construction site. For these reasons, the amendment introduced by the bill will be unanimously supported by the modern Centre's Group of the Parties; this certainly does not mean that we want to have a second debate in two years on this issue on the renewal of the deadline and the reasons for it. This means that craftsmen, entrepreneurs and other stakeholders in this area must make arrangements to meet all the conditions laid down in Article 14 of this Law at that time. At the same time, we note that not only in the field of construction, but also in other areas, we will have to provide adequate knowledge through educational programmes, including for the management of works in construction sites and other profiles in other areas for which special knowledge and professional examinations are required after the current regulation, such as a tourist guide. For the evaluation of educational programmes, we need to ensure that the successfully completed educational programme provides a sufficient basis for registering operators from specific fields and for carrying out such and similar works; in particular, the part for which they were educated in secondary, higher, higher education or university. Since it is in preparation for the amendment of the Construction Law, as the Government has also pointed out in its opinion, we are already considering this solution, so that the acquisition of adequate knowledge for the leaders of the part is already placed in the educational process itself. Such a solution would thus systematically ensure the appropriate skills of the staff, reduce the burden of operators and also reduce costs for future construction workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u15	Thank you. A colleague of Tadeja Šuštar has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. The Novela Law addresses the problem arising from the legal requirement that the contractor wishing to carry out the construction activity must have a full-time employment contract with at least one worker, that is, a normal manager of a part that meets one of the following conditions: according to his education he must be a master in the field of construction and is entered in the Register of Managers of Works at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia; or he must be an educator and be registered in the Register of Managers of Parts at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia; or he may be an authorised engineer under the conditions laid down in the Regulations governing architectural and engineering activities; or he/she is a technician or an engineer who holds an expert examination for the management of works at the Chamber of Engineering of Slovenia and is listed in the Register of Conduct. The condition is also fulfilled if the operator who fulfils the conditions for the exercise of the craftsmanship and carries out the activity in a craftsmen's manner, the operator of the activity entered in the Register of Conduct at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. This requirement was brought into line by the 2017 Act and provided that it must be met by 31. 5. 2020. Many of these operators, especially smaller ones, will not be able to meet this within the statutory deadline. In Slovenia, there is a shortage of professionally qualified managers, which will require some staff to carry out additional education and additional examinations, which, given that these are already fully involved in the work process, requires more time than the current transitional period. For example, it takes at least 2 years of basic education, and then 3 years of work experience, if a person is to achieve a qualification with secondary vocational education, to be able to take a professional examination. The same is true, or very similar, in higher education and higher education programmes, as well as in basic vocational education. It is also important to note that many technicians and engineers do not have a professional examination, many candidates who will perform a master's or part-time examination. In view of the time taken on average for the performance of a master's or part-time examination, which is 1 year and a half, all exams will not be able to be carried out during the transitional period now set. In the event of too many candidates, there is also a risk that there will also be a drop in expertise, which no one wants. Among other things, the legal requirement represents a regulatory burden on entrepreneurship, which is mainly burdened by smaller enterprises, so let us give small entrepreneurship an additional two years of time to prepare for implementation. It is also an understandable solution in the light of the epidemic, as the last months of the deadline for meeting the requirement are marked by covido-19 and disease control measures. The time after the epidemic will also be important for the start-up of the economy and not for the burden of legal regulation. This novelty lasts for two years, which is until 31. 5. 2022, and in New Slovenia we will unanimously support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u17	Thank you very much. There's a colleague of mag's who's got the word. Andrej Reich on behalf of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u18	Mr President, President of the Council of State, Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Today we are re-examined by the amendment of the construction legislation, which we have been changing too many times in recent times. This causes confusion, which is reflected in the degradation and usurpation of space, the degradation of professions and the walking of performance quality. In early June 2018, a package of three laws changed the area of space and construction regulation, and we received a number of innovations and simplified procedures, including date-setting arrangements. Thus, in the 2018 Construction Law, it is dated that operators of part have to adapt to the new requirements of the law by 31 May this year if they wish to continue their work. In early April, the Council of State proposed an amendment to the Construction Law in order to ensure that as many construction operators as possible meet the requirements of the law. The construction law replaced the previous building law. One of the amendments to the 2018 law was the reduction in the number of regulated professions by which part-time managers have to meet the conditions for entry into the directory of management parts. There were six regulated professions under the previous Law and the Law on Geodetic Activities, and all were under the jurisdiction of the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia. The new two laws, the Construction Law and the Act on Architecture and Engineering, have reduced the number of regulated professions to two, that is, the authorized engineer and the head of the works. The regulated profession is regulated by Articles 14 and 120 of the Construction Law. These two articles are precisely the reason for the amendments that we are considering today. The reason lies in Article 14 of the Act, which states that the contractor wishing to carry out the construction activity must conclude a full-time or short-term employment contract with at least one worker. The condition for compliance with the provision is, of course, an appropriate education to be obtained by the head of the part until the end of the transitional period, which is up to 31. 5. 2022. Vocational education in the field of construction is undoubtedly a condition for carrying out this activity, as only adequate knowledge and skills condition the quality of construction. In this context, I would like to highlight the urgency of considering the quality of education and the reason why young people are not interested in such professions. I'm talking about vocational education. As I come from Maribor, I would like to take a look at the information that only 42% of candidates from the number of registered places for professional programmes have applied to Maribor Central Construction School this year. I repeat – only 42% of the candidates. On the other hand, there are some more than 400 candidates in the process of obtaining a master examination at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce, which of course shows a lack of interest. The inadequate attitude towards professional vocational education in the past, the demonisation of the dual education system and the fight against the epidemic, which has crippled the education process for about half a year, constitute circumstances which we believe in the SAB that they urgently need to extend the transitional period. This is in order to ensure that the maximum number of contractors in the construction sector meet the requirements for the continuation of the profession. I am thinking of the personnel involved in the work process on construction sites and parts for which time and other factors for implementation need to be adjusted. I am aware that many operators of the works will not respond to the requirements of the law, but let us move forward to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and to those candidates who are prepared to meet the conditions required and allow them to do so. Construction is a specific sector of the Slovenian economy, which at the time of the covid-19 epidemic is extremely important for maintaining economic activity. Umar and the European Union are forecasting a decline in economic activity in Slovenia by about 10%. That is why, in certain circumstances, we must not interfere with this industry in a way that could have unpredictable consequences. After the extension of the transitional period under consideration, we must all be careful together that we do not introduce further confusion and unfair competition into the construction industry, which clearly represents an extension of the transitional period. It must therefore reflect a public message from the National Assembly [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u19	I'm sorry. The word is given by colleague Ivan Hršak on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u20	Thank you, President. Construction is an important building block of the economy. During the economic crisis, many construction companies collapsed, including some large, recognized in excellence, strong service and professional capacity. After a longer period of crisis in the middle of the previous decade, construction in Slovenia has finally recovered in the past three or four years. On average, it is now creating between 5% and 6% of GDP. At the same time, it is an activity that generates a lot of jobs and is recorded as a fairly low average wage. This sector is characterised by the highest proportion of employed foreign workers, most of which are industry-specific accidents. There is also a high share of work on the black or gray economy. At the end of October 2017, the adoption of the Construction Law focused on several objectives, including the provision of more expertise and thus better quality of construction. Of course, this is not without adequate knowledge and experience, so the law has provided for some regulations in this profession. First of all, it is about upgrading appropriate education and working experience with the head of work. By definition, the manager shall be a natural person responsible for the compliance of works performed with the project documentation with the rules specifying the essential and other requirements and with the rules on safety and health at construction sites. The heads of the works are therefore responsible for the quality of construction and for the safety of construction workers. The condition of employment of at least one such person, who, as the manager of the works with his theoretical and practical knowledge, will provide quality construction, makes sense from the point of view of the contractor itself, i.e. the construction company, as this ensures the excellence of the references. It also makes sense in relation to the contracting authority who expects quality construction. The quality of the product or service in general in any field is certainly also in the wider public interest. It is particularly important that the Head is responsible for caring for the fundamental constitutional right to life and health for those who directly carry out the construction. This new moment did not need to be adapted overnight to the construction works operators, as the law provided for a transitional period of two and a half years. In addition, it was stipulated that the rights acquired to the leaders of the works should be maintained. Therefore, all those who were able to act as responsible leaders until the date of application of the new law also retained this position subject to the entry into the directory and the submission of the relevant evidence. The transitional period shall expire at the end of next month. At the time of the adoption of the basic law in the Desus Group, we considered that this period had been set up as an appropriate time in which appropriate new qualifications could be obtained for this profession. Unfortunately, during this period construction operators have not been able to meet the new conditions. There are only a few of them who have taken the new requirements of the law seriously and adapted. Where are the reasons why the remaining large majority of the builders did not follow the obligations imposed? Is it true that there are objective reasons for the time constraints that are fueled by the fact that work is running out of time for further education required? Is it just ignorance or perhaps even total ignorance of the rules adopted? In view of the fact that the extension of the transitional period has been proposed on the initiative of one of the Chambers, there are also questions as to what they have done or have not done to the competent chambers whose members are construction companies in order to follow the legislation and to approach the education of their personnel in a timely manner. These new conditions have been adopted at the request of the Chambers, which are also supposed to seek to improve the quality of the provision of services in the construction sector. The proposal, which we decide today to extend the transitional period for an additional two years, has also led one of the Chambers to the National Assembly. Of course, it must be made clear that the reasons for the extension of licenses are not related to the outbreak of the epidemic, as it was long before it was clear that many construction operators have not even entered the necessary additional education courses. In the Desus Group, we will support the amendment of the law because we do not want to cause high penalties to endanger the construction sector and to shut down businesses. We are disappointed, however, at the lack of consistency in respect of the legislation adopted with good purpose and in the light of the concern for the maintenance and improvement of quality standards in this activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u21	Thank you. The Member Group of the Slovenian National Party shall have the floor. Comrade Dushan Shisko.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u22	President, thank you. We live in a time when much is being restored, especially the facades, new houses and so on. We are all still aware, even in the Slovenian National Party, that it is necessary to build homes for older citizens and apartments for young families; only listening, wishes are not yet available. At times, you could build a house in your own direction with the help of your parents, your parents, your nobles; at the same time, you had a master who had little knowledge of the construction. Today, there are other times, not a wall, everything on the average on agricultural surfaces, God behind the back, on the black, where it can't actually be. As we see today in Slovenia, I see this in Krske, from Posavje, where I come from, there are many construction companies where Albanians are employed. And you will not believe that there is an invitation at the Employment Service – we need a constructionist; and it says below that the language of conversation is Albanian. This is a little funny, we live in Slovenia, to speak Slovenian; not to work, come from elsewhere and speak their language, so that the Slovenian will have to learn Albanian to go to work with them. This is a disaster. And the question is their implementation, not so much quality as the guarantee. Are we going to Albania, Bosnia or Serbia in 10, 15 years, when we have something wrong and looking for a guarantee from him?Oh, my God! And they definitely have experience because, according to my information, they've been working somewhere since they were 15 years old, because they didn't even go to school, and they've been building, laying stones, and so on. I strongly hope that in our country, in the Republic of Slovenia, something applies to education, knowledge, experience, practice and therefore we believe that it is necessary to ensure that as many construction workers as possible meet the requirements laid down in the Construction Law for the continuation of works in construction. We agree with the State Council's proposal to extend the transitional period ending next month for a further two years, although the Government does not support it. Every single thing in life takes its own time. Thus and otherwise, in the construction industry, if, of course, we are interested in the high quality of work, the expertise supported by knowledge and experience. They don't do professional, mastery, labor exams just for the better, so we can have it framed on our wall. We must be aware that operators who do not meet the conditions do not face anything pink, because they will have to reduce their activities, forgive workers. They don't get away with high fines, business problems, and so on. Finally, the latter will have a negative aspect in terms of the scope of construction, employment, taxation, contributions and other charges; in short, the situation of the whole economy and our country, which is already in a difficult time. It is only a matter of time before the post-festum will be even more recession or economic crisis. We will support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group because it is of value to us to have a professionally trained staff with work experience on our Slovenian territory.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law supplementing the law on the conditions of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the lower union within the framework of the shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 51 Members and Members with first-signed Igor Zorčič. For further explanation, I give the floor to my proposalr's representative, colleague Dusan Šišk.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u24	Your Honor! With the amendment of the law, we have joined the joint forces of the Posavina Members coming from Brežice, Krske, Sevnice, Radeč, economists and municipalities, who believe that it is high time to speed up the process of obtaining a building permit for the construction of the Mokrica hydroelectric power plant. This enables the completion of a chain of hydroelectric power plant Mokrice on the lower Sava, which is the last hydroelectric power plant in the chain of six hydroelectric plants on the lower Sava, to be met by an obligation under the concession contract; the most important is to ensure flood safety in the Municipality of Brežice and Kostanjevica on Krk. The unfinished Mokrice hydroelectric power plant would result in the loss of the total energy potential of the lower Sava and the already built hydroelectric power plants would become pre-dimensionated. An anomaly of deficiencies in relation to the Construction Law is also addressed, on the basis of which an application for a building permit is required under an integrated procedure, of course in addition to documentation and environmental impact assessment, to attach evidence of the right to be built on all the land affected. Such arrangements are not feasible in practice in a particular case of the construction of a hydroelectric power plant with all its facilities, since our country should acquire and buy around 4 000 land, which is not a small resource. Similarly, individual parts of hydroelectric power plants are built in different time periods with different investors. It is therefore proposed that the administrative authority begin to consider a request for a building permit with an environmental impact assessment without the submission of ownership or other real estate rights, provided that the investors submit evidence before the building permit is issued. Let me mention that the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant has a favourable specific location where potential investors would pool energy from a water, solar source and on the hills where the state spatial plan allows it to build solar power plants up to 7 megawatts. In the future, there are also positive financial consequences, as each construction shift actually represents significant environmental damage and a prioritisation of less budget resources for concession fees and water refunds. According to investors, the question is also raised as to whether the Krška hydroelectric power plant would have already been built if its construction were subject to the current bureaucratic obstacles related to the Waters Act and the Construction Law, which were previously an obstacle. For example, less documents were needed at the Bosniak hydropower plant. The Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development was informed of the negative oral opinion of the Ministry of the Environment and the place where they highlighted the proposed exceptions by interfering with both laws. The proposed intervention in the Construction Law is not systematically regulated because the ILO has detected problems in connection with the integrated procedure for obtaining a building permit and envisaged the same solution in the upcoming amendments to the Construction Law. We also expect that the law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of energy potential will be included in all new hydropower plants in Central Sava and elsewhere in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. I give the floor to my colleague, Edward Paulic, to present the report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u26	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 29th emergency meeting. 4. 2020 was considered by the National Labour Authority to be the draft law on amendments to the Act on the conditions of concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava, which was submitted by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Igor Zorčič to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The proposer presented the purpose and objectives of the bill in the same way as before today. The written opinion was also given by the Government, which supports the bill as it pursues the objective of optimising electricity production and will at the same time facilitate the acquisition of a building permit in the same way as could be applied in future in building regulations. Similar solutions are also provided for in the amendment of the Construction Law, which is in preparation. The bill is also supported by the State Council. It considers it necessary to adopt an acceptable and predictable legal solution, which means less evil than if there is no movement, as we cannot expect potential investors to undertake the purchase of all necessary land or establish appropriate real rights before the decision of the competent national institutions on the environmental acceptability of the project. The proposal for a law expressed the support of all parliamentary groups. In addition to the reasons and arguments for the adoption of the draft law, as stated by the applicant, the debate highlighted, inter alia, the importance of self-sustainment in the field of electricity production and, in this regard, the view expressed that, following the completion of the hydroelectric power plant chain on the bottom of the Sava, increased activity in the construction of hydroelectric power plants is also essential in the medium Sava. It was also pointed out that in order to effectively raise economic activity after the end of the covid-19 epidemic, it would be essential for the new start-up of the construction sector and that large infrastructure projects would be so important and would have multiple effects on the economy. It has also been pointed out that the construction of the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant is also important from an environmental point of view as hydroelectric plants are among renewable energy sources. Slovenia is already lagging behind in achieving the targets of renewable energy sources for which it has committed itself to the European Union. In addition to the above, the construction of the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant is also important in terms of the anti-floating security of the area where floods in the past have already caused significant damage. After discussion, the Committee adopted its amendment to Article 1 and then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u27	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for the Environment and the Magi. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Once again a nice greeting to Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! The current Construction Law, as a system law in this field, provides that the application for a building permit is complete in the integrated procedure, if the requirements are accompanied by the following documents: DGD documentation, that is to say documentation for the acquisition of a building permit, assessment or environmental impact assessment report and evidence of the availability of all land. The application or the request may not even begin to be considered in substance if this request is not accompanied by evidence of availability to all land. Such a provision is, of course, reasonable or logical for one-bedroom houses, for smaller buildings or for smaller interventions to a place where it is self-evident to provide this evidence upon request. For large, very complex projects, such as the construction project of hydroelectric power plants, which is regulated by a specific law at the bottom of the Sava, this is the law on the conditions of the concession for the energy exploitation of the Lower Sava, and in such cases the provision prevents such a project. Not only is it time-consuming, but it is impossible to perform. Not to mention that this is completely irrational and unreasonable for such large projects that the country already acquires land as in this case must, even before the environmental acceptability of this project has been verified. What, though, if this project does not become environmentally acceptable or cannot happen? What will the country then do with these lands; will it farm or anything? For there are many lands, about 4,000 pitches. It is therefore perfectly logical that such complex projects are subject to a provision, as the group has now proposed, to the large majority of Members of this call that the requirement to obtain a building permit under an integrated procedure is complete even without proof of land availability. However, proof of land tenure must be provided later, before the building permit is issued. Of course, a building permit cannot be issued in an area where no previous land has been acquired. This means that the environmental impact assessment procedure is enabled, the procedure before the administrative authority, without evidence, which, of course, must then end with all the evidence provided. This makes it even impossible to continue the construction project of the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant through an integrated process, which I think is one great novelty and a good solution to the current Construction Law. Even so, the predecessors in this ministry have recognized that this is an obstacle to certain projects and that is why this solution is contained in the prepared amendment to the Construction Law; this is said not only to be a concession for the lower Sava, but also to be applied to other facilities. So why is he in a relative hurry? The Ministry of Environment and Space is a representative of the candidate for this construction and we also have information that an application for a building permit under an integrated procedure is likely to be submitted in less than a month. That is why, of course, it is not possible to make systemic changes in such a short period of time, but we are planning systemic changes already this year, that is to say that we will renew the complete Construction Law. The second solution proposed by Members also allows the construction of photovoltaic power plants on concession facilities. As part of the hydroelectric power plants there are other infrastructure facilities such as high-water embankments, as well as specific reservations in the space, especially mention here sediment dumps. These are major reservations on which it will be possible later, when necessary, to store sediments from accumulation pools. These deposits are, of course, large reservations in the space within the framework of the Brežica hydroelectric power plant, according to my data, this is about 15 hectares, serving nothing but standing and waiting for this function over the years or decades. And this proposal of Members and Members allows photovoltaic power plants to be placed on this land, which makes sense for the rationalisation of individual hydropower plants and for the approximation of the target of renewable resources shares in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u29	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. I'm a friend of Nick Prebil's.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u30	Dear President, thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, the House of Honor! Water energy is one of the key renewable energy sources by which the Republic of Slovenia will implement commitments in international agreements to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. The planning and construction of hydroelectric power plants on rivers is a complex process and must be carried out in accordance with all the expected scenarios in the area of human safety and standards. It must also proceed in accordance with the environmental and utilitological expertise and together with the provisions of construction and spatial legislation. In accordance with the Construction Law, a so-called integrated procedure for the issue of a building permit shall be carried out prior to the construction of such buildings, combining a decision on the fulfilment of the conditions for the issue of a construction permit and environmental approval, since hydroelectric plants are classified as having environmental effects. However, regardless of the complexity or complexity of the construction envisaged, the investor of the proposed facility must exercise the right to build in the form of contracts, establish service rights or contracts for the purchase of land to prove that it can also carry out construction operations on the intended land. In accordance with the sectoral legislation, such an investor must transfer those evidence together with all other technical documentation to the application for a building permit. The proposal for the amendment in question thus addresses the problems that investors face in practice and which are linked to the legal provision that the right to build must be demonstrated by appropriate documents in the early stages of the integrated process of issuing a building permit; that is, before the creation of an environmental impact assessment, on the basis of which the scope of the envisaged construction can also be changed. In the event that an environmental impact assessment requires a change in the scope of the construction, the investor must repeat the process of obtaining the right to build on land where the construction is acceptable. As a result, the construction of such buildings is closed. In the event of a delay in the construction of hydroelectric power plants in the Republic of Slovenia, we are further moving away from the so-called "green breakthrough" targets. Therefore, the proposed amendment provides that an investor for the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava shall exercise the right to build after an environmental impact assessment has been made before the construction permit is issued. Furthermore, the proposed novelty also provides, in view of the optimum use of coastal or water areas for the production of carbon-free energy, that renewable energy facilities be built in the latter, which, together with hydroelectric power plants, participate complementaryly in the provision of common energy objectives in further energy production processes. Dear colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished public! Finally, we must be aware that the global and hence the Slovenian needs for electricity are increasing. Almost every part of the technology with which we lighten our daily life is connected to the electricity network in one way or another. That is why we will have to decide in our country how we will generate electricity in the next ten years or more, whether it is the use of solar energy, wind, water or nuclear energy. In the LMŠ Group, we will support the proposed amendment of the law, as we are aware of the responsibilities of the legislative branch of the authorities to achieve environmental objectives, and in particular the responsibilities that we have up to the generations to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The text is delivered by the Group of Social Democrats, a colleague of Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister! If ever, we need investment now, we need infrastructure investment and also energy investment when we are in crisis. The energy potential of the Lower Sava has been widely mentioned in all these years. However, the Minister explained clearly and logically about the placement and placement problems of such an important energy facility as hydropower plants a little earlier. We have been using hydroelectric power plants on the lower Savi in some way since 1991, when the first power plant on the lower Savi started its operation, this is the Vrhovo hydroelectric power plant. Currently, four more operate on the lower Sava near the Vrhovo hydroelectric power plant. The last one, Mokrice, is before the final stage. The legislative proposal, which, of course, was signed by all Members coming from this end, follows the objective of facilitating the completion of the chain at the bottom of the Sava and at the same time fulfilling all the obligations under the concession contract to exploit energy potential at the bottom of the Sava. But as for photovoltaics, I think if we want to be a little greener in this country, it's just a logical consequence. The construction of hydroelectric power plants must be in accordance with the prescribed legislation, we are aware of this, and in the process of obtaining construction permits, decision makers must take into account all the opinions and recommendations of governmental and non-governmental organisations that ensure that the intervention in nature will cause the least damage in the area where it will be built. At the same time, it is important to look at all the building’s margins and also to say that building a building in the local environment does not only cause damage, as some say; on the contrary. It is within this framework that the surrounding road, municipal and agricultural infrastructure, as well as my notions of the most important, including flood protection, are regulated, which, of course, improves the quality of life in this community. In addition to flood safety for the Municipality of Brežice, the hydroelectric power plant will contribute an additional share to our network, which is not negligible, but will increase the energy self-sufficiency rate, which is already and will continue to be important in the future. I hope we're all aware of this together. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have recognised the law as appropriate and, of course, we will also support it. Once again, I stress the need to listen to critics and to find solutions that are in line with all the environmental standards and standards prescribed. Only in this way will we, of course, achieve all the common goals we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u33	Thank you. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, a colleague of Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The new law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of energy potential at the Lower Sava, which we have today on our benches, is essential, in particular, in two aspects – in terms of energy and also in terms of flood safety. The changes contained in this novel will allow the construction of solar power plants at energy facilities, which will significantly improve the functioning of existing hydroelectric power plants in the chain. In addition, amendments are proposed to allow for a faster procedure for obtaining a building permit with a view to completing the hydroelectric power plant chain at the bottom of Savi as soon as possible. The construction or start of a project for the construction of a chain of six hydro power plants on the lower Sava started 18 years ago, 18. Due to the numerous obstacles and challenges encountered by the investor during the process of obtaining construction permits and placing them in space, the completion of the chain for the construction of the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant has always stalled. Not only are the inhabitants there, but energyists also warn that the halting of the construction of the Mokrica hydroelectric power plant has a multilayered effect. The electricity produced by the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant should be replaced by another electricity production. Since we will have to abandon the use of fossil fuels in order to achieve environmental objectives, it is all the more important to obtain electricity from renewable energy sources. Slovenia has set itself the goal of reaching a 25% share of renewable energy sources by 2020. In 2019, our share was 21.2%. In addition, the unfinished chain of hydroelectric power plants also poses a greater flood threat to the inhabitants there. As the construction of the last hydroelectric power plant, the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant, plunges into an unspecified future, anti-floating protection for a thousand 100 people is threatened. Their expectation that the country will jump to help is more than justifiable. Recall the consequences of the flood in 2010, when boats were sometimes the only way to distribute food from the world to the cut-off population. The need for residents after the final regulation of flood safety has also been recognised by other Members of Parliament with the help of the Posav MEPs. This is also evidenced by the number of Members who have contributed to their signature under the proposal. Since the proposed amendments will help to increase the energy independence of Slovenia, as flood protection can be definitively regulated, we will also support the proposal of the law in the SMC. In addition, the practice of placing and building power plants on the lower Sava, in particular as regards contacts and communication with the local population, can certainly be seen elsewhere in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. My friend Alexander Reberšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u36	President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The content of the law is an amendment to the law on the award of concessions for the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava. The law contains two articles and a final provision. The purpose of the law is to facilitate the construction of the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant and to enable the use of solar power plants or other installations for the production of renewable energy sources. The existing Article 37 of the Water Act provides that interventions in areas of water and coastal land are limited to space. Only the construction of public infrastructure facilities that improve the hydromorphological and biological properties of water is allowed. It is proposed that, irrespective of the limitations of the Water Act on hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava plant, power plants could be installed. The proposed law states that the investor must, in accordance with the provisions of the Construction Law, exercise the right to build on all parcels before applying for a building permit. In the case of the construction of the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant, this means that the concessionaire should purchase or enter into service contracts on all land prior to the application for a building permit. It is only after the building permit has been lodged that a comprehensive environmental impact assessment procedure may be initiated. According to the applicant, this is non-lifelike, since the investor should have previously redeemed, entered into service on more than 4 thousand lands, even though he does not know if the environmental report will be positive and will be possible. It therefore proposes to set an exception for the construction in question. The investor could thus apply for a building permit, although it would not have yet carried out the land purchase procedure, the conclusion of the service. Following a comprehensive environmental impact assessment, it would continue the procedures for buying up land, concluding services and obtaining a building permit. The adoption of the law will have a positive impact on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and other public financial resources as it will be possible to build a hydroelectric power plant Mokrica, which consequently means inflows to the state and municipal budget on the basis of concession fees and water refunds. In Novi Slovenija we support the use of hydropower and therefore support the early construction of hydro power plants on the lower and also on the central Sava. In this light, we draw attention to the provisions of the draft National Energy and Climate Plan, which prevents the continuation or placement of any new hydropower plants due to the negative opinion of the environmental report. This is very dangerous, as it will prevent the construction of power plants on the Central Sava, and there are also major systemic shortcomings in putting facilities into space. Procedures are long-term, complex, different NGOs have too much power to stop projects. This problem is particularly significant in the spatial placement of renewable resource production facilities if the facilities are located in areas with natural protection, for example Natura 2000. We advocate the view that the construction of new energy facilities should be based exclusively on renewable resources and that measures to reduce energy consumption, in particular those from non-renewable sources, should be actively implemented. We will follow the objective of sufficient self-sustainment at the expense of renewable energy sources. We will encourage the necessary private investment in small production capacities of electricity and a friendly business environment for investors in green, sustainable investments – windmills, small hydroelectric plants and so on. With tax incentives, the country should promote a public-private partnership in the field of investment, in the construction of energy facilities on renewable energy sources. Slovenian energy development policy must ensure reliable, sustainable and affordable energy supply. Per capita energy consumption is disproportionately high and should be reduced so as to avoid further development. This is partly achieved by rational use, by introducing new technologies and changing lifestyles. The only way to achieve security of supply is to build a quality infrastructure for the distribution of energy and energy, with links to neighbouring countries and the entire region and with as little energy dependence as possible. Sustainable and environmentally acceptable supplies can be provided by introducing only renewable energy resources at the same time of effective use. We will support the bill in Novi Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u37	Thank you. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek. A colleague of mags. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u38	Dear President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering amendments and additions to the Act on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Save; more precisely the area from Vrhov to Mokric. The history of the energy exploitation of the Sava River hydropotential is quite long. The first plans and ideas date back to the first half of the previous century, when the company became aware of the importance of electricity supply, which is inseparably linked to the development of the economy. From the first idea to the construction of the first hydro power plant, it has been more than 50 years. First in a series of hydropower plants on the lower Sava, this is the Hydroelectrica Vrhovo, and they started building in 1989. In 2000, the holder of concession rights for HE Vrhovo was granted the right to manufacture a hydroelectric power plant Boštanj, the hydroelectric power plant Arto-Blance, Krško, Brežice and Mokrice. In building this important infrastructure, which strengthens our geostrategic position, I have also cooperated on my own. A number of Slovenian companies were involved and the latest knowledge of the profession was taken into account, as it is a project that connects and strengthens the Slovenian economy. Over the last 20 years, more than a thousand university-educated experts have been systematically working on it, and their number has increased to more than 10,000 in the performance phase. Slovenians can be very proud of their rich technical heritage, knowledge and culture. Remember, the oldest Slovenian hydroelectric power plant Fala on the Drava River celebrated 100 years of operation last year. It is a tradition that feeds Slovenian knowledge. Today, the facilities are planned in a sonar way, and when placed in the space, they are taken into account and included in different audiences. Their construction not only meets the needs of the electricity company, but also ensures the need for flood safety, enables the development of many tourist activities, jobs and the development of innovative solutions for the good of people. The amendments to the spatial legislation that took place during the twenty-year period of validity of the concession delay the construction of the last of the five hydroelectric power plants in the chain. In doing so, it should be stressed that power plants can function as planned, i.e. optimally, only if the entire chain of all five hydropower plants is carried out. The proposal to amend the law in the first place eliminates the anomalies resulting from the inadequacy of the provisions of the Construction Law. These virtually prevent construction in complex interventions such as the construction of concession facilities. The introduction of an integrated procedure into the Construction Act has led the investor to attach evidence of the right to build on all properties before it is established that the environmental impact of the construction is acceptable. Such legislation and such a requirement is, in practice, irrational, since it means that an investor has to buy out all the land in the event of a major project, such as the construction of a hydroelectric power plant with the related facilities, because it involves thousands of parcels, buy out all the land and establish adequate real rights before a decision is made whether an investment can be made at all. With the bill before us, this anomaly is being removed. We have always stressed the importance of timely construction of the necessary infrastructure in order to ensure the needs of society. In this case, energy self-sustainment, decarbonisation of energy, the start of economic activity and the preservation of a large number of jobs. We are committed to the use of clean energy and we continue to want to invest in the construction of new renewable energy facilities. This is the only way to ensure long-term access to clean and affordable energy, which will also have a positive impact on economic growth. We'll support the changes in the law at the SAB.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Comrade Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a new law that will make it easier and faster to complete the chain of hydropower plants on the lower Sava. In the chain of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava, only the construction of the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant remained, and last year the Administrative Court, following a complaint from the Slovenian Fish Study Society, returned the environmental consensus for its construction to the process and completion. The signatures to the amendment of the law were made by 51 members of both opposition and coalition parliamentary groups, as evidenced by the necessity of regulating the legislative matter. The Mokrice hydroelectric power plant should be built by June 2022, but the changes in the construction legislation with the so-called integrated procedure have led the investor to attach evidence of the right to construction on all properties subject to an assessment of the construction permit before it can be found that the construction impact on the environment is acceptable. This means that an investor should buy land or acquire real rights before it is decided that an investment can be made at all. Since this is almost impossible to implement, following the adoption of the novel, the competent authorities will be able to begin the examination of the request for a building permit or environmental impact assessment without the submission of ownership or real property rights on condition that the investor submits proof of the right to build on real estate until the issue of the building permit. Another important change relates to the harmonisation of the concession contract between the State and the concessionaire, which will also allow the construction of solar power plants at energy facilities and consequently optimize the functioning of existing hydroelectric power plants and also planned hydroelectric power plants Mokrice. Without electricity, we cannot live today. The future of renewable energy sources and the need for energy independence are of paramount importance. As responsible representatives of the people, we must strive to protect the flood threat and take measures that will not only be directed at us, but for all who come after us. I am extremely pleased, however, that after the completion of the hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava, it will finally be the middle Sava, which I have pointed out in the past, including by the introduction of my parliamentary law. Minister Mag. Andrej Vizjak assured me that the signing of the concession contract for the Central Sava is now in the final stage. So the Suhadol hydropower plants, Trbovlje, Renke will, and for the remaining hydropower plants, there are several other obstacles, and I hope that these will be removed in due course. In the Desus Group, we will support the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Law on the Terms of the Concession for the Exploitation of the Energy Potential of the Lower Sava. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The Member Group of the Slovenian National Party shall have the floor. Comrade Dushan Shisko.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u42	Your Honor! As a Member of the National Assembly, I am a member of the highest legislative authority, representing all citizens and citizens. I was elected to this assembly by the citizens of Krske and Kostanjevice on Krka, so I feel particularly obliged to represent their interests. This is also my lead in the parliamentary work. I am pleased that today there is a law on the agenda that is in the interest of both citizens of Slovenia and the development and statistical region of Posavje, which has been named and considered by the inhabitants there for more than two decades as a Slovenian province. Last year, a non-governmental organisation or the Association for the Study of Fishes of Slovenia warned that the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant, as well as other hydroelectric plants, would change the river area and threaten fish species as the remedial measures do not work. In addition, they reached a new environmental consensus process for this hydroelectric power plant and thereby stopped the construction of the last in the hydroelectric power plant chain in the lower Sava, which they had given the name of the project of the century for many benefits. It is interesting that the construction of the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant and the pursuit against the construction of hydroelectric power plants has not been stopped in recent years, so it would be interesting to know who stood for all of this. But let's get to the point. With information that the correction of minor deficiencies in the measures for fish species is already under way, we could read in the newspaper Posavski obzor an article entitled The operation of fish trails of hydroelectric plants on the lower Sava, where the pictures show a good view of the hydroelectric plant Arto-Blanca with the fish path, the hydroelectric Brežice with the fish path and the narrow passage for aquatic organisms at the hydropower plant Krško. The operation of the fish paths of hydroelectric plants on the lower Sava shall be monitored periodically from the very beginning of construction with dedicated utilitological monitoring, of course, in accordance with the definitions of environmental agreements. The Mokrice hydroelectric power plant is the last in the chain of lower-Savish power plants, where construction under the best possible scenario could start this autumn, as all necessary permits are under way. They have people, they have knowledge, they have experience with the lower Sava as well as their own money resources to carry out this project. It is also important that we produce 131 gigawatt hours of electricity per year. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we are in favour of finally eliminating irregularities or anomalies, where the provisions of the Construction Law are inconsistent, which in practice prevent construction in complex operations such as the construction of concession buildings. It is also irrational, illogical, that an investor in the construction of a hydroelectric power plant with related facilities, where there are more than 100 parcels, must buy land before a decision is taken whether or not an investment can be made. We must be aware that these are complex projects lasting from three and a half to four years, unless of course something is complicated as with the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant. The amendment will allow the completion of the chain on the lower Sava and the fulfilment of all obligations under the concession contract to exploit energy potential on the lower Sava. These measures will increase the share of renewable energy sources. In Posavje, we often witness floods, including in the Municipality of Brežice, and this would ensure flood safety, which the inhabitants of the villages there have been waiting for a long time. Construction of solar power plants on concession facilities will also be possible because it improves and optimizes the functioning of existing and planned hydro power plants. In a difficult time in which, in times of emergency, low economic growth and recession will have a positive impact on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The bill also gives a green light to economic growth.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u44	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues, a nice greeting to everyone! Sava brings Posavije together. In the past, regardless of political colours, mayors, MPs or ministers have also been able to take an active approach to the appropriate exploitation of what nature has given us, that is, in this case, the Savo. In the past, and even now, the SDS has actively participated at various levels in exploiting the energy potential of the Sava River. By means of this law, we are accelerating energy, construction, and also flood security, because the failure to accept this law has been done — and we hope that today’s end will be financial or economic damage, energy damage and fortunately no counter-flooding damage. This law accelerates the acquisition of a building permit for the completion of the hydroelectric power plant chain on the lower Savi. If the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant is not built, this in practice means that all previous hydropower plants on the lower Sava have been pre-dimensionated. We put too much money into their use to not properly fill it with the last hydropower plant. The fact is that this law is the basis that even after the epidemic, construction can develop more rapidly in this area. We talk a lot about renewables in the National Assembly, and today we have the opportunity to accelerate hydropower and, finally, solar energy as a by-product in the construction of the Mokrica hydropower plant by adopting this law. Those who have at least ever listened to a lecture on energy, I think they will be very happy that from renewable sources we will only obtain between 6 and 7 megawatts of electricity from solar power plants in this project. In the SDS Group, we are happy and proud to have this law before us today, because we are also adding this law to the mosaic of the elimination of bureaucratic nonsense resulting from previous legislation. As has already been said today, how can someone buy 4,000 lands without knowing whether they will be able to use them? In this case, it was a country. This law gives the investor the opportunity to speed up the acquisition of a building permit without having all the land already leased. However, since I am also a member of the Parliamentary Club, and because I am also the last discusser of the position of the parliamentary groups, I would like to thank all three of my fellow Members from Posavje. We are an interesting team – 4 Members, 4 municipalities, 4 parties, which we were able to step together on this project regardless of political colour. That is why I would like to thank all three fellow Members from Posavje that we were able to prepare this law together with Posavia's energy. At the same time, thanks to all those who have contributed signatures to this law; and to all those who today will give support to this law. To conclude – until the hydroelectric power plant on the lower Sava is finally built, we cannot start with the hydroelectric power plants on the middle Sava. We have already tried that in the previous term. I believe, however, that in this mandate I will also be much closer to the goal that our Zasavese Members and mayoral colleagues have – to do something in the area of renewable resources in the middle of the Sava as well. In the SDS Group, we support this law and thank all of us for our constructive work.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote. That's what I'm breaking up with. We're moving to 8. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the water laws and additions, within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. For further explanation, I give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and the Magi. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u46	Your Honor, thank you so much for this opportunity. The proposed law complements and amends the provisions of the Water Fund in terms of the purpose of the use of funds. The proposed amendments relate to the amendment of Article 162 of the Water Act governing the establishment and management of the Water Fund, which is a specific budget fund set up to finance the tasks arising from the Water Act. This is primarily the financing of water infrastructure, such as high-water embankments, dams, reservoirs and the like. In addition, the Fund shall finance the construction of water infrastructure, including the maintenance of facilities and maintenance parts for public benefit, and the implementation of emergency measures during the time of the increased level of risk and following natural disasters due to the adverse operation of the water. The current system of financing intervention works or emergency measures does not allow for the immediate implementation of the necessary works to address the immediate threat to human or property health. The aim of this supplement is to further provide resources for the new construction or reconstruction of drinking water supply systems, the purchase of existing private water lines by municipalities in order to ensure public supply of drinking water, as well as municipal projects for the construction or reconstruction of public sewerage in agglomerations with a total burden of less than 2 000 population equivalents for which it is not possible to obtain European funds, and to complement the possibility of co-financing to the existing financing of municipalities in order to achieve the objectives of good water condition or adequate water supply. This is therefore a specific additional arrangement, without prejudice to the existing Community funding system. In any event, with the envisaged possibilities of co-financing or financing those projects, it shall be without prejudice to ensuring the financing of the existing basic tasks carried out by the Water Fund within and under the Water Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. I give the floor to my colleague, Edward Paulic, to present the report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 16th session. 3. 2020 as a parent labour body has considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Water Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. In his supplementary explanation, the current Minister for Environment and Space stressed that the proposed law complements and amends the provisions of Article 162 of the Water Act governing the establishment and management of the Water Fund. This is a specific budget fund set up to finance the tasks arising from the Water Act, primarily for financing water infrastructure in order to reduce flood risk in the whole of Slovenia. The law adds the possibility of funding from the Water Fund for the purpose of building water infrastructure and carrying out extraordinary measures during the time of the increased level of risk and following a natural disaster due to the adverse operation of water. To this end, €5 million will be earmarked for the Water Fund at annual level and can be transferred to next year in the event of non-use. The maximum amount reserved for these purposes should not exceed EUR 10 million per year. The aim of the Act is also to provide assistance in ensuring the new construction or reconstruction of drinking water supply systems, the purchase of existing private water lines by municipalities in order to ensure public supply of drinking water and municipal projects for the construction or reconstruction of public sewerage in agglomerations with a total burden of less than 2,000 population equivalents for which it is not possible to obtain European Union funds. In the debate, the Left Group highlighted the disagreement that the implementation of exceptional measures during and after the increased threat to floods and other exceptional events resulting from the harmful operation of the waters would be financed from the Water Fund, but that funding should be provided from an integrated budget. The water fund should be intended exclusively for the development of water infrastructure, including measures to prevent damage to floods. In the SAB Group, the proposal supports the law as it will allow resources from the Water Fund to be earmarked for water supply and sewage. They proposed an additional legal provision that the funds obtained from a single environment as a result of the spatial and environmental burden should be reimbursed or earmarked to invest in this environment. They also expressed support for the bill in the SDS Group, which will allow co-financing of drinking water supply and effective measures in the area of decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waste water. After the discussion, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, the Group of Social Democrats. My friend Sonibo the Prince.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u50	Thank you, President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The achievement of good or excellent water, water and coastal land conditions and the provision of good water-related ecosystems must be a priority and a goal for our society and our country. Our activities must aim at ensuring protection against water damage, water conservation and management, promoting sustainable water use and long-term protection of water resources and their quality. The legislative proposal put forward by the Ministry of Environment and Space as the main objective is to set out the purpose of the use of the Water Fund in order to clearly define the purpose of the use of funds which they believe will also be intended to finance the maintenance of facilities and maintenance works that are in the public interest. The Ministry of Environment and Space has written down the legal solutions by adding the possibility of co-financing municipal projects for the new construction or reconstruction of drinking water supply systems to provide public water supply that cannot be co-financed by the European Union. Solutions that provide assistance in new constructions or reconstructions of drinking water supply systems or provide new construction or reconstruction of public sewerages in smaller agglomerations for which it is not possible to obtain funds from the European Union are the solutions we welcome in the Group of Social Democrats. Let us not forget that there are still a number of settlements in Slovenia in Goričkem, Dolenjska and elsewhere, where residents still do not have an orderly water system to provide them with drinking water, which is, after all, the source of life and constitutional rights. The country's priority must be to provide such settlements with an immediate water and sewage network, which is the basis for a normal life. The Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a law, because we believe that the solutions proposed by the Ministry can be a step towards not having settlements in Slovenia that still do not have a structured basic municipal infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. My friend Gregor Perich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u52	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister! It does not need to be emphasized that we are living in times when nature is very unpredictable and because of climate change we are increasingly facing natural disasters. Also, prospects for the future are not the most optimistic. According to some forecasts, precipitation levels at annual level are expected to increase significantly by 2050; the intensity and frequency of exceptional precipitation is also expected to increase. At such extreme events, there is a much greater likelihood of flooding, including in areas where we have not been used to it so far. We find that such events occur more and more frequently. At the moment of a natural disaster, rapid and effective measures are crucial, to the greatest extent possible, to mitigate the consequences of such disasters. Let me give just one example of the situation that we had some good year ago in Jelendol, where the country was hurrying very quickly. And that's such a good case. The new law goes in this direction to further facilitate and strengthen this. The news we are taking today will allow for an immediate and effective approach to the implementation of extraordinary measures at a time when the level of water hazard is increasing. The legislation thus far did not allow the immediate and sufficient implementation of the necessary measures to address the immediate risk to human life or health or the safety of the property itself; the proposed regime also provides assistance in achieving the goals of good water conditions after Slovenia or adequate drinking water supply. For all citizens and citizens, achieving the goals of a good water condition or adequate supply of quality drinking water to the population is of exceptional importance and I do not think that this should be overemphasized. In addition, in the field of the implementation of mandatory municipal public environmental protection services, including the separation and cleaning of municipal waste water, it is possible to better define what can be financed from the Water Fund in relation to water infrastructure. This complements the possibility of co-financing municipal projects for the new construction or restoration of drinking water supply systems that cannot otherwise be co-financed by the European Union. In the SMC we expect this to be particularly important and will contribute to projects ranging from one public economic service to another or from one municipality to another municipality or from one system of municipalities participating in that public economic service to another system, as this has been made difficult in the past. The changes needed to protect people's lives and health must be a priority for us, and this is exactly the change that brings the novels of the Water Act. As we attach great importance in the area of the environment in the SMC to ensuring greater flood safety and because respect for the constitutional right to drinking water is of paramount importance to us, we will unanimously support the proposal for the Law on Water Amendments and Supplements in the Parliamentary Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Left Party. Comrade Bostian Korazzi.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u54	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. The Waters Act, which we are considering today, will complement the list of things that can be financed by the Water Fund. It is more clearly defined that the use of water infrastructure resources is spent on the construction of water infrastructure, the possibility of co-financing municipal projects, the new construction or reconstruction of a drinking water supply system that cannot be co-financed by the European Union, the financing of private water pipelines by municipalities, municipal projects and the financing of new construction or reconstruction of public sewage, if they cannot be co-financed by the European Union. It's all good and it's all good. The law then adds the possibility of financing the implementation of emergency measures at a time when the level of risk caused by water damage is increased, to address the immediate threat to human life and health. That sounds good at first sight, too, but the devil lies in detail. In Levica, of course, we do not object to the State financing the implementation of extraordinary measures at a time of increased risk of water damage. We are opposed to the fact that money for this is taken from the Water Fund, which is a dedicated fund from which the development of water infrastructure is to be financed. As of now, all preventive measures to prevent or mitigate harmful operation of water can also be financed from the Water Fund. By amending the law, however, money intended to do so — and we all know that it is too little — will withdraw its investment in preventive measures and will be used for curative or emergency measures at a time when water, floods, and so forth will occur. This will only deepen the problem, as less money will be spent on flood protection and the money will be spent on flood relief. If we pull the fire analogy, instead of fire safety, the money will be spent on firefighting. The issue is even more problematic when we know where the money for implementing extraordinary measures has been taken so far. Emergency measures in the event of water damage are mainly carried out by civil protection units, firefighters and the Slovenian Armed Forces. All these services belong to the Department of Defense. To claim that there is no money for the measures they are taking is very unusual. The budgets adopted by the Ministry of Defence have only been higher throughout history in the years 2008-2010. The current Mid-term Defence Programme of the Republic of Slovenia 2018-2023 and the White Book on Defence both predict further growth of the budget of the Ministry of Defence, which is expected to reach record height in 2022. It is true that other departments and services are involved, but according to former Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mr Simon Zajc, their costs are estimated at only EUR 2.5 million. The former Minister argued on the Committee that the funds to be withdrawn from the water fund would be spent solely and solely on the operations of the water managers and other services of the Ministry of the Environment, which intervene in the event of an emergency when confronted with water damage. But it doesn't come out of the text of the article itself. It has been determined that all measures, namely firefighters, civil protection, the military and other services, can be financed. If the purpose was to provide only funds to the leaders, then the law was poorly and vaguely written. But the door is open to the financing of all, I stress – all measures in the event of water damage. The most absurd thing about all of this is that we are talking about 2.5 million euro bees. It is therefore not a problem of resources which the state would lack and which could not be secured at the time of the natural disaster from the budget of the Ministry of Defence, which is, of course, responsible for protecting against natural and other disasters; in fact, it is an extremely distorted hierarchy of priorities where it is not difficult to find EUR 2.5 million for the operation in Latvia, where Slovenian soldiers are deterring the non-existent threat of the Russian army invasion of the Nato Pact. However, it is difficult to find money for measures to deter the immediate threat to human life and health at floods that we have on the same page almost every year. The money for the latter will be taken from the Water Fund and will further impoverish the resources that should be designed to avoid the threat to human life and health at floods. And that is why we will not support the proposal of the Law on Water in the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. My friend Alexander Reberšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. The aim of the adoption of the Law on Water Amendments and Supplements is to: the possibility of financing the new construction or reconstruction of smaller drinking water supply systems from the Water Fund, the possibility of financing the new construction or reconstruction of public sewerage in smaller agglomerations from the Water Fund and the possibility of financing the implementation of exceptional measures due to the adverse operation of water in the event of natural disasters. As a result of the system of financing intervention works in the event of natural disasters, it is not possible to carry out the financing of urgently needed parts from the Water Fund. The amendment of the law lays down the legal basis for the use of those funds for the construction of water infrastructure at a time when the level of risk is increased due to the harmful operation of the water and for the implementation of exceptional measures following a natural disaster due to the harmful operation of the water. The amendment of the law allows for co-financing from the Water Fund: municipal projects of new buildings or reconstruction of smaller drinking water supply systems that cannot be co-financed by the European Union; purchase of private water lines by the municipality to provide public water supply, municipal projects of new construction or reconstruction of public sewerage in agglomerations with a total burden of less than 2,000 population equivalents that cannot be financed by the European Union. The second part of the amendments to the Act provides for the way in which funds are allocated to the Water Fund – a call for proposals or a public call. The maximum co-financing rate of investments by the Fund shall be 80 % of the value of the investment. For the co-financing of drinking water supply projects and the removal and treatment of waste water, a maximum of 50 % of the expected inflows to the water recovery fund may be used. In Nova Slovenija we estimate that the law is going in the right direction, as additional means are provided for the execution of intervention works in times of natural disasters due to the harmful operation of the water. Particularly important for small municipalities are the possibilities of using the Water Fund to build smaller sewage and water systems. However, the Ministry should prepare more systematic changes to flood recovery legislation. The biggest problem in the implementation of flood recovery is to the end the bureaucratic state procedures that prevent the quality and timely execution of remedial works by Slovenian municipalities. It is therefore necessary to review and re-establish a system of preparation for the adoption and implementation of disaster relief plans. Protecting water resources for drinking water supply is essential to prevent their pollution. In the field of water management, sufficient financial resources should be continuously provided for the implementation of the public water management service. In the case of unpolluted streams, only 30% of the projected flow can be translated, resulting in more severe rainfall in urban areas as well. The damage caused by the flood has been very high in the last 20 years. The damage reaches a billion and a half euros. However, this damage could be severely mitigated or prevented by the appropriate regulation of watercourse streams with significantly lower resources, with approximately 20 million per year provided for this purpose. It is a pity that Slovenia loses its capital by paying for damage caused by natural disasters if and where floods could be prevented by appropriate preventive measures. It is necessary to speed up the implementation of flood control measures in already threatened areas to protect existing settlements and to consistently prohibit the introduction of new harmful potential into threatened areas. For all of this we will support the proposal for a law in Nova Slovenije.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek. A colleague of mags. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u58	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are again considering changes to the very important Law on Water, which regulates the management of the sea, inland and underground waters and water and coastal land. As a society, we generally remember water only when it is really bad — in droughts, floods, or the integration of water infrastructure into space. The Water Act was adopted in 2002 and has since been subject to multiple amendments and additions. It is a living law that has a profound effect on our daily life. The climate change we witness has a cause for human activity. The footprint of our actions is apparent in the intensification of extreme weather events that also affect water conditions. The supply of drinking water is just one of the topics that the law refers to before us. The right to drinking water is enshrined in the Constitution at the initiative of the SAB. Unfortunately, many of these duties cannot be fulfilled by the local communities, because they cannot report their necessary projects, namely providing basic municipal infrastructure for co-financing from European funds. Such projects are certainly drinking water supply projects and waste water processing projects. Remember the harmful and reckless breakdown of large and powerful municipalities in the past and the inability of mutual cooperation and integration in water supply of Pomur, Slovenia's Istria and so on. The consequences of the borders between the municipalities are being relived in those days when the covid-19 epidemic has limited movement between the municipalities. Many municipalities have no basic infrastructure such as health care, post office, shop, school, kindergarten, nursing homes, pharmacy. And this is once again evidence that the policy that in the past encouraged divisions among the congregations was still harmful. In each local election, we therefore remember the customers who boast of the highest number of mayors and the unregulated infrastructure for which they usually blame others or local centralisation. And these are the circumstances that affect our position. But back to the point, today we are adopting amendments to the Water Act, which expands the permitted use of the Water Fund. The proposed amendment to the Water Act will later allow co-financing of municipal projects, new construction or reconstruction of drinking water supply systems. This applies to municipal projects which cannot be co-financed by European funds or through the purchase of private pipelines by municipalities. This will help members of the National Assembly to ensure the new construction or reconstruction of drinking water supply systems or to ensure the new construction or reconstruction of public sewerage in smaller agglomerations for which it is impossible to obtain funds from the European Union. We will not support the amendment and amendment of the law in the SAB. The funds in the Water Fund are not enough right now, so it is not right to add another obligation, another expenditure, to the half-empty bag. The resources already available will be further reduced to flood protection and water treatment projects. For these purposes and needs, the State should provide a second source of resources, i.e. for water supply and waste water processing purposes, as we will not provide either with such an approach. In this regard, the SAB particularly regrets that our amendment, which suggested that the Water Fund's resources should be used primarily, taking into account the principle of solidarity, is not adopted on the ground from which they were obtained. Remember, most of the funds of the fund – we are talking about millions of euros a year – are collected from the Drava River basin, while only a small amount is returned to it; despite the fact that flood protection is not provided on the Drava River. All members of the committee, except me, voted against the amendment of the SAB Group. Let us take this opposition from the other members of the committee, please, before the eyes when the weather events of extreme weather occur again in the Drava area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Comrade Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, President. Slovenia is an extremely rich country – from the heart and working population to natural beauty, cultural heritage and economic resources. However, there is water between all economic sources of primate. As one of the main sources of life, it is important to protect it. For this reason, we have a special water law governing water management, its protection and regulation and, of course, the management of water. The proposed amendment of the Law on Water Amendments and Supplements allows for a clearer definition of what can be financed from the Water Fund in relation to water infrastructure. This is the construction of water infrastructure, which includes financing the maintenance of facilities and maintenance of parts for the public benefit of water infrastructure. In the Desus Group, we are aware that regular maintenance of water infrastructure is important, as this will extend its life span while protecting its users. We will also focus on the possibility of implementing extraordinary measures at the time of the increased level of risk. We need to ensure funding for the implementation of emergency measures from the Water Fund, which will allow for an immediate approach to the implementation of all measures resulting from the Water Act. This is averting a direct threat to the lives or health of people or property. Because nature is unpredictable, we must be prepared to do everything possible to mitigate the consequences immediately at any emergency. It is important that funds are available primarily for emergencies where the water source is directly threatened. For the accident to never rest, last year's event in Rižana's waterfront area is a witness. In the Desus Group, we highlighted the constitutional right to drinking water by asking a question from the Member States. A railway accident in Hrastovje could endanger the supply of drinking water in as many as four coastal municipalities. With the help of reserved funds, such events can be remedied faster and the resulting damage may be reduced. The Law amending and supplementing the Water Act will also allow for co-financing of municipal projects for the new construction or reconstruction of drinking water supply systems, in order to ensure public supply of drinking water which cannot be co-financed by the European Union, the purchase of private water pipelines by municipalities for the provision of public drinking water and municipal projects for the new construction or reconstruction of public sewage. Thus, in challenging projects, we will not leave the congregations alone, but we will be able to counter them by means of additional means. All unused funds will also be available for transfer in the following year. The Desus Group will therefore vote in favour of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act today. It is important that we be aware of the responsibility and responsibilities we have in water management. We need to protect all users who might be affected by unexpected accidents. We also need to think about future generations. Today's decisions to amend the Water Act will have a far-reaching impact on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The Member Group of the Slovenian National Party shall have the floor. Comrade Dushan Shisko.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u62	Your Honor! The water that flows out of our pipe every day is a good that some do not appreciate. Many times it is even more inappropriate than appropriate. Dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, we can still be happy to drink it directly from the tap and do not need to buy bottled water or water in bottles. The last one would cost us a lot if I didn't even talk about waste packaging. If we do not treat her with care in the future, she will certainly show us her teeth. Therefore, we need to implement extraordinary measures from the Water Fund, as a compulsory national economic service, in order to implement measures at the time of the increased level of risk caused by the adverse operation of the water and by natural disasters due to the harmful operation of the water. If I draw the line, the amendment of the law allows for the immediate implementation of the necessary works to address the immediate danger to the life or health of people or property. The Water Fund is a specific budget fund designed to finance water infrastructure. You say you want to help ensure the new construction or reconstruction of a drinking water supply system, purchase of existing private water lines by municipalities to provide public water supply and municipal projects to build or reconstruct public sewerage in agglomerations up to 2,000 population equivalents for which it is not possible to obtain European funds. For some municipalities this is an additional possibility of co-financing because they are financially well-fed. The current situation or problem is that with five or a maximum of ten million euros a year does not take into account much broader protection of the water as regards our protection of the environment. You may wonder what will happen to small municipalities and their unfinished projects and what will happen if the municipalities fail to build sewerages in all agglomerations within the prescribed deadline. I call on the new government or the Ministry of the Environment and Space in the future programming period for the financial perspective 2021-2027 to support all efforts to finance local water supply infrastructure and to remove and clean municipal waste water in agglomerations below 2 000 population equivalents from European Union funds. We believe that the invitation to tender or public call is not the best way to allocate funds, although it is transparent, because the municipalities will have to give priority to speed due to the prior treatment of applications submitted and not to quality preparation. Other criteria should also be taken into account, such as the construction of sewerage over the source of drinking water, the extent of the missing infrastructure and so on. If we are to protect our drinking water, it is high time to also resolve the long-term regulation of fair monetary compensation for farmers in the water protection area who, because of the ban on the use of manure and plant protection products, are not able to compete with other farmers. We will, of course, support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian National Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u64	Dear President, Minister, Members, Members of Parliament! We have before us the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Water Act in the short process, which we are pleased and welcomed by the SDS Group. The proposed law allows the co-financing of municipal projects for the new construction or reconstruction of drinking water supply systems, for the provision of public water supplies that cannot be co-financed by the European Union or for the purchase of existing private water lines by municipalities in order to ensure public supply of drinking water and municipal projects for the new construction or reconstruction of public sewerage in agglomerations with a total burden of less than 2 000 population equivalents, if they cannot be co-financed by the European Union resources as well as by water pipelines. The purpose of the law is to provide assistance to municipalities in co-financing economic public infrastructure and to complement the possibility of an existing system of financing municipalities in ensuring the achievement of the goal of good water status or adequate drinking water supply, while also implementing concrete solutions to record the right to clean drinking water in the Constitution. The proposed amendment allows for a clearer definition of what can be financed from the Water Facility in relation to water infrastructure. The proposal also further allows what is the financing of the implementation of emergency measures at the time of the increased level of risk and emergency measures following a natural disaster due to the harmful operation of water with the aim of preventing the direct risk to human life or health and property, which the current system, according to our assessment, does not allow to a sufficient extent. The government wants these proposed solutions to help municipalities or local communities that face major problems in this area and want it to be addressed. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are pleased that the government is looking for the right solutions and is going against the municipalities. In view of the principle of transparency in the allocation of resources from the Water Fund, in which an annual provision of EUR 5 million is foreseen for this purpose, which, in the event of non-useability, can be carried over next year and the maximum amount will not exceed 10 million, these resources will be allocated to the municipalities on the basis of a procedure under the General Administrative Procedure Act offering both options, i.e. a public call and a call for proposals that can be applied according to the type of individual allocation of funds. The first shall be subject to the order of application and the second to the criteria and criteria. At the 16th meeting of the home working body, this is the Committee of the National Council for Infrastructure, Environment and Space, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we expressed a positive opinion on the Government's proposal for a Water Act and also justified the rejection of the two proposed amendments by the two parliamentary groups, which did not go in the direction of the proposed legal solutions in terms of sources of financing and non-compliance with the solidarity of water supply and in terms of the size of municipalities or the number of connections. In our view, the solutions proposed are good and useful. Thus, our opinion or position is based on the fact that the Government's proposal for amendments and the addition of the Water Act is also supported by the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, as well as the fact that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects, has no comments to the proposed text. All of these facts will make it difficult to expect marriage solutions, mainly by the local community or municipalities, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a new law addresses the problem of financing investments in drinking water supply systems and in systems of decommissioning of meteor and waste water, to which individual municipalities operate as a compulsory economic public service. Next. The proposal for a bill addresses the issue of financing compensatory measures to address the consequences of the operation of waters which, in the event of natural disasters, endanger human health and life and property. In accordance with the Water Act, all compensatory measures are implemented within the framework of the compulsory public economic service of the State. The means of carrying out the activities of the compulsory public economic service of the municipality shall be derived from tax sources of averages, compensation for the use of building land, municipal contribution, fees, fines, concession fees and so on. In addition to the revenues mentioned, environmental benefits used by municipalities to build all the necessary infrastructure for the cleaning and decommissioning of meteor water and the provision of drinking water supplies shall also be considered. For those projects, the municipality may obtain funding from the applicable financial perspectives. Problems arise if the municipality fails to meet the criteria for the allocation of funds. It has been established that funds are allocated to water systems projects that provide drinking water supplies to more than 10,000 people. Similar problems arise in the case of co-financing of waste and meteor water systems. Funds under the Operational Programme for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy for the period 2014-2020 are eligible for investments in waste and meteor water systems for projects to build systems that allow the separation of waste and meteor water for more than 2 000 people. The draft law provides for the possibility of funding from the Special Budget Fund, namely the Water Fund, for the new construction or reconstruction of drinking water supply systems or for the new construction or reconstruction of public sewerage in smaller agglomerations, for which it is not possible to obtain funds from the European Union. It is envisaged that no more than 50 % of total funding is allocated to the projects in question by the estimated annual financial inflows of the Water Fund. The municipalities may acquire funds on the basis of calls for proposals. The draft law thus provides that 80 % of the value of the investment may be financed from the Water Fund. At the same time, the topical novelty provides additional funding for compensatory measures to address the consequences of natural disasters that directly endanger human life. The solutions proposed follow the following objectives. The planned changes in co-financing of investments in public water systems represent a step further in the implementation of the Charter's recorded inalienable right to drinking water. On the basis of the funds provided to co-finance waste and meteorological water and intervention systems in the event of natural disasters, the local communities will build or upgrade existing networked municipal infrastructures and thereby prevent or reduce the possibility of irreparable environmental consequences and raise the level of safety and quality of the local population. For this reason, the proposal for a new law will also be supported by the Marjan Sarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments to the energy law, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure Blaž Kosorok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u68	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present to you a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Energy Law (EZ-1C), which is before you today in order to be considered by the National Assembly and, of course, adopted. The proposal to amend and supplement the Energy Act proposes minor changes to the Energy Law in the field of natural gas, which are exclusively intended to transpose the new gas directive into the Slovenian legal order. The new gas Directive 2019/692/EU amends and complements the existing Directive 2009/73/EC on common rules of the internal market in natural gas, which would be transposed into the Slovenian legal order by the Energy Act EC-1 in 2014. The new gas directive was published in May 2019. However, the implementation deadline was very short and expired at the end of February 2020. The objective of Directive 2019/692/EU is to establish coherence between the legal framework of the European Union while avoiding distortions of competition in the internal energy market due to the non-application of the European Union's market rules on transmission lines to and from third countries. The non-application of these rules was a major problem for the internal market of the European Union and European legislation in this area had to be amended and supplemented. The amendments introduced by the Directive ensure that the rules applicable to transmission pipelines linking two or more Member States of the European Union will also apply to transmission pipelines to and from third countries. This will establish coherence of the legal framework within the European Union while preventing distortions of competition in the internal energy market. The Directive improves transparency and legal certainty for market participants, in particular for gas infrastructure investors and network users. With regard to international treaties with third countries that may affect the common rules of the European Union in the field of natural gas, the new gas directive establishes a harmonised and transparent procedure for the approval of negotiations and the signing of a contract which has not been clearly established so far. At its request, the Member State shall be authorised to amend or conclude a contract with a third country in the operation of a transmission pipeline or a pipeline network between a Member State and a third country. The procedure shall be without prejudice to the sharing of powers between the European Union and the Member States and shall apply to existing and new international treaties. In accordance with the Directive of the existing international agreement on the use of transmission pipelines concluded between a Member State and a third country, it shall remain in force. The proposal to amend and supplement the Energy Law (EC-1C) thus follows the necessary implementation of the European Directive and ensures that the rules applicable to transmission pipelines between Member States of the European Union also apply to transmission pipelines from third countries to the Republic of Slovenia or vice versa. To this end, the proposal of the Energy Act contains provisions that define more clearly certain concepts and in particular the tasks of the national regulatory authority, the Energy Agency and the transmission system operator, namely Gas pipelines, d.o.o., in the cross-border cooperation and use of pipelines linked to third countries. The proposal to amend and supplement the Energy Law (EC-1C) also sets out the essential part of the European Commission’s approval procedure in the case of the preparation and conclusion of international agreements between the Republic of Slovenia in the field of transmission pipelines or the area covered by the gas directive. This means, in particular, the approval of the negotiating points and the approval of the signing of the international treaty or agreement itself. As stated, the European Commission’s proposed approval procedure is consistent with or without prejudice to the sharing of powers between the European Union and the Member States. The applicable Energy Act, which covers more than 550 articles, provides for a narrower area of natural gas in approximately 130 articles. The proposed amendment and amendment of the Energy Act, however, concerns only nine articles of the Energy Act. Maybe more information to the National Assembly. The Energy Act (EZ-1C) is probably the last addition to the existing Energy Act. At our ministry, we are rapidly preparing proposals for legislation to transpose the European directives adopted in the Clean Energy package for Europeans in 2018-2019. To this end, we will divide the individual content from the current, relatively large, Energy Law into several laws, as it will only make it easier to work in individual content for the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to invite you to support and accept the proposed amendment to the Energy Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. I give the floor to Edward Paulic to present the report to the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 16th session. 3. 2020 as a parent labour body has considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Energy Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. In a supplementary explanation, the current State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure stressed that the content of the proposal relates exclusively to the transposition of the so-called gas directive into the Slovenian legal order. The new directive aims to establish coherence between the legal framework in the European Union in the field of transmission pipelines while avoiding distortions of competition in the internal energy market. The internal gas market in the European Union will also work better with the application of European Union rules for connecting transmission pipelines to third countries. With regard to the amendment tabled by SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 10 proposing the continuation of Article 485.a, he stressed that the deletion was necessary in his view. This eliminates the legal void created by the intention of the merger of Plinhold and Plinovo, which are currently in the management of SDH. If the amendment is adopted, the legal void will remain and will surely need to be regulated within a few years. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that, within their powers, they had made some comments that had been aimed in particular at making the proposal more clear and more precise. The opinion on the bill was also given by the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which supports the bill. The representative of the Energy Agency pointed out that they supported the proposal for a law and pointed out the necessity of deleting Article 485.a, second paragraph, as that provision was inapplicable. The Agency shall be competent to carry out the certification procedure and to grant the certificate to the system operators of the transmission or distribution network of electricity and natural gas. In this procedure, the Agency must test certain conditions; the currently applicable second paragraph of Article 485.a provides that one of the key conditions will only occur after the issue of the certificate. Under this provision, therefore, the Agency will not be able to complete the certification procedure and grant the certificate, which may also threaten the operation of an existing company carrying out the transfer of natural gas to Slovenia. Without discussion, the Committee adopted the amendments of the SAB Group to Articles 4 and 5 and the amendments of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 10. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u71	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party and Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u72	Thank you, Vice President. The legislative changes we make in our legal order must always be in the direction of achieving positive changes and effects. With the amendment of the Energy Law, which we confirm today, the transposition changes will be introduced by the Directive on common rules of the internal market in natural gas. The Directive was published in May 2019 and the deadline for implementation expired on 24 February this year. This Directive establishes coherence of the acquis in the European Union while avoiding distortions of competition in the internal energy market. The rules applicable to transmission pipelines linking two or more Member States of the European Union will also apply within the European Union to and from third countries. A harmonised legal framework in the European area will prevent negative effects on security of supply and improve transparency and legal certainty for market participants. This applies mainly to network users and gas infrastructure investors. This will end the creation of a legislative framework for the internal market in natural gas. This represents a legal basis and enables the upgrading of trading mechanisms for the reception and trading of gases that will replace natural gas and will be produced on the basis of renewable energy sources. In addition, the draft law also establishes a legal basis for promoting the introduction and implementation of alternative fuels in transport by the State, which is additional evidence to promote the development and use of technologies that reduce environmental burdens. All of this means that we do not care and that we are aware of the importance of environmental care. And since we believe that the changes introduced by the New Energy Law are beneficial and will have positive effects, we will unanimously support the proposal of the SMC Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u74	President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The law transposes into Slovenia the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 amending the Directive on common rules of the internal market in natural gas. The aim of the Directive is to establish coherence between the legal framework for the supply of natural gas in the European Union while avoiding distortions of competition in the internal energy market. Legal certainty is ensured for market participants, in particular for gas infrastructure investors and network users. The rules applicable to transmission pipelines linking two or more Member States of the European Union will be applied in a new way within the European Union for transmission pipelines to and from third countries. The procedure for obtaining negotiating points and negotiated international agreements on the transfer of natural gas by the European Commission will apply uniformly. To this end, the proposal contains provisions that define more clearly the tasks of the transmission system operator and the market regulator. In order to ensure consistency with the European acquis, a procedure for the approval of negotiating points and the approval of the signature of this Treaty by the European Commission is provided for in the draft law on the case of a possible international treaty with a third country. In practice, this means that the Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Russian Federation in cooperation with the construction and operation of the pipeline in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, such as the South Stream, remains in force. However, any amendments to the agreement will be possible in the light of the new requirements of European legislation, and the Member State shall inform the European Commission of the negotiating points, and negotiations with a third country may be negotiated after the source has been confirmed. The final version of the international treaty must be previously approved by the European Commission. The law provides that the second paragraph of Article 485a of the existing Energy Act is deleted, thus transferring the management of the natural gas transmission system operator to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with European Union rules, the natural gas transmission system operator may carry out an economic public service in two forms, either in a proprietaryly separate form or in the form of an independent transmission system operator. In New Slovenia, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr Secretary of State, fellow Members and fellow Members! Today we are considering a proposal for a law submitted to us in January by the previous composition of the government. The main purpose of the proposal is to transpose the Directive amending Directive 2009/73/EC on common rules of the internal market in natural gas into the Slovenian legal order. Although the deadline for implementation has expired on 24 February, it is important that the proposal be adopted as soon as possible. The transposition of that Directive will ensure that the rules applicable to transmission pipelines between Member States of the European Union also apply to transmission pipelines from Member States to third countries. In this way, barriers to the creation of the internal market in natural gas will be definitively removed and the possibility of distorting competition will also be prevented. As a result, the internal market in this area will work better, especially taking into account the fact that the richest natural gas stocks are located in the Middle East and in Russia, that is, in third countries. For each pipeline, the European Commission will have to give advance consent to an international gas pipeline contract with a third country. The amendments included in the proposal by the Energy Agency are also worth mentioning, namely the transfer of the management of the natural gas system operator. The law provides that, in the case of the ownership of a separate operation of the transmission system operator, the management of the State share shall be transferred to the Government in accordance with the rules of the European Union. Before that, the operator must be certified by the Energy Agency. This pointed out that the management of the operator must be transferred to the Government before certification is carried out, as the European Commission must demonstrate to it that management is carried out by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The applicant pointed out that this eliminates the legal void created by the merger of Plinhold and Plinovod. Slovenia does not have its own natural gas resources, so we are dependent on imports in this area, and the proposal will thus have a positive impact on security of supply. In the SAB party, we advocate the use of clean energy. Natural gas is environmentally sound and also offers high energy efficiency. The use of clean energy is essential for the client of the SAB, but it must be accessible to consumers and residents in particular. Compared to other fossil energy sources, natural gas is the cheapest. One of its positive properties is also the universal use. The draft law will therefore be supported by the Members of the SAB Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State, fellow Members and fellow Members! In Slovenia, the use of natural gas has been present since 1974, but the pipeline network began to be built several years later. In the first years, most of the gas came from a Russian source. Today, natural gas is coming to Slovenia through a pipeline network that feeds Europe's consumers. Slovenia has two high-pressure connections to the European gas pipeline network, which provides us with reliable gas supply. Although we cannot say that natural gas is a completely clean source of energy, with the help of modern technologies, we have very high energy efficiency. Although its origin and only its production is similar to oil production, it is the purest fossil fuel. It has the smallest carbon dioxide emissions and can be used in various fields – industry, households, heat and electricity production or as fuel for transport. In particular, we are witnessing a significant increase in household and transport use, as the technology and awareness of gas use across the globe has increased in recent years. Its advantage is also cogeneration, which is the technological process of simultaneous production of useful heat and electricity from the same energy source. Modern cogeneration has high benefits, which is particularly important for rational energy use and environmental protection. Today, the United States, Russia, Canada and China are the largest natural gas producers and consumers. With the help of modern technologies, gas production has progressed in recent years. With special ways, we can find new sites, including in larger depths, and thereby increase the world's available reserves of this energy. In Slovenia, we do not have our own natural gas resources and warehouses, so the supply of this energy is still entirely dependent on imports. In the Desus Group, we know how important it is to enable and safeguard the competitiveness of the offer. Consumption is increasing annually and it is therefore necessary to ensure that all natural gas users are selected for new business opportunities, competitive conditions and prices. This, of course, also contributes to the development of energy generation and exploitation technologies. In the Desus Group, we are aware that natural gas is still one of the energy players of the future. Although we are all ready for zero greenhouse gas emissions or carbon-free society, we must be aware that there is still a long way to go. We need to accept certain compromises that help us bridge the technological hole and further raise people's awareness that one day we can get in the way of a completely clean society. The natural gas and its use will not be said soon from the Energy List, but will reach an even greater range of users. With the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Law, the regulation will follow the provisions of the Directive of the European Union. Similar paths as we have set ourselves are followed by Italy, Spain, Croatia and others. Today, Members of the Desus Group will, of course, support the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Energy Act. We advocate the development of Slovenia in the direction of renewable energy sources. Although natural gas does not fall within the category of renewable resources, it still contributes explicitly to reducing air pollution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u80	Your Honor! To begin by saying that natural gas is the purest fossil fuel with the lowest CO2 emissions in combustion, it is all-inclusive and energy-efficient. The start of the supply of natural gas to Slovenia dates back to 1974, when an agreement was signed on the pooling of funds for the implementation of the gasification programme. The gas network began to be built in 1977, the year after which the first customers in Slovenia began to be supplied and the transport to Croatia. As far as natural gas supply is concerned, we are entirely dependent on imports, because of course it is not everywhere. In addition, it is acceptable for each pocket, as prices are below the average of the European Union and the problem on the table represents all things. The new law is necessary in order to harmonise the law of the European Union, because in the event of a non-acceptance of the risk Republic of Slovenia, the initiation of an official procedure by the European Commission and the payment of large fines, which, of course, we do not want; or, perhaps, who wants. In the Slovenian National Party we also support, among other things, the objective of contributing to security of supply and its sustainability. Finally, barriers to the creation of the natural gas market will be removed due to the non-application of the European Union's market rules for transmission pipelines to and from third countries, which to date has been a major problem. In this way, solidarity assistance will be shown in a positive light. In particular, it is relevant to improve transparency, clarity and legal certainty for gas infrastructure investors and network users. It is right to provide for a harmonised and transparent procedure where the European Commission, for each pipeline running from the members of the European Union to countries outside the European Union, will have to give consent to an international gas pipeline contract with a third country. Of course, we also want there to be as few cross-border disputes as possible, even now that the emergency situation is due to the coronavirus. The Republic of Slovenia shall thus have one agreement on the transmission gas system with the Russian Federation, which shall remain in force for at least 20 years. As it goes, we'll see. We also expect a green light from a branch of the pipeline through Croatia and Slovenia, which is still at the idyllic level. Otherwise, natural gas is sufficient for more than 55 years. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe it is very good that the amendment of the law also focuses on alternative fuels in transport, which are at least partially used as a substitute for fossil fuels and contribute to the decarbonisation of transport, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Our objective absolutely must be sustainable and environmentally oriented towards development in order to reduce transport and thus reduce carbon footprint. In our party, we also call for our country to inform and provide our citizens and citizens with additional financial incentives for purchasing heat pumps. In order to improve the environmental performance of our transport sector, people should decide to purchase hybrid or electric cars. We will support the proposal of the law in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Franc Rosec will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! By means of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, the amendments introduced by Directive 219/692/EU and transposed by a proposal for a law will ensure that the rules applicable to transmission pipelines between the Member States of the European Union also apply to transmission pipelines from the Member States of the European Union to and from third countries. There will also be a uniform application of the procedure for the approval of negotiating points and negotiated international agreements in the field of natural gas transmission. Directive 219/692/EU and its transposition into the national legal order shall conclude the establishment of a legislative framework for the internal market in natural gas, which shall constitute the basis and enable the upgrading of the trading mechanisms for the reception and trading of gases replacing natural gas from synthetic methane, biogas and hydrogen and which will be produced on the basis of renewable energy sources. We support the bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Andreja Zabret will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, chairman. The transmission to the natural gas network is a spinal network that provides uninterrupted supply of natural gas to Slovenian users through international connections within the European Union and third countries. Within the European Union, uniform rules provide competitive conditions for the supply of natural gas at competitive prices, and in particular ensure smooth distribution and reliable supply of natural gas for all Member States of the European Union. Uniform rules have been implemented in the Slovenian legal order by the Directive on common rules of the internal market in natural gas. However, the implementation of the amended Directive, which is foreseen in the proposal for a new law, will apply the uniform rules applicable to the distribution of natural gas within the European Union to transfer to distribution systems between Member States of the European Union and third countries. At the same time, the draft law allows cooperation between the system operators of the Member States and third-country operators on the basis of so-called technical arrangements. The Directive at the same time lays down the sources for the trading and transfer of alternative types of gases, such as synthetic methane, biogas and hydrogen, whose production is based on renewable energy sources. The envisaged measure aims to promote the introduction of renewable energy sources and to reduce dependence on fossil fuels in all economic activities contributing to high shares in total greenhouse gas emissions. The proposed amendment to the Act takes into account the comments of the Energy Agency relating to the amendment of Article 485.a of the Energy Act. The latter shall be amended by creating conditions for the transfer of the State share of the natural gas transmission system operator from SDH to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia before the certification process itself. The Energy Agency may thus issue a certificate as evidence that the operator fulfils all the requirements for the performance of the functions of the natural gas transmission system operator. In relation to this, an amendment has been tabled which retains Article 485.a. As a reason for the amendment tabled, the applicants stated that the Republic of Slovenia is not the 100 % owner of Plinhold and the indirect owner of Plinovo. The certification of Plinhold and the indirect company Plinovod in accordance with the rules of ownership separate form and transfer of the State share from the management of SDH to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will only be possible once the Republic of Slovenia fully owns those companies. Despite the opposition of the representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the representative of the Energy Agency, who argued that a certificate could not be granted on the basis of the new legislation, which could also affect the company's operation, the amendment was adopted. The proposed amendment of the law is therefore intended to transpose the EU Directive into the Slovenian legal order and to follow the instructions of the European Commission, which will ensure the smooth and reliable supply of natural gas under common rules of distribution and trade with non-European Union countries. At the same time, the transposition of the Directive provides a final basis for the creation of rules on gas trade, whose production will not be based on the exploitation of fossil fuels. This creates additional mechanisms to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. In the LMŠ Group, we will support the proposal for a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u86	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honor! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Energy Act, which came under the authority of the competent ministry, has already been discussed by Members and Members on the home committee, where we supported the content of the law. The legal content relates exclusively to the transposition of EU directives into the Slovenian legal order. The main objective of the new amendment is that the rules applicable to transmission pipelines between the Member States of the European Union will also apply to transmission pipelines from the Member States of the European Union to and from third countries. The adoption of the said legislative novelty and the transposition of the directive into the national legal order closes the creation of a legislative framework for the internal market in natural gas, which will form the basis and allow the upgrading of the trading mechanisms for the reception and trading of gases that will replace natural gas. The unification of rules at the level of all members of the European Union is certainly welcome. In the system of functioning of the European Union as a community of sovereign states, this unification is another step towards truly acting in a uniform and coordinated manner as the European Union. Social Democrats welcome the legislative changes that introduce the same rules for all members of the European Union, and at the same time we believe that the directives that simplify the rules at the level of all Member States are still important and welcome, as we will take a step closer to the European Council's decision on the energy Union with each simplification of the functioning of the legal rules. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on divination and hunting, within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Damjan Stanonic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and Members of the House, the distinguished others present, welcome! I am pleased to present to you today the amendments to two important laws on forestry and fisheries, which are the result of fundamental coordination with stakeholders, representative organisations and professionals. The first is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Wildlife and Hunting. The law takes into account all the principles on which the current arrangements are based, of which the most important are the conservation and protection of game as a natural resource, the sustainable management of wildlife, the conservation and enhancement of biological and landscape diversity and the stability of living societies and the improvement of habitats of wildlife. The main solution that I would like to highlight is the arrangement of the transitional period during which the State will be liable for compensation for the damage caused by the jackal. The Wildlife Protection Regulation removed a number of jackals from the list of protected species on 1 May 2020. This means that from 1 May 2020 there will be jackals of game species or game species. Since the jackal has so far been protected, it has not been actively managed, which means that this species has not been hunted, so it has expanded numerically and spatially. It is crucial that, during the transitional period of five years in which the results of the active management of the jackal population are expected, the State and not the operators of the fishing grounds will be liable for the damage caused by the jackal. In addition to this addition, the law brings in other minor amendments and additions, which clearly and unequivocally define the provisions of the law so far or constitute a rationalisation of procedures. At the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, we believe that the law brings solutions that are transparent, understandable and most optimal in terms of the situation on the ground. A few key points. A clear delimitation of powers between the Ministry, which may permit exceptional intervention under Article 42 of the Act, and the powers of the hunting inspector, who shall determine the discharge for urgent reasons. The next amendment is a change to the annual two-year hunting plan for the hunting area, which will allow for more flexible planning within two years. The next amendment is to complement the recognition of the theoretical part of the hunting examination. Candidates for forestry schools will have to take a partial examination of the content they have not yet carried out in the framework of regular education. The next amendment is recognition of the hunting examinations carried out in the Member States of the European Union. On the basis of a certificate of a hunting examination and an administrative examination of knowledge in the field of Slovenian hunting legislation, candidates will be able to obtain a certificate of a hunting examination. This will also allow our natives to obtain a hunting test, which they have been pursuing for more than a decade. The following amendment is a more detailed regulation and transmission of data on the legal convictions and rights of hunting families in representing the interests of maintaining the protection of game and its living environment and fishing in the hunting area in all administrative and judicial proceedings. This is a few key proposed solutions to the law, which I hope you will give him your vote. Once again, by adopting the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Wildlife and Hunting, we will properly regulate compensation for the damage caused by the jackal, get a clearer, more unambiguous law and reduce certain administrative procedures and bureaucracy. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Jani Ivanuša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u90	All the present, good afternoon; especially to the Secretary of State and, of course, to you, to the Vice-President of the National Assembly. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the bill at its 20th emergency meeting. 4. 2020. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food participated; representatives of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food; Legislative and Legal Services; Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia; Institute for Forests of Slovenia; and, of course, the representative of the Hunting Union of Slovenia. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which made comments on most of the articles of the draft law which were taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups. In the context of the debate on Article 1 of the bill, the main discussion was on the planning period. According to a proposal from the government, the annual plans will replace the two-year plans for hunting areas. Member Predrag Baković has tabled an amendment to this article to extend the two-year plans to three years, since three-year planning would be more transparent and cost-effective, as game operators would be more responsive to unplanned conditions: mass deaths due to weather conditions, traffic accidents, greater damage to game and so on. On the contrary, the representatives of the Slovenian Forestry Institute and the Agricultural Forestry Chamber felt that a two-year period was optimal, but if practice showed that changes were needed, they could be implemented later. The representative of the Hunting Union of Slovenia, however, pointed out that the question of whether the plan is one-year, two-year-old or three-year-old is not essential, since the link between the fact that it pays damages motivates the population to manage in an acceptable manner. The Secretary of State added that the two-year regime was large enough and that the three-year period would be too extensive for him to predict what the consequences would be. The Committee voted on that amendment and did not adopt it. The debate also took place on Article 8 of the proposal for a law defining an agreement between the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food on the transfer of funds already foreseen by the Ministry of Environment and Space for damages caused by jackal in the current budget for 2020 and 2021, and on the amendment of coalition groups to this article, which would provide for the damage caused by jackal in the period from the law to 30. 4. 2023 corresponded to the Republic of Slovenia in the amount of actual damage. On the basis of the debate in which it was specifically pointed out that the five-year period is more optimal for the implementation of the reduction of the jackal population, the Committee prepared and adopted its amendment to the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 8 by which that deadline is extended to 30. 4. 2025. There were also discussions on some other amendments to the law, such as the implementation of surveillance with video devices, the powers of the hunting inspector, access to criminal records. It has also been commended to the drafter of the law for the solutions, after several decades of efforts, we will be able to carry out our hunting examinations in other countries of the European Union, and this solution has been followed mainly by the long-standing desire of the Slovenians. The conclusion also highlights the fact that the Wildlife and Hunting Act is subject to frequent changes and that due to better transparency it would be advisable to prepare a copy of the Wildlife and Hunting Act. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee identified and adopted the amendments tabled by the coalition groups by Articles 2, 4, 7, 8 and 9. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of Mr Predrag Baković to Article 1 and did not define himself until his amendment to Article 7. Since the non-admission of the amendment to Article 1 made the amendment irrelevant to Article 2, the amendment was withdrawn by the amendment. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u92	Your Honor! In Novi Slovenija we advocate a coordinated and cohesive development of agriculture and forestry. We also advocate that, in broad agreement with farmers and forest owners in Slovenia, more than 400 000 should be taken and that measures should be taken professionally to reduce the parking lot of game and beast causing damage to agricultural and forest land. The Wildlife and Hunting Act is one of the laws that would first need a comprehensive overhaul and modernisation. The question of whose wild game is free to graze and cause damage in the forests opens at the same time as the amendment of this law, as well as the assessment of damage to agricultural and forest land. That this is the way we know it in Slovenia, to the refugees in the European Union, shows that this area is still ideological in nature. In New Slovenia we welcome the amendments to this law, which are aimed at better management and protection of game and sustainable management. To the point of wildlife and beast management, it showed a proliferation of jackals. The jackals, as a non-autochton species with the existing management method, multiplied numerically as well as spatially, thus requiring immediate action and population reduction. The jackal will thus become a hunting species or game managed by the Hunting Union on 1 May 2020. The transitional period during which the State will indemnify compensation for the damage caused by the jackal will be valid for a period of five years, thus extending until 2025. The amendment of the law also entails a change of plans for hunting areas. These change from annual to biannual plans for hunting areas, which should mean better and more cost-effective management of game. In the countryside, there is a lack of adequate planning, as farmers have to fence their forest properties and fields and vineyards to prevent damage. After several decades of efforts, the law also provides for the organisation of hunting examinations for the citizens of the European Union, which our foreign Slovenians have worked hard to achieve. Performing hunting examinations will be both in Slovenia and in the Slovenian language. Respect for the laws, regulations and mutual respect of all stakeholders is the key to good governance and the possibility of human and animal coexistence. In New Slovenia, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present. The jackals are an interesting and sustainable species, they are vultures and predators living in pairs or family trails, they form territorial groups and they are monogamous. The jackal first appeared in our area in 1953. The jackal that settled with us is not dangerous to a man. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Wildlife and Hunting Act defines jackals as an insured species, which will become a hunting species with effect from 1 January 2021 in view of changes on the Committee, not as of 1 May. Since the jackal has not been actively managed so far, it has subsequently spread numerically and spatially throughout Slovenia. European legislation does not know the protection of jackals, so there is no problem with amending our domestic legislation. In the SAB, we do not object to the fact that jackal has become a hunting species, as it has been heavily propagated and caused damage in recent years, especially to farmers. The jackals carried out quite a few attacks on domestic animals, especially on the newborn smallpox in the karst area, to which we warned in the party SAB last year. However, the shooting itself is not sufficient to address jackal depopulation, and other measures are needed. Cases and studies abroad have shown that the shooting has a rather limited impact on the jackal population, as the type of increased shot responds by increasing reproduction. Interesting species, as I warned you at the beginning. In Bulgaria, they shoot 20,000 jackals a year, great for hunters, but it has no major impact on the population. The jackal population should also be limited to other measures, notably with reduced access to human food. Food analyses have shown that jackals, which in the natural environment feed on carrots and rodents, as well as forest fruits, are very good for waste. Especially improper and inappropriate slaughterhouse waste, as well as agricultural crops. This is primarily a matter of professional concern, so excessive policy interference does not benefit anyone, as has been shown by bears and wolves. But we are witnessing quite a lot of interference as well as legal harassment, which unnecessarily separates Slovenians from those rurals; and it is electrical. One is for full protection, the other is gonna shoot everyone. I don't think that's necessary. Let's just let it go. We unnecessaryly separate people and the public, give more words to the profession. The management of the game must be left to experts, who must be included in the hunters. I don't mind a hunter, they know nature, they follow. And they also advocate an appropriate shot; not shoot everything, but a suitable shot to keep the population at a sustainable level. The active management of jackals provides for a transitional period of five years in which the State itself will actively manage the population and also cover the damage that is to be caused. I think one such transitional period is appropriate. After this period, the management of the hunting families or the operators of the hunting grounds and also the settlement of the damage resulting therefrom. The management of wild game by law is based on regular monitoring of the situation and is planned with plans, ensuring comprehensive sustainable management of the species as prescribed by the law. If we have extended this planning to two years, this is appropriate because it rationalises the matter. We welcome this to the SAB party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! The biodiversity of our precious forests is reflected in the variety of plant and wildlife species. The favourable natural conditions, especially the conservation of habitats, affect the fact that in Slovenia, in addition to species known elsewhere in Europe, we have some species that have already disappeared elsewhere. The diversity of our forest ecosystem is also reflected in the number and spread of some animal species, but some species are not further observed until they cross our path or when we detect the damage they cause. Hunting families, registered in Slovenia about 420, play an important role in wildlife management. The Wildlife Protection Regulation has preserved a number of jackals, which means that the species will be hunted on May 1st this year. Since the jackal has so far been protected and consequently has not been actively managed, it has expanded numerically and also spatially, according to the competent ministry. The proposal for a novel of the Wildlife and Hunting Act lays down the arrangements for a transitional period of five years in which the State will be liable in reparation for the damage caused by the jackal. Although game hunting is considered to be caused by the damage caused by the latter, the fisheries that are mainly hunting families are paid out. The amendment also provides more clearly and unequivocally for the provisions of the law by amending the annual plans of the hunting zone into two years, complementing the recognition of the theoretical part of the hunting test, allowing operators to obtain data from criminal records for the purposes of extending the validity of the hunting cards, extending the course of education which is a condition for the appointment of a hunting inspector, and clarifying the delimitation of powers between the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the hunting inspector. The proposed amendments to the law will allow, after years of effort, to be carried out by the people of other European Union countries. The latter was further welcomed by the representative of the Hunting Union at the meeting of his mother’s working body, the solution in this area being the long-standing desire of the foreign Slovenians. The proposed amendments to the law were adopted by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food without a vote against. It is also of great importance that representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Hunting Union, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber and the Institute of Forests have joined forces in preparing the novel. Joint cooperation brings positive results in all areas, and such a relationship would also indicate future cultivation. The Desus Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Wildlife and Hunting Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u98	Thank you very much, chairman. Nice greetings again to all present! The content of the law under consideration today is in the control and management of jackals. The jackals will become a hunting species or game of prey as of 1 May 2020. Since they were insured, they were not able to be actively managed, so they expanded numerically and spatially. The jackals, as a non-autochtonous species with the existing management method, multiplied the situation to such an extent that they require immediate action. The only acceptable measure is firing, which we strongly support. In practice, there have already been cases where farmers for the prevention of damage fence their forest holdings, vineyards and so on. Jackal is a vulture and predator who works mainly in the nighttime, so none of us want to get in touch with him. As predators, they arouse fear, for they also guard against prey near residential buildings. In the Slovenian National Party, we will be very happy to support the shooting of a non-automatic species because it has nothing to look for in our territory. At the same time, we note the recently adopted Law Code, where animals are defined as sensitive beings. We believe that this is a contradiction, because the same proposer presents marriage solutions that contradict each other. A little joke, a little bit of this place, I wonder if it comes with the shooting of an animal maybe for a crime of murder or murder. For the reason that the jackal has grown largely numerically and spatially, the State will be liable for the property damage it will cause during the transitional period of five years instead of the hunting operator. However, after a five-year period, compensation will be transferred to operators of hunting grounds, as is the case with all species of game causing damage to agricultural and forestry crops. In view of the commitment of the Hunting Union of Slovenia to be liable for compensation after the end of the five-year period, the latter will be particularly motivated to regulate the population either by jackals or by other wildlings in an acceptable manner. Under the new law, Slovenians will also be able to perform hunting examinations in their homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u100	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues, everyone's welcome! In the SDS Group, I hope that we will also support the amendment of the proposal of the Wildlife and Hunting Act in agreement with all other parliamentary groups. In our view, this law goes to the collection of those laws that bring administrative burdens on a particular area. We also welcome this intention in the SDS Group of Members, which the ministry already had in its previous composition, when the SDS Group, as a former opposition party, presented this law. Even then, regardless of our situation, whether we are members of the coalition or the opposition, we have given our principled agreement to support this law, which brings solid administrative burdens. We also support in the SDS Group the purpose of the law, which was created in cooperation with the Hunting Union, with the Institute for Forests and the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. We believe that this is the right way to regulate certain matters in practice. We will also propose to the ministry in the SDS Group that it make so-called writings, or that this law be changed in the following year, in due course, even at individual stages. Above all, we will propose that Article 29 be amended, as we have already proposed in 2017, so that the total amount of concession fee remains with the municipalities. In the SDS Group, we welcome all the administrative burdens, especially the two solutions. The first is that it comes from a two-year hunting plan because it has long been proposed by individual hunting families and the Hunting Association, because it is a matter of unloading them and better planning their work. We also welcome in the SDS Group all these solutions in the field of hunting exams, as we have heard many times today that other countries can also carry out hunting examinations with us, especially the long-term realization of the desire of foreign Slovenians. In the parliamentary group, we also welcome the solutions in the field of hunting cards, the rights of the hunting family and the new operation of the hunting inspectors. We also welcome the solution in the SDS Group that instead of the Ministry of Environment and Shakal space, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which has already indicated that it can take a more serious approach to solving open issues that we have been alerted to by individual hunting families, the Hunting Union and the inhabitants of individual regions in Slovenia, who have seen jackals in their backyards. We support and welcome the solution that jackals become a hunting species to reduce the damage caused by jackals: I also think that it has come to an optimum solution to replace this time of regulating the area of jackals from the proposed three to five years. We believe that in these five years we will find such a suitable solution that we will no longer come with systemic or non-systemic solutions to the law or that we will no longer have to deal with the legislative level with the jackal; but that will be regulated by those who are responsible, that is, the hunters themselves. We believe that the law is one of those laws that brings at least administrative burden to hunters, and from this point of view we also hope that the Ministry of Agriculture will draw up, in the course of its mandate, various new laws that will also take place in other segments within the area of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the solution that will go towards the administrative burdens of hunters or all other entities which are somehow related to agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Edvard Paulič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Dear Presidents, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The LMŠ Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Wildlife and Hunting Act. It will support it because the competent ministry has concluded that the time for intervention in the jackal population is not at risk, as this species is not at our disposal and we will try to limit the damage it causes so that the situation does not get out of control, which could have happened without a shot. The jackal was present in Slovenia all the time, but very rare, so it was not disruptive and did not affect the natural balance in our area. Today, however, it is quite different. The jackal population has spread considerably in Slovenia and is therefore able to track it as far as the roads, on the edge of the forest, in orchards, near the locals and chickens. As early as 2017, 49 attacks on domestic animals were listed. The number of attacks and the amount of damage caused by jackals increases each year. The jackals are currently subject to a strict protection system in our country, while at the same time the Wild and Hunting Ages Regulation defines them as savages. That's how we have a legal conflict. One rule completely protects him from interference with the population and another makes it possible. The adoption of the said amendment or amended Annex 1 to the Regulation is important because, with May 1, none of the ministries has a legal basis for the payment of the damage caused by the jackal. The Wildlife Protection Regulation has removed a number of jackals from the list of protected species, which means that the species from May 1st will be hunted. Since the range of jackals has been protected and has not been actively managed, over the last ten years it has spread widely and spatially, especially on Kras, on the coast, around the Ljubljana Bar, the White Landscape, Prekmurje. According to some studies, there are estimated to be between 750 and thousands of jackals in Slovenia. Therefore, during the transitional period in which the results of the active management of such a population are expected, the damage caused by the jackal will be liable and paid by the Ministry of Agriculture, irrespective of whether it is a hunting or non-fishing area. However, the Ministry of Environment and Space will provide the Ministry with the necessary financial resources for the payment of compensation, and later the agricultural sector will receive the funds directly, while underlining the section's opinion that the shelling will not endanger the population in Slovenia. In addition to this addition, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Wildlife and Hunting provides for minor amendments, additions which mainly introduce greater clarity and clarity of the existing provisions of the law. We are aware that jackals are living creatures, as well as useful animals, for example, suppressing pests on the processing surfaces, removing animal waste. We support intervention in its number only in a way that is responsible and professional, so that an action plan is drawn up, how we will manage this species and what we want to achieve in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Predrag Baković will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u104	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, the representative of the government! The novelty of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting in front of us does not govern the provisions governing the shooting or the active management of jackals. These novels are also governed by provisions relating to the recovery of damage to people caused by jackals. True, gold or ordinary jackal is a native species in Europe. The jackals live mainly in the Mediterranean countries and have increased dramatically in Slovenia over the last 20 years. This overcrowding has, of course, caused considerable damage, especially to poultry and poultry. Therefore, the jackal under the Regulation on protected wild animals is drawn from the list of protected species and will be re-hunted on 1 May. However, as has already been said, this novel does not regulate the shelling of jackals, but has produced a legal proposal at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food which regulates the transitional period during which the state will pay compensation for the damage caused by the jackal. The Ministry considered that the transitional period for the payment of compensation should be set at three years and that compensation resulting from fishing and non-fishing should also be paid at that time. On our proposal, that is to say, on the proposal of the Social Democrats, we have adopted an amendment on the Committee, which extended the payment deadline from three years to five years. This seems extremely important to us that the state assumes responsibility for the payment of damages for the period of three years, because it would be difficult for the operators to properly manage the jackal population to such an extent that the damage caused by the latter would be reduced. However, after three years, since the jackal population would not have been adequately reduced, this financial damage would have put a heavy financial burden on individual fisheries operators. The five-year period is therefore a more appropriate deadline, since operators will be able to gradually reduce the population and there will be no over-hypnotic reductions that could only endanger the population. If the period is too short, there may also be errors in the execution of tasks due to time pressure. If the period is longer, hunting families can carry out the tasks legally correct and also of quality. The budget also has been transferred from the Ministry of the Environment and Space to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food for the period of the budget already adopted, which has so far been intended to compensate for the damage caused by the jackal, as the Regulation on Wildlife Species has also transferred the responsibility of managing from the Ministry of the Environment to the Ministry of Agriculture. In addition to this provision, the Ministry proposes to rationalise procedures for the adoption of plans for hunting areas, as they will only be adopted for two years and not more each year, making administrative management more burdensome. However, changes are also in the rules and standards for the recognition of hunting examinations. It will also be possible to obtain data from criminal records from hunters who, in accordance with the law, organise the conduct of the hunting service and consequently take decisions related to the rights, obligations and responsibilities of their members. In all judicial and administrative proceedings, game conservation and protection operators will have the right to represent the interests of conservation and protection of game, its habitat and fishing in the area of the fishing area for which they are awarded a concession from the State. However, the novelty also provides that video devices will be able to control certain hunting sites, such as feeding grounds, salinies, meadows and the like, as well as sites where game owners feed the game in contravention of the plans of hunting areas, and over game takeover sites in accordance with veterinary regulations. In this respect, it is recalled that such video surveillance should be carried out in accordance with the general rules already adopted governing video surveillance, so that such video surveillance is duly marked and that the operator of the catch is informed accordingly. The Social Democrats will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Gregor Židan will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The distinguished representative of the Government, honourable Members and honourable Members! Today we have before us a proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Law on Wildlife and Hunting. And the problem was the jackal. The jackal was first observed in Slovenia in 1953 in the area of Ljubljana Bar and around Tolmin. However, it has expanded largely over the past ten years. Today, it lives almost all over Slovenia, with the exception of higher hills and steep forests. It is an extremely opportunistic species that is found and survived almost everywhere and is very difficult to control in the space where we are settled. In the last decade, the population of jackals has not only increased in Slovenia, and the area where they live has also increased. At the same time, the population trend is rapidly increasing. Also, according to some experts, the appropriate potential living space of the jackal has not yet been occupied. By 1 May 2020, the jackal will be a protected species, which means that it has not been actively managed so far and has consequently expanded numerically and spatially. The Department of Nature Protection issued an assessment of the threat to jackals and found that species in Slovenia are not at risk, so there are no reasons to manage the jackal population under strict insurance. The jackal population can be preserved in the context of sustainable management, whose general objective is to preserve the species population at such a level that it does not become threatened. The main solution in the bill we are adopting today is to provide for a transitional period of five years in which the state will be responsible for compensation for the damage caused by the jackal. After this period of five years, compensation will be transferred to operators of hunting grounds, as is the case with all species of game causing damage to agricultural and forest crops. During the transitional period, the State will respond indemnity whether damage will occur on the hunting or non-fishing surface. Along with the above-mentioned main solution, the proposal for a law brings some minor amendments and additions that I will not repeat, which are more clearly defined by the provisions of the law so far. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will support the changes and additions made by the proposal for a law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u107	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on additional measures to remedy the damage caused by the redistribution of the population of subcontractors, within the framework of the reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Damjan Stanonic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and Members. Allow me to present another proposal for amendments to the law under the competence of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which is discussed at today's meeting of the National Assembly, is a proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on additional measures to remedy the consequences of the resurgence of the population of the subscribers. The amendments and additions relate to the specificities of the administrative procedure in the issue of decisions on sanitary cuts and the implementation of protective works and to the simplification of the process of taking changes and complementing the forest management plan of the forest management unit in the event of a natural disaster in the forest. By means of the proposed law, we allow forest owners to submit to the Slovenian Institute of Forests, before the expiry of the deadline laid down in the decision fixing the protection works, an application for an extension of the period referred to in the decision, provided that there are objective reasons for this, such as weather conditions, the acquisition of all required consents or the authorisation to build a forest infrastructure or road, the closure of local roads and so on. The owner of the forest may also require that the institution in the decision amend the volume of the sanitary section and, if necessary, extend the period for its implementation. This is particularly true if in the field the extent of the damaged tree is shown to be greater after the decision has been issued than was initially established. The owner of the request shall be decided by the institution by means of a decision by which the owner is refused or refused by the owner. The bill also allows that, if the intervention resulting from the sanitary drain as a consequence of the natural disaster in forests at the level of the forest management unit exceeds 25% of the possible cut, changes to the forest management plan of the forestry management unit will be adopted in a simplified manner. The institution shall make a proposal for amendments and supplement the plan and submit an application to the Ministry responsible for the environment for a decision on the obligation to carry out a comprehensive environmental impact assessment. The institution shall then submit to the Ministry responsible for forestry for the adoption of a proposal for amendments and for the completion of the forest management plan of the forestry unit without prior procedures laid down in the forest law and irrespective of the year of the regulatory period. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on additional measures to remedy the consequences of the overcrowding of the population of subscribers has no financial implications for the State budget and other public financial resources. The proposed amendments and additions to the law do not introduce new policies or strategic orientations, but only allow for more effective action in cases where there is a natural disaster of wider dimensions and where it is caused by the overcrowding of the population of subscribers in the forest. In such situations, effective action is crucial as it limits the economic and environmental damage in forests caused by the overcrowding of the population of subscribers. Amendments and additions to the law also allow the adoption of forest management plans for forest management units affected by natural disasters in a simplified way. This reduces administrative barriers and allows the implementation and adoption of the amended and complementary forestry plan of the forestry management unit, which is a key professional basis for the restoration of affected forests. The adoption of amendments and the updating of the law are essential to prevent the spread of duplicates after natural disasters and to maintain and strengthen bioequilibrium in forests. I therefore hope that you will accept the proposals and thus support our joint efforts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Jani Ivanuša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u110	Once again a nice greeting on behalf of the Agriculture Committee. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the bill 23. Fourth in the 20th emergency session. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food participated, the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Legislative and Legal Service, the Agricultural Forestry Chambers of Slovenia and the Institute for Forests of Slovenia. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which made specific comments on all articles of the bill. These comments were taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups and were adopted by the Committee. In an additional explanation for the written opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service first highlighted the problem of the legislative approach itself to amending the Law on additional measures to remedy the consequences of damage caused by the overcrowding of the population of subscribers. According to the applicant, already in 2014 there was a glomerulus in 2017, which can in fact be considered as two events, the consequences of which are long-term. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, these consequences are already regulated by two system laws, namely the Forest Act and the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents; there are two other intervention laws. All these laws have already determined that damage to the population of subscribers is a natural disaster. In the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the intervention nature of the law has been lost by all these facts and legislation, and the Legislative and Legal Service has therefore assessed that it is not the right approach to amend the intervention law. In addition to the above, the proposal of the law, as designed, no longer refers only to basements, but to the wider scope, both in general, of natural disasters and to the wider harm causing; and not only to the proliferation of the population of subscribers. It further substantiated its comments on the individual articles on the basis of which the Ministry of Justice has drawn up proposals for amendments to address most of the concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service. The amendments are summarised in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups and have also been adopted by the Committee. The President of the Commission of the National Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the President of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia presented the opinion of the Commission and the Chambers supporting the proposal of the law, as it contributes to greater operationality and speed in solving problems on the ground. At the same time, the Chamber points out that forest management would require more comprehensive solutions, including climate change requiring strategic reflection on changing natural conditions, to which the profession does not yet provide comprehensive answers. The Commission proposes that the way to address the problem covered by the proposed amendment of the law, as well as other similar intervention measures, be integrated into the future more appropriately and in the longer term into the Forest Act, which will define new elements for the development of the economic sector or other sectoral legislation. The Director of the Slovenian Institute for Forests, however, stressed that the Institute has much work to do in the administrative field when there is such a proliferation of the subscribers as we have witnessed, so that it issues about 10,000 decisions a year. Therefore, any simplification of the procedure, as proposed by this bill, is welcome and will also allow employees in the institution to spend more time in the field and advise forest owners on how to cope with the crisis. Members of the committee did not discuss the proposed solutions to the amendment. In conclusion, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the draft law together. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u111	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, chairman. Say good-bye to everyone again! Slovenian forests are our wealth. This is deep in our consciousness, so we were taught in school and also in our Green Slovenia play take over the forests of the central city. Unfortunately, this wealth has suffered a great deal of damage in recent years, which is still happening and will be; not only as a result of many natural grips, acorns, windfalls, but also in large part as a result of the mass reproduction of the materiel. Since the end of 2014 there has been a lot of effort and work to repair the damage, but apparently not enough. The figures contained in the proposed amendment of the law clearly tell us that additional measures are needed without delay. The damage caused is not only experienced by owners of forest and other agricultural areas, but also by the Slovenian economy and the entire environment. The biggest problem is with the spruce skull, which our Member of Parliament, Franz Kramar, has been alerting since his performance. The share of spruce between the damaged trees, if taken in 2017 and 2018, in the windshield was more than 90% spruce. As a result, numerous sanitary cuts were carried out in the forestry area of Bleda, Slovenj Gradca, Kočev. Damaged spruce is paradise for the underdogs. These are much easier to attack damaged than healthy trees that defend themselves with their natural resistant mechanisms, including pitifulness. In addition, we experience in Slovenia due to weather changes also mild winters. This enables the underlings who develop in the autumn to survive the winter and to strike in the spring, breed, fly around and move to other trees and other forests. I'd say it's a similar phenomenon to a pandemic. All the forests are in the same boat, so all the forests need to be treated. Let's say last summer's storm in July caused new injuries to the spruce that are scattered through the woods. It is necessary to look at all the forests driven by the storm with a strong wind, to remove these fallen trees, and to remove them from the forest. The proposal for amendments to the Act on additional measures to remedy the effects of damage is well placed and proposes solutions that will facilitate the rehabilitation from entry into the forest to the implementation of sanitary cuts. In the SAB Group, it is important that we facilitate these procedures and practices for the beneficiaries. With this law and these changes, we will help, take important steps to remedy the situation, and prevent further damage from occurring. Therefore, in the SAB Group, we will support the changes and additions to the law and thus follow sustainable, co-natural and multi-purpose forest management. These changes should also be a call for a comprehensive review of how forest management is managed, so that there will be no more damage to the ground. All the woods are connected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Nice greeting to the Secretary of State and to all of you in the Chamber! We can't imagine Slovenia without the forests of speed. Forests in Slovenia cover 60% of our area, which ranks us third in the European Union by forestry. The forest is a rich source of biodiversity, an invaluable treasure of plant and wildlife species, which is a source of food and protection. In addition to oxygen production, forests have a large protective effect on the immediate and distant environment. They are a source of wood and, as a result, a source of income and promote an active and healthy lifestyle. The importance of our greatest natural wealth is so priceless. This year’s International Forest Day, celebrated on March 21st each year, took place under the palpable slogan of the Gozda and biodiversity — too precious to lose. The fact is that deforestation and forest degradation and climate change threaten biodiversity. In the past, not even our country has been spared by natural traps. It remained in our memory a devastating phalange in 2014, followed by the largest number of subscribers since World War II; and an additional windstorm in 2017, which made the situation worse. The adoption of the Act on additional measures to remedy the consequences of the overcrowding in 2018 was so urgently necessary. The new law that we have before us brings two essential substantive changes aimed at ensuring faster and more effective implementation of the sanitary section and other protective measures to prevent the spread of the ground and to maintain and strengthen the bioequilibrium in the forests. A specific arrangement is laid down whereby the forest owner could submit a request for an extension of the period before the expiry of the decision fixing the protective parts, of course if objective grounds were to be provided, and a request for a change in the volume of the sanitary section and the time limit for its implementation. The second amendment proposes to shorten the process of modifying and complementing the forestry plan of a specific forestry management unit relating to the removal of the damage caused by the restocking of the sub-branch population. In the event of natural disasters, expertise, operationality and rapid resolution of problems, as well as simplification of procedures, are essential. There is a need to commend all representatives of professional associations who, with their knowledge and practical experience together with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, have prepared these professional solutions. Field work in the forest and caring for it is of utmost importance both to us and to all our future generations. In the Desus Group, we will support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Additional Measures to Eliminate the Consequences of the Renumeration of the Population of Beneficiaries. Whether such accidents occur in Slovenia and the world as little as possible, this is what we want.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Chairman. Your Honors are here! Overcrowding in all these years, especially in 2019, has turned into a natural disaster. We have a serious problem ahead of us, so we must deal with it with all due care and listen in particular to the solutions of the profession. The law may not be properly prepared legally, but we believe that it is necessary to accept it because it helps to solve problems on the ground, and these are few. The proposed amendment of the law ensures faster and more effective implementation of sanitary cutting and other protective measures to prevent the spread of duplicates after natural disasters in forests and to maintain and strengthen bioequivalence in forests. The proposed novelty is also supported by the forestry profession. The problem was due to weather conditions, such as the pharynx and the wind. The large overcrowding of spruce cellars is mainly due to the phlegm in 2014, which creates ideal conditions for their development, and in 2015 the weather conditions for the development of basements were very favourable. This is why we have a problem in 2020, in all the forests of the country, and it is right to rescue it as quickly as possible. It should be stressed that Slovenia is at the very top of the European Union on the surface of forests. The forest covers 58% of our country's surface. Just because we are such a forest country, the problem that arose in 2014 is being solved today. It's huge surfaces. According to 2017 data, the proportion of spruce is 31 %. As a result of the captures, there has been a proliferation of basements, so it is right that forests should be properly rehabilitated as soon as possible. With the rehabilitation of forests, we will make sure that we can continue to be proud of our vast forest areas, which, after all, represent national wealth. This amendment allows forest owners to submit an application for an extension of the period laid down in the provisions on the fixing of protective works before the expiry of the period laid down in the Decision. If the semen due to sanitary cuts as a consequence of a natural disaster in forests at the level of the forest management unit exceeds a quarter of a possible cut, changes to the forest management plan of the forestry management unit shall be adopted following a reduced finding procedure, which in practice means very short deadlines. It is important for forest owners to regularly inspect their forests, and in the event that attacked trees are observed, they immediately perform a sanitary section. The trees must be cut down as soon as possible and removed from the forest. Let us remain proud of our forests and deal with them responsibly in the future. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u118	Thank you again for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, once again a nice round of greetings! Slovenia can be proud of its forests, but the fact is that when we look at these Slovenian forests, we can find that unfortunately these Slovenian forests are getting smaller and smaller. In 2013 they hit the Slovenian forest ecosystem with a strong grip on the celery and in 2017. However, the additional damage was caused by the overcrowding of the population of the underprivileged. In 2014, in 2015 and also in 2017 and 2018, we in the SDS Group drew attention to the speed of solving the problem. We called emergency meetings, proposed conclusions, proposed draft laws, but they were not all serious enough about what was happening to Slovenian forests. From this city we commend the Institute for Forests, which has constantly warned that what is happening in Slovenian forests must be resolved quickly; but part of the then ruling policy has not understood the seriousness of the situation. Instead of saving Slovenian forests, a part of the policy was to establish a company for state forests and showed that natural persons are the owners who are the worst owners of Slovenian forests; but the facts are different. The fact is, the country is no better owner than natural persons. We are not resolved in 2020 and we are dealing with the subscribers because they did not respond properly in 2013 and 2015. We therefore need to adopt today a new Law on additional measures to remedy the consequences of the damage caused by the restocking of the population of subscribers, which is going in the right direction. It's going in the direction that some laws are going in today. It is aimed at reducing the administrative burden that the predecessors of this Ministry have recalled in order to talk about how to help Slovenian forests, and in practice in the text of the articles of the law they have written such matters that have either prevented the Institute of Forests or individual owners from quickly implementing individual measures. Therefore, in the SDS Group we support solutions that allow forest owners to submit a request to the Slovenian Institute of Forests before the expiry of the deadline. We also welcome the changes in the forest management plan of the forest management unit in order to adopt this in a reduced manner. In short, we are today adopting at least a few laws in the field of agriculture that are for the benefit of those concerned. Previously, we have talked about wildlife and hunting and about the hunters we are helping, now we are talking about the owners we are helping to approach as quickly as possible as rationally and as effectively as possible the rehabilitation of what our partner has done to us in the Slovenian forests. From this point of view, we therefore expect the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food to continue to propose legislation at such a pace that is conducive to all those who want a quick solution in the field of agriculture and, above all, to be as viable as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Jože Lenart will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State! When we think of the expression Green Slovenia, with which we also promote Slovenian tourism, is of particular importance the Slovenian forest, which covers almost 60% of the Slovenian country. Slovenia is one of the most forested countries in the European Union; immediately for Finland, Estonia and Latvia. It is essential for us to preserve the forest mainly because of the environmental impact, as forests are our lungs. At annual level, they contribute to the capture of 7.5 million tonnes of carbon dioxide and produce 5.5 million tonnes of oxygen. Our forests not only help the environment but also protect 950 plant species and provide shelter to 195 animal species. They also provide for the prevention of reptiles and retain rainwater, which also affects the prevention of floods. More and more human intervention in this area undermines the natural balance. It is important for all of us to live in co-existence with the forest and to preserve it, as it also contributes to preserving jobs and opening new ones in the wood industry sector. Thus, the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on additional measures to remedy the effects of damage caused by the restocking of the population of subscribers are of utmost importance. In order to preserve our forests, it is so important to rehabilitate the forests in a timely and rapid manner, which are threatened by the attacks of the Lubadares. The law will contribute to shortening the process of adopting changes and complementing the individual unit's forestry plan. In the case of justified reasons, the owner will be able to request an extension of the deadline by applying to the Forestry Institute. The institution will then grant or refuse the request. In the event that it is later established on the ground that larger surface remediation is required, as originally envisaged, an increase in the size of the cut and an extension of the recovery time period may be required. In this case, the Office also decides whether to approve or reject the application; it amends and supplements the law already adopted in 2018 and the proposal for a new law has already been prepared during the time of the government of Marjan Šarc. The proposed amendments and additions to the Act are of particular importance at a time when the skull has increased rapidly in recent years due to natural disasters and climate change. In 2014, we witnessed a glomerulus in the country that damaged more than 50% of the forest’s surfaces. The recovery of the consequences of the phalanges is still under way and is expected to be completed in 2020. In 2017, and in Koroška as well as in 2018, there were windshields which affected the necessary cutting of trees with a size exceeding 3 million cubic metres. All of this has affected the promotion of the spread of the cranial tract. More than 6.7 million cubic metres of forests were affected by the ludadar in the post-2015 period. The area of Gorenjska, Kočevska and Koroška, where spruce consists of the most powerful, is a worrying situation and the profession predicts even greater damage. Monoculture spruce are artificial works that are extremely unstable. In the past, spruce forests, with their self-preservation mechanisms, have still resisted the calamities, which are causing damage in the forest and, unfortunately, have not been able to do so in recent times. The cause of damage in Slovenian forests is therefore in extreme climate conditions, which most affect the forests of spruce and non-automatic growth sites. Directly as a result are the glands, winds, snowfalls, floods, reptiles and so on, which has also been happening in Slovenia and Europe in recent years. Indirectly, higher summer temperatures and temperature extremities create favourable conditions for the development of sub-dwellers, which cause drought-depleted spruce on non-automatic growth sites to literally massively destroy. Subwayers have multiplied to a large extent as a result of mass agglomerations and surface windfalls over the past few years, thus causally linked to all the extraordinary events in the forest. The proposed law is limited only to the elimination of damage in the forests resulting from the proliferation of the population of subscribers. We could also consider whether an approach to a system law would be needed to cover all unforeseen extraordinary events in Slovenian forests, including windshields, snowshoes, acorns [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Predrag Baković will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u122	President, thank you for your word. Each year’s captures and natural disasters, which cause great damage, do not, of course, spare the forests. In recent years, we have witnessed weather events that have severely damaged our forests. The glands, the winds, the reptiles cause our forests damage. Because of the damage to the trees, it cannot be removed and cleaned immediately, there is also an appearance and restocking of the basement, which as a result also endangers our healthy areas of forests, which have not suffered the consequences of natural and other disasters. Sanitary cuttings have become annual work in our forests and unfortunately sanitation cuts from year to year more. They must be done quickly and thoroughly, but the owners and operators of these works face many obstacles, such as unreachable terrain, large areas, lack of proper equipment or lack of sanitation providers. Certainly, owners and contractors are not guilty of not being able to perform works within the time limit set and foreseen in certain cases; therefore, at the Ministry, which is also responsible for forestry, they have drawn up a legislative proposal providing for solutions to be made towards ensuring timely and effective implementation of sanitary sections. In their view, the solutions can be seen in the fact that forest owners who cannot carry out sanitary cuts within the time limit laid down could apply to the institution for an extension of the period for the execution of the protective works referred to in the decision, provided that there are objective reasons for doing so; however, this would only be permissible for the purpose of remedying the consequences of the damage caused by the restocking of the basements. The Group of Social Democrats supports this solution, which will allow individuals who, for such or other objective reasons, have been unable to remedy damage in a particular time zone in order to be able to safely and qualitatively repair damage to forest areas caused by this overcrowding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Gregor Židan will present the position of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. The distinguished representative of the Government, honourable Members and honourable Members! Slovenia is known as one of the most forested countries in Europe, but we cannot boast as a caring master of these forests. I think we could do a lot more to preserve this forest. In recent years, natural captures have caused much damage in Slovenian forests. The consequences of the acorn in 2014 were 20 times higher than the consequences of the 1980 acorn, which has long been considered the largest catch in Slovenia. It was also the windshield in 2017 twice the size of all windshields in recent decades. The same is true of the consequences of overcrowding. This extent of affected forests in Slovenia has not been recorded in the last 100 years. And when we talk about the exceptional dimensions of the consequences of the natural disasters in the forests we have witnessed in recent years, we must be aware, above all, that this extreme damage is also felt by forest owners who, due to the consequences of the natural damage on such areas, will not have a return and, as a result, income from these areas for at least the next 30 years. The damaged forest must also be restored, which also means decades of investment in the forest for the owners. The most effective measure to suppress and prevent the spread of the population of the tents is the time-consuming slaughter and production of the archduke. With a view to more effective implementation of forest protection measures in the event of natural disasters, the Act on additional measures to address the effects of damage caused by the overcrowding of the population of subscribers was adopted in 2018. However, the proposed amendments to this bill propose further improvements. The main objectives of the proposed improvements are to ensure the timely and effective implementation of sanitary sections and preventive protective works following natural disasters in forests and to shorten the process of adopting changes and complementing the forest management plan in the event of a natural disaster in the forest. We are aware of the importance of more effective implementation of protection measures in Slovenian forests in the modern centre Party Group. Therefore, the amendments and additions introduced by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Additional Measures to Eliminate the Damage resulting from the Renumeration of the Population of Beneficiaries will be supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u126	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Since the end of the year 2015, the attack was one of the worst. As a result of damage from paddies or harmful insects, 1,33 million were selected last year and 1,34 million cubic metres of wood was cut, mostly spruce, as the injuries were mainly due to the restocking of the eight - tailed spruce lobulator. According to 2018, the injuries have increased significantly, resulting from windbreaks in recent years. The regional forestry units Slovenj Gradec, Kočevje and Maribor had more damage due to the attack of the undergraduates in last year due to their undergraduate cuts than ever before, this is from the celery in 2015. Most of the cuts were from the Bled area unit. On the basis of these data, we can again ask about the effectiveness of the measures taken so far. The Act to be amended was adopted in spring 2018. The year after its adoption was one of the worst, as far as the damage to the underprivileged was concerned, by the fact that the law was not the only measure to be taken in the last five years. The forecasts of the Institute for Forests, which were prepared by the end of last year in connection with the attacks on the sub-martials, are unfavourable. Given the sweet winter we had, the damage this year is likely to be much more than predicted. We can hope that the adoption of the amendments to the law that we are considering today will help to reduce the damage caused in the forests by subscribers; but in the light of past experience, we dare say that the adoption of the law will not be significantly known to the court. The most affected tree is, of course, spruce. This is due to the fact that the spruce is not even indigenous in our lowlands, but it is there because in the past it has massed with spruce. And when we add to this the climate trends that we are witnessing and which will increase the frequency of windstorms and other extreme weather events, the atmosphere will continue to warm, the winter will be even more pleasant and so on, the spruce is doomed to collapse. Even now, it is a miracle that after five years of cranial waste, we still have spruce. But there's still a lot of new stuff going on with the spruce. In 2018 and 2019, SiDG’s state company, which had reforestation actions in the Spring Forest, has always been affluent with spruce in these actions. What is the purpose of such an afforestation, except perhaps at high altitudes, if we still have more than a million cubics of spruce destroyed each year because of the lobular, and yet predicts that the lobular devastation will not end soon. It probably won't end until the last spruce is destroyed. The ruling policy is still largely deaf to warnings of the catastrophic consequences of global warming for our planet. The result of this heating also appears in Slovenian forests, where according to the Institute for Forests, only between 2014 and 2019, more than EUR 382 million was damaged. Climate change is a fact. In addition to climate change mitigation measures, this is mainly a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, we also need to be more active in adapting to them. And in the woods, the first point to take into account the new reality in which we found ourselves is the unbridled burning of fossil fuels. And begin to adapt to climate change. Afforestation with spruce, where it is also affluent in the lowlands, is not one of these adaptations, but only a new food for the new generations of underlings. In Levi, we will support the proposal of the law, but in the hope that it will also benefit from it. At the same time, we point out that the increasing frequency of windshields, acorns, archbishops and other natural disasters is due to increasing climate change. If we do not immediately begin to adapt to them and with the planned reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, no change in the procedures for the adoption of forest management plans, no extension requirements in cases of objectively stated reasons and other amendments to the Additional Measures Act to address the effects of damage caused by the overcrowding of the population of subscribers will help us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u127	Thank you very much. As a last resort, Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u128	Your Honor! In Slovenia we have been actively engaged in the problem of overcrowding since 2014, when our forests have suffered severe damage to our phalanges. Later in 2017, the wind and other natural conditions, which are also partly due to climate change. If the first point of the lugadar was mainly in the interior and nomadic area, it was also significantly expanded in the region of Gorenje, in the area of Jelovice, Pokluka and Bohinj, as well as in Koroška. With increasing natural captures and the multiplication of forest pests, however, we still do not have an effective mechanism to ensure timely rehabilitation and protection of forests. The Institute for Forests as a public forestry service provides adequate measures to protect and rehabilitate all Slovenian forests, regardless of ownership. In doing so, it does not have adequate effective procedures or measures to achieve rapid recovery of damaged forests in forest owners. The proposed amendment provides for faster and more efficient implementation of the sanitary section and other protective measures to prevent the spread of duplicates after natural disasters in forests and to maintain and strengthen bioequivalence in forests. The proposal foresees that the forest owner may propose more realistic arms and cutting volumes in terms of the situation than he will subsequently identify on the ground. Therefore, there must be objective reasons, such as the finding that the damage to the trees is greater due to new damage and greater accessibility to the damaged forest due to adverse weather conditions, such as the increased amount of snow falling in winter time, the soaking of the soil due to heavy rainfall, the inability to obtain all the necessary consent to build forest trains and roads. The bill also reduces the process of changing forest management plans if the damage caused by overcrowding exceeds 25% of the possible cut. Simplification of procedures will allow faster adoption of changes and thus a faster limitation of damage due to the subsystem and the prevention of proliferation. In New Slovenia, however, we stress that the entire forest management system needs to be renovated and simplified. In the country we have 5 state institutions in the field of forestry, which perform with certain public powers: the Institute of Forests, Slovenian State Forests, the Forestry Institute of Slovenia, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia and the Forestry Inspectorate of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The situation is irrational, expensive, often ineffective. Forests are our natural wealth, our oil. And to that we must all act responsibly and economically. We will support the bill in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to move on to 10. AND 11. At the end of the day, this is on the second reading of the proposal for a law supplementing the law on State border control and the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the protection of public order and peace. The draft laws were tabled by the Government. At its 16th session, on 11 March 2020, the draft laws were addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. Since, after the discussion, the committee did not adopt the articles of the draft laws, the second consideration of both draft laws at the working body meeting was completed. I hereby give the text to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups on both proposals for laws will be carried out jointly. First of all, Mr Robert Polnar is given the floor to present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The new two laws, which were not passed at the meeting of the home working body, relate to stricter treatment or sanctioning of self-organised groups of citizens who are intended to protect the state border. The modern theoretical base of the concept of the State is contained in the definition of the country as a monopoly on the legitimate use of force. In modern countries, the right of the State and its authorities to use force is regulated by law. Repression is a legal possibility for the State and its authorities to use the means of coercion to maintain regulation and general order. This legal option cannot, under any circumstances, go into the hands of spontaneously organised groups of citizens. We supported the Desus Group in the future and will support the efforts of the competent ministries to prevent the organisation and functioning of paramilitary and para-police groups. Motivation for the self-defence of citizens against illegal migration is, in general, possible to define in a completely contradictory view of reality. Citizens report to the authorities that they do not understand the situation, that they have raised their hands from the more ambitious protection of the Slovenian southern and eastern borders and that they are satisfied with the current situation. Officials in power are, after this understanding, leaders in ignoring facts and in publishing optimistic forecasts without coverage. Reasonable optimism, though, does not disturb, but it must be measured. Anyway, it's on the palm of your hand that the government replaces reality with some kind of better, imaginary reality. If power can live in such a reality for at least some time, citizens cannot. Ignoring and denying reality is even more disturbing than living in it. It is possible to live in a bad reality if there is hope — when citizens see that the country is on the right track and is professionally managed. However, in the Slovenian case, it is not such a persistent refusal to deal seriously with illegal migration, destimulate and depress to the extent that it is necessary to organise itself and to show an inconceivable degree of aggression. So it was in Slovenia until the start of the new government on 13 March this year and until the outbreak. Will it be any later, especially after the epidemic, when it is expected that the usual migration routes will also be freed, we will see that. Functional democracy is never spontaneous, it is always controlled, it has certain frameworks and limitations. That's why the state has to react. The trend described above cannot be expected to dissipate from itself by ignoring it and not copying it. The current approach, which focused on denial and benevolence, has not produced any results. Citizens, as the organizers of self-protection units symbolize, will be aggressive to the extent to which the state will tolerate their aggression. To this day, the state threshold of tolerance has been unusually high. The point is that this threshold will have to be lowered in the future. In the Desus Group, we believe that it is the imperative of the State to monitor the functioning of self-organised groups and, above all, to sanction them. Slovenia is not in a state of war and is not militarily threatened. Its security is ensured through the implementation of security and defence tasks through the Police, the Slovenian Armed Forces and the Protection and Rescue Administration, with its professional and voluntary units. Members of the Desus Group will also support legislative additions in the future in a way that will enable decisive action against the challenging behaviour of individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The next position of the SDS Group will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! A lot of noise for nothing — could be said in these two laws, which have already ended their way already; but these two laws have exposed a problem that is very hot and that is still open. The fact is that the things concerning illegal migration are not calming; on the contrary, the short silence that the Turkish decision to end the aggression against Greece has brought. For in the aggression of the so-called refugees, read the illegal migrants organised by Turkey, even their police participated, and after all the available information also secret services, but this is a time limit. A break from a pandemic that has defended a lot of things and that must not give anyone a false impression that things have been resolved or that this problem is gone. This problem remains, remains in the Balkans, where there are currently about 100 and 120 thousand illegal migrants. Many are imprisoned in quarantine, resisting it, some simply disappear and go on a journey. The fact is that Slovenia is extremely exposed here repeatedly because the previous government simply did not want to change the legislation nor did it want to take those measures that would give a very clear signal to illegal migrants that they are undesirable here. Very little should have been done, but that wasn't meant to be. It would be necessary to amend legislation, as previously proposed by Minister Györkös, that those who come from a safe country cannot apply for asylum or that such a request is null and void. This would solve the vast majority of the problems, and then things would have to be settled with regard to family reunification and everything else that all neighbouring countries have already settled; Slovenia is unfortunately still waiting. The fact is, he's been manipulating numbers the last week. If we compare the first three months of last year and this year, we can see that, overall, the increase in the number of illegal migrants was approximately 6.5% higher in this year's record year last year. It is said that things have worsened further, but they have been arranged slightly differently. Since it was very warm in January and February, there were several illegal migrants at the time, then in March it pressed the cold and there were a few fewer. But as it is said, during the first three months, in the first quarter of this year, we recorded an additional increase in illegal migrants of 6.5% to a record year already. This means that everything needs to be done, not only because of illegal migration itself, but also because it's something that's going on. It should be borne in mind that Slovenia is at the threshold of the economic crisis, just as the whole of Europe, because of the measures necessary to stop the pandemic. This means that, if ever, Slovenia is so much more committed to taking care of its citizens and citizens first, and that it cannot accept an unlimited number of illegal migrants, to whom Slovenia has become not only transitive but also a target country. This is significantly different than it has been in the last few years. Who today compares those numbers from 2015 and 2016 to those we are witnessing to today, whether knowingly lies and manipulates or simply does not know what he is talking about. Since then Slovenia was a purely transitive country, at that time each of those who stepped on Slovenian soil had one goal – to continue their journey north to one of the target countries as soon as possible. Today, this is to a large extent impossible. There, legislation has been tightened, in some countries, for example, in neighbouring Austria and Hungary, it is virtually impossible to apply for asylum. It is not possible to lodge it at all because they have simply closed these places or placed such conditions that illegal migrants are no longer able to meet them in any way. The same is true of Italy. There is a slightly different situation because of the pandemic and therefore Slovenia is so much more at impact. All of this means that everything must be done in the short term to prevent the flow of illegal migrants by whom, believe me, he will splash across the border from all sides – this is true for all borders, not just for the south – including the coronavirus, which means, of course, that if the border is not properly closed, all the other measures will not bring those objectives. It also means a great deal of denial for the people themselves. People have great recognition for all that they have helped to make Slovenia one of the best in the world, as far as the control of the pandemic is concerned. On the other hand, not only the burden on people, but also the financial burden, every illegal migrant costs a thousand EUR 963 per month. On the other hand, it is a burden of the health system, which is also burdened by migrants with their diseases, it is a burden on all other systems; and this, of course, poses Slovenia an extremely big challenge. It would therefore be so much more necessary to accept what the President of the State of Borut Pahor has now stressed that the military is at least authorised, the military is already at the border, but without the authority it currently has the status of tourists, after which it is a unique case in this part of Europe. All other countries – Italy, Austria, Hungary, Bulgaria, not to mention them – are also using all the powers to protect their borders in this part of Europe. In Slovenia, even some of the powers deriving from Article 37a are waived to the military, and it is not the military's use of units, as many misinterprets, but only police powers. Today the situation is absurd, it wants to make order and ensure security, and the soldier can't even stop someone who's literally waving in front of his nose. Even if he does something very ugly and illegal, he must not act; only the police can act. This is an absurd theater that requires the responsibility of all those involved. But as for the laws that have now ended the way, the question is. There's a lot going on here. One is the organisation, as some have said, of paramilitary units, which was not the case in this case, it was mainly a political performance; on the other hand, it was a fully legitimate goal, which is not only legitimate but also legal, but hardly known about it in Slovenia. This is a right to self-defense. The right to self-defence is a fundamental human right and is inalienable. We also witnessed one girl being attacked by stones in the Illyrian Bistrist area, we witnessed the murder of a police officer, we witnessed the worst forms of violence, we witnessed multiple rapes, and so on and so forth. If the state does not take care of human security, then people have every right to take care of their own safety. This is based on all fundamental instruments, from human rights to instruments governing interstate law. And as far as that is concerned, Slovenia is no exception here. It is therefore necessary to do everything possible to ensure full security by the State. Where it is a part that requires not only a simple majority but a two-thirds majority, it is not only the responsibility of the coalition, it is not only the responsibility of the government; it is also the responsibility of the opposition. Security is one and indivisible, but here is the point where we should step together and step across individual political objectives, prove statehood and confirm the proposal made by the President of the State to give the military the appropriate powers and to ensure as much security as possible for all within the framework of the options now provided. And then you get to do things like that. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. You're out of time. Mr Igor Peček will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! If we come from the concept of national security as defined by the Constitution, then we simply cannot go beyond the fact that its concept is basically bound solely and solely by state authority. Sovereignty is a key, highest and most powerful property of the state authority, both externally, in relation to the international community, as well as in relation to the internal one, when the state has monopolistic power over the means and forms of coercion. The proposal of both laws, proposed by the Government of Marjana Sarca, was intended to supplement the current Law on the Control of State Borders and the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace in a way that would prohibit and sanction an individual or a group of people wearing masks, uniforms or uniforms of similar clothing and the use of decorative weapons, the imitation of weapons that appear to be similar to weapons, carrying out tasks that are under the exclusive competence of official or military personnel of the Republic of Slovenia. The protection of the state border and the protection of public order and peace is under the exclusive competence of the Slovenian security authorities. For the professional performance of tasks, individuals shall be adequately educated, trained and refined, thereby acquiring all the necessary knowledge that is essential for the performance of demanding official tasks. It is also crucial that the security authorities ensure in their work the protection and respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for human personality and dignity. Any other actions by groups that wish to carry out tasks that are solely within the competence of national security authorities, rather than ensuring security and peace for citizens, constitute a destabilisation of peace and a sense of security. However, with no respect for formal legislation, forms of extremism and violence begin to take place as soon as possible. In cases of such behaviour, resistance and violence may also occur in those treated in such a way, which is, of course, a result of fear and a sense of powerlessness; the consequences may be fatal for both parties. However, good cooperation with the public and the general public is essential for the successful work of the official security authorities. The provision of information on offences or criminal offences to security authorities facilitates their work and the execution of sanctions against criminal or criminal offences must be solely within their jurisdiction. We certainly believe that the police have all the necessary qualifications, experience and knowledge to be able to implement measures based on sectoral legislation. At the same time, this also means that, when the relevant decision is taken, this control may also be increased by the cooperation of an army, one of the three subsystems, in addition to the intelligence and internal security system, which consists of a single and comprehensive national security system. And it is only within this that we must and must carry out activities at our borders. Since you have rejected the content of the two amendment laws on the committee by coalition colleagues and colleagues, we can rightly worry that the so-called guards or paramilitary structures will take the border protection into their own hands in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group will be presented by Mr Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u136	Madam President, thank you for your word. Almost six months after the introduction of the proposed amendments to the Law on State Border Control and the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, we have somehow completed the legislative process in such a way that nothing has actually changed. In the general debate, we have already warned the Social Democrats that during the month of September of last year, the border area saw the operation of the guard, its members held back in the area and, as they themselves said, trained and also helped to control the state border. The parade of masked men dressed in military uniform, covered in faces and with weapons in their hands or with so-called replicas, among the inhabitants of the area, according to our belief, and even after the statements we received from the inhabitants, justified the excitement and also the fear. The inhabitants of this area know exactly who is the one who, by law, can protect the state border, so it is the police, and they work well with it. The inhabitants also know the participating members of the Slovenian Army, who help the police and the population with their presence. The two proposed novels were therefore prepared and put into the legislative procedure with a view to preventing individuals or groups from carrying out State border controls in a manner that is identical to or similar to police tasks in the exercise of State border control or even obstructing police work in the exercise of State border control. It should be noted that such behaviours by guards and similar groups pose a serious threat to public security. Their statements that the police at the state border are not in control of the situation because they cannot, also show that it is an attempt to discredit a state authority that otherwise has a monopoly on the exercise of coercion. When such a monopoly is gone, we can quickly come into a state we knew in the 1930 ’ s that caused the greatest human disaster. If at this border illegal crossings were increased to such an extent that the police, with the help of the Slovenian Armed Forces or Slovenian soldiers, would no longer be able to control the flow of illegal crossings, we have an instrument to control this flow. The National Assembly may, on a proposal from the Government, activate Article 37a of the Defence Act and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces may obtain exceptional powers for a limited period of time, of course for a maximum of three months, with the possibility of extension. And since we have recently discussed this issue, let me draw attention to such a measure, which was adopted at the end of 2015, when a half-million-dollar refugee wave took place against Europe through the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, we were talking about thousands to 5,000 refugees per day. The police now manage the situation at the border and do their job well. This is recognised by the professional public as well as by foreign countries. And not only the police, but also members of the Slovenian Army, despite their lack of police authority. At the end of the day, I would like to highlight a recent survey on trust in the institution. Despite the high confidence of the people and people of Slovenia in the Slovenian police and the Slovenian army, both bodies in the composition of individual competent ministries have been facing a decline in the interest of young people in the profession of police, police officers of the state border and Slovenian soldiers for many years. For this reason, the Social Democrats are committed to rewinding the laws and regulations governing the recruitment of the Slovenian police and the military and the area of the auxiliary police. With appropriate corrections, it can help the police more quickly in decommissioning and, of course, by involving more people in the police force, in the military and in the type of auxiliary police, or also among the Slovenian Armed Forces' reserves. And let me finish. We regret that these two novels have not been adopted and today we only know that the legislative process is over. Regrettably, residents of the border areas in particular will continue to receive exciting events in the future when various formations of masked people, dressed in military uniforms, with their faces covered and weapons in their hands, walk under their windows or windows of their homes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The position of the SMC Group will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The former government has also, with our support to the National Assembly, submitted a proposal for a new law on the control of state borders and the law on the protection of public order and peace, which would provide a legal basis or allow for the prosecution or restriction of the operation of so-called guards and village guards. The Government has based its proposal on the assessment that the conduct of trusts and certain other groups such as self-proclaimed village guards in border areas pose security risks to the State, as individuals could in fact be combined under the pretext of self-organising security with the aim of carrying out the defence and security tasks of the State and protecting the state border, which is, of course, the exclusive competence of the State authorities. In the SMC, we supported both draft laws on the parent body in the so-called first reading and in the second. In the SMC, we agree with the prohibition on the conduct of an individual or group which, with a view to the control of the State branch, is carried out in a manner similar to or similar to the police tasks intended to carry out such control. We are also convinced that it is necessary to sanction groups or their members wearing masks, uniforms or clothing similar to official or military personnel' uniforms, and to imitate weapons to make them appear to carry out the task of officials or military personnel. We are still convinced that the legislation in force does not allow for the prosecution of these socially deviating behaviours and that the Penal Code, which condemned the leader of the so-called Styria Guards, does not allow the sanctioning or prosecution of members of these groups. In the SMC, we see guards and so-called village guards as extremist groups spreading extremist ideas, undermining the constitutional order, as members of the security and defence authorities take the Legimity as the only legitimate guardian of the country and challenge the country's right to be the only one with a monopoly over the use of force, to ensure the security of the state, its inhabitants and its borders. Although Slovenia is a safe country, a modern and orderly democracy, in the SMC we note that such an investigative commission or the National Assembly, as well as the previous government, have found that there are no adequate legal grounds in the Slovenian legal order to act against the activities of such paramilitary and para-police groups. Foreignly, for example, in countries where in the past they have met with worse forms of extremism that spread the ideology of racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism and so on, the state can act as a ban on such groups or organisations and their activities can also be controlled by intelligence services. Members from political parties associated with extremist organisations are prosecuted and could also list. In our case, we are only talking about changes in criminal law. In the SMC, we regret that the draft laws have not received sufficient support for the continuation of the legislative procedure or for adoption. Even more so, we find it inappropriate to tell some that it is necessary, or merely political will, to assess the illegal persecution of such social defiance, or the right political option, which will ensure security or public order and peace and proper control at the state border. According to our assessment, the police have already proven that they are able to control borders, that they know exactly what sections of the border are coming to illegal crossings, and that they also cooperate sufficiently with the local population, which respects the role and authority of the Slovenian police. In the SMC, we commend the police for the work they have done, and we believe that it is in line with the security challenges we are currently facing. In addition, Slovenian police are modern police, which protects the democratic structure of society and is also committed to protecting human rights and freedoms, so we understand that, like us, they refuse to cooperate with members of so-called guards and village guards. In the SMC, we have zero tolerance for individuals and groups who want to take over the tasks of the state. We also estimate that it is not possible to seek among them candidates who could complete the types of auxiliary police officers or the contract reserve of the Slovenian Armed Forces. If you support and promote extremist ideas and act in contravention of constitutional order, promote hatred or anti-democraticism, and spread intolerance, you cannot stop the security check carried out by the police prior to the conclusion of the treaty. In the SMC, we can only hope that the decision of the National Assembly not to support both proposals will not contribute to the re-establishment of these extremists after the end of this epidemic. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Ms Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! We have two laws before us that are supposed to apply to the provision of a basis for prosecution and the sanctioning of paramilitary groups, self-indulgenced guards. This is a proposal adopted by the previous government and a proposal that does not actually solve anything. For all the legal bases already exist. If it were the will of the law enforcement authorities to prevent parading guards along the border and if it were willing to punish people for hunting, it would have already happened. As a result, a slightly wider picture of the event should be presented to the public. It will only make it easier to understand why the former government did not have any intention of persecuting the guards, but rather accepted the novels under consideration today, which do not have anything but a short-term pear effect, which was probably the only goal of the then government. So let me remember, it all started in autumn 2018 when social networks rounded up photographs of an armed group that was supposed to be trained in the Styrian forests. At that time, the group was called a voluntary group of free people of the Land of Styria, with the short name Styria Guard. Back then, the guard was specialized in the defense of the Styrian country. The public was appalled, and the police acted immediately. In order to protect the violent change of the constitutional regime, the warlord Andrej Šiško and the executive board member of SDS Matej Lesjak were convicted. As the media attention directed to the guards shriveled a little, the self-declining guards were overqualified. Their specialty has become border control and literally refugee hunting. Although they parade at the border dressed in uniforms armed with gun imitations and publicly proclaim that they carry out exactly the same tasks as the police and the military, no one acted. And here we come up with a heart problem that isn't in an unexistent legal framework, but in politics. All violent fascist groups have a common denominator — a close link to the political right. When the government of Janez Janša was the largest protest in Ljubljana in 2012, a small group of right-wing extremists provoked the launching of the entire repressive police apparatus. While the repressive apparatus over the crowd of protestors, who did absolutely nothing wrong, got rid of the tear gas, the pen, and finally even the water cannon, that group of right-wing extremists, of course, did not happen. It was the same in Maribor. Later, in 2013 she was even an investigator in the National Assembly on extremist groups in Slovenia. The Commission of Inquiry found that Owl was concealing data on the existence of extremist groups and concrete links with a specific political party. And this is where we get to the point of the problem. The director of Sova was Damir Črnčec, and the connection was between the subjugation of SDS and the neo-Nazi group Blood and Honor. We have the same situation in case of a guard. We have a right-wing extremist group that walks through the woods at the border wearing uniforms, holds the imitation of a kalashnikov and publicly announces that people are being hunted. No one's taking action. The National Security Adviser to the Prime Minister, Marjan Šarc – Damir Črnčec, is the one who, as Director of the Sova, kept the data on the existence of right-wing extremist groups, at the same time, was the one who ordered changes to the legislation if we could not act otherwise. After all, the fact that we have two proposals on the table, which neither change anything nor bring any solutions, makes sense. It was a blind maneuver, a pirate move, a false public reconciliation to do something about it. This is also why we have not supported proposals in Levica. The fact is that self-proclaimed fascist guards would not be escorted to the prison where they belong. If it were willful, we could be there today, but nothing happens. Moreover, at the time of the epidemic, when individuals who dare to cross the municipal border are being punished, the guard organizes a camp to be held in early May. If action is so urgent for those crossing the municipal border that the police exercise mass control on the roads, no competent authority shall feel the need to act. This is not to be expected during the current power. The authorities, who – as we heard earlier from Commissioner Grims – believe that the objective of the guards is legal and legitimate. The right to self-defense. Unfortunately, the reality is that we are witnessing an increase in repression. And because of the epidemic there is a general ban on movement, the ban on crossing municipal borders, schools and kindergartens are closed. Under the pretext of action to prevent the epidemic, the government is clearly strengthening authoritarianism, introducing new police powers, new repressive and restrictive measures for the population. But obviously not for all; some, of course, of theirs, are allowed more at the time of the epidemic. When the government makes it possible to forge profits at the expense of the health crisis to its friends and acquaintances, while millions of public money in the public eye flows into the private pockets of the owners of suspicious companies, at a time when corruption and clientism are not illegal and perverted acts, but a business model, according to Minister Restovalska, is excellent business practice, it is difficult to expect that this government will pursue its guards. In the wake of the protests that have already been announced, which could enable Janez Janša to take such power out of his hands, the government will instead point to further strengthening of the police state, the additional powers of the military and ensuring the widest possible control of people. Once the market is full again, the government will most likely count on the assistance of the guard, as in 2012, an excuse will be needed to trigger the entire repressive apparatus against the protestors. Which is easier than organizing a provocation of a small right-wing extremist group. After all, we and the public are not as naive as you think. We're not naive enough to expect a crow to turn its eyes off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mr Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! This agenda item deals with the twin laws proposed by the previous government. To begin with, the NSI Group did not object at first reading to the conclusion that the law was suitable for further consideration. However, we did not support the proposals of both laws following the committee procedure, as we were of the opinion, as most members of the committee, that the law was flawed. If adopted, more questions would be asked than the law has a solution. In New Slovenia, we cannot agree with the position of the former government and the former minister that the emergence of so-called guards was the main reason for the police's difficult work at the southern border last year and the deterioration of the living conditions of our people at the southern border. This could be just an excuse to assume the responsibility of the state authorities to ensure the safety of our people at this border. We thank all Slovenian police officers and members who are and still carry out tasks in protecting the Slovenian southern border from illegal crossings in Novi Slovenija for their work. If we just look at the migration reports from 1. 1. 2019 to 31. Ten. 2019, we find that the number has increased by 71.8%, with the highest upward trend detected since July 2019. It was during this period that so-called guards began to appear. The number of illegal border crossings was significantly higher in last year than in the year before. Here we are talking mainly about migrants who have been held or treated by our law enforcement authorities; the question is how many of them have passed the territory of Slovenia without being detected by these statistics. Thus, we can rightly conclude that the pressure on our southern border was significantly higher last year. We probably all agree that the control of the state border cannot be a matter of private self-organization or the current inspiration of individuals. With the proposed laws, we have only increased the media attention they do not deserve, and we have not eliminated the problem of irregular migration and the pressure on our southern border. In order to protect our southern border and its citizens, who deserve security and normal life as all citizens of Slovenia, the then government should propose the activation of Article 37a of the Defence Act in the most critical months of last year, which would have been supported in New Slovenia, which was then in the opposition. If the government had done so, in our view there would have been no so-called guards on our southern border during that period. We do not solve the proposed legal solutions to the problem of illegal migration. The problem can only be solved by strengthening the work of trained authorities on our southern border and I certainly belong to the Slovenian Army. The protection of our people is certainly her mission. The country must effectively prevent illegal migration, not that the inhabitants of the White Land and the border municipalities are at our southern border afraid of what is happening. We must protect the southern Slovenian border and ensure the safety of citizens and citizens. Since our southern border is at the same time the Schengen border, the international consequences of that fact must also be highlighted. The lack of protection of our southern border has certain consequences. And one of the main consequences, which will continue to be established in the future, is border control with our northern neighbour, Republic of Austria. If we are to release internal borders within the European Union, we must adequately protect its external borders. In New Slovenia, we are committed and will also be in the future for such a policy towards internal security, which will provide all citizens with a high level of security and thus an adequate quality of life.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Ms Maša Kociper will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u144	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! To begin with, for those who may be watching us on TV, let me say that these two laws do not in any way address the issue of activation of Article 37a of the Defence Act, as some who today have addressed me in writing by email, perhaps even by any of you. On the contrary, today we are referring to two laws – the State Border Control Act and the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace – which both deal with the issue of so-called guards, or more specifically, the issue of the Styria Guard, which carried out certain activities at the southern border. Both laws were drawn up by the previous government and could have been adopted already because they had an appropriate majority if, at that time, the parties of the Left party did not prevent the processing of laws following a rapid procedure at the college. This is how we talk about these laws for the last time today, and we will not decide at all, since the law was not adopted as appropriate and also confirmed on the relevant committee of the National Assembly. The aim of both laws, where we represent only positions, is to regulate the material intended to ensure more effective protection of public order and peace and to enable the Slovenian police to effectively carry out their duties and conduct criminal proceedings. According to the proposaler, the former government, the government of Marjan Šarc, would help to improve respect for the rule of law and protect people's right to security. The so-called Styrian Guard has carried out or may still carry out activities with a clear and hidden purpose of controlling the state border. He wears the same clothes and covers as uniformed police officers, or at least the ones that resemble these clothes. They also use symbols such as the coat of arms and the flag. Such and similar units have in the past proved to be uncontrollable, and members of the various guards or guards can also be hostile and can pose a serious threat to the legal order. In the SAB Group, we have repeatedly warned that the protection of the state border is exclusively within the powers of the police, for which police officers are also adequately trained. The monopoly on repression and the use of coercion belongs to the country itself and exclusively to the democratic countries. Slovenia, in our view, remains a safe country and the police are doing well at the border, so we thank it in particular on this occasion. The various village guards, by interfering with the powers of the police, hinder her work and greatly disturb the general public, particularly the population in the area. The practice, however, has shown that Slovenian legislation is imperfect or problematic in the pursuit of such watchmen. Such acts become criminal only when a person has already committed an official act which is, otherwise, exclusively in the domain of an official or military person, but not when threatened or ordered by such an act. The consequences are that the District Attorney's Office rarely launched prosecutions on the basis of police notices. In such cases, however, the police have their hands tied in such a way, and residents at the southern border feel greatly threatened by the activities and activities of the village guards. The law, which will not be adopted, thus contains solutions which would clearly and unequivocally stipulate that any conduct of an individual or group which, with a view to controlling the state border, is prohibited in the same or similar exercise of the duties and powers of the police. The note also contains a proposal to prohibit the wearing, display or use of decorative weapons, imitations of weapons or other similar objects. However, as props performing at events, these items could continue to be used. For the existence of such an offence, a condition is added to the law that in carrying and using items that resemble weapons, the appearance of performing the duties of officials or military personnel is aroused. In the SAB Group, we do not support in any way the conduct which is contrary to the Constitution and the democratic order of the Republic of Slovenia, and this law, if it were before us now, would also be supported. Since the law first did not receive support for the quick procedure by the party Levica, and then was not adopted on the committee, such a decision will not be possible. It will also be clear that some former members of the coalition have welcomed the proposed solutions and efforts of the past government in the first place, and now they no longer show support for the novels under the government. In support of this law, both SMC Members and members of the Left did not vote on the home committee. So the novelty of the talk would bring more order and prevent the controversial practices of patrolling, masquerade clothes, and carrying an improper weapon — at least we hope that the wrong weapon — will afford the Styrian Guard. The fact that some – SDS, NSI, SMC, Desus and Levi – think that such practices are not controversial means that they themselves take responsibility for such actions and can potentially contribute to the challenge of Slovenian legal order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Victory Jelinčič will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Both marriages have not been supported, so we cannot vote on them, but we can give our opinion. First, let's talk about guards. The United Nations allows self-organization to ensure its own security, its own integrity, its own lives and its own acquisitions, or what people possess and possess. In this case, we cannot say that those who frighten the population are protected; the population is afraid of the disorganized state. That the law was not adopted was achieved by those who were against this law. The fact is that, on the one hand, migrants are allowed virtually everything and are prohibited by citizens. But the fact is, the guards are getting stronger. One more thing, the guards do not break the constitutional order, for the constitutional order can be replaced in a political way; and the guards have not tried to do so with any armed rebellion. Now for the State Border Control Act. It's a legal matter. Article 92, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that emergency measures and their removal shall be decided by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. The National Assembly has 90 Members, and the National Assembly has not voted on this matter, but it has been decided by the Home Working Committee. Decisions should therefore not be taken on the home working committee, where only one member participates. There are 19 members on this committee. It is said that 19 members have taken over the weight of 90 Members and have decided on their behalf what will happen to this law. Here a legal question is raised, who is now competent to decide on such matters, whether the Committee of the National Assembly or the National Assembly as a whole, as stated in Article 92 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It is said that this decision on the board is invalid, not true. The fact is, it will have to be decided by someone else in the coalition, on various commissions, on the Constitutional Law Commission, and I don't know where else. However, the fact is that the matter is clear, the Council of State decides; it is not a committee or a collection of 19 members, if any, but even less. The fact is that migrants are at risk of national security; in this case, there is no doubt that all members of the National Assembly should vote on the urgent measures. This did not happen, it was a partial decision of a small work, about 20% of the National Assembly, which we consider to be not drinking water and should be decided in a different way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u147	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure in both proposals is terminated. That concludes these two points. I hereby adjourn the 35th extraordinary session, which will be resumed by the vote at 2.20 p.m. Thank you. (The sitting was suspended at 2.04 p.m. and resumed at 2.20 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-04-29-SDZ8-Izredna-35.ana.u148	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue to adjourn the meeting of the assembly. I inform you that we will vote in accordance with the following order: 7, 6, 8, 9, 4 and 5. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 7th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the proposal for a law amending the Construction Law, within the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the second reading and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I'm informing you that I'm not informed that the bill would be uncoordinated. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Act on the Conditions of concession for the Exploitation of the Energy Potential of the Lower Sava, within the framework of the reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I'm informing you that I have not been informed that the bill would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. That concludes this point. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Water Amendments and Supplements, within the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the second reading and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I'm informing you that I'm not informed that the bill would be uncoordinated. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 75 votes against 4. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. That concludes this point. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Act, under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am not informed that the proposal would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. That concludes this point. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Wildlife and Hunting, within the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am not informed that the proposal would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. That concludes this point. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Additional Measures to Eliminate the Consequences of Reproducing the Population of Beneficiaries, within the framework of the reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am also not informed in this law that the proposal for a law is inconsistent. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 86 votes against none. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. Before I conclude this agenda item, I would like to ask your attention. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall meet at its 22nd meeting. 4. 2020 also agreed to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to address the proposals for decisions on the inadmissibility of the referendum on the three laws adopted yesterday. The treatment of these laws is currently taking place in the State Council. And if we are informed that the veto has not been voted, I will convene a meeting of the National Assembly in one hour after this announcement, that is, today. Thank you very much. I hereby conclude this item and the 35th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly. The meeting was closed on 29 April 2020 at 2.25 p.m.
