ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 20th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen! Before we begin today's program, allow me a few words. Today, in the National Assembly, we are aware of the international month of childhood cancer by wearing gold crumbs. The Pentlice were handed over to us by the 3rd floor Heroes, these are children and adolescents who are being treated in the Hemato-oncological Department of the Pediatric Clinic in Ljubljana. They are examples of courage and strength, so I ask that by wearing gold petals we show them all the support. Today is also the day when Slovenia woke up in yellow after a lot of sleepless nights. Last weekend the Slovenian anthem was heard several times, so I take this opportunity to congratulate all top Slovenian athletes and athletes for their outstanding success. Yesterday, historically, with the first and second cities, Tadej Pogačar and Primož Roglic crowned themselves on the French tour, so I suggest we give them a round of applause. [[Applause]] I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Matjaž Han until 12.30, Jože Tankko by 6 p.m., mag. Bojana Muršič, Vojko Starović, Franc Kramar, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Bojan Podkrodšek, Mihael Prevc and Felice Žiža from 17:00 on. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the State Council to the 5th, 14th and 17th items of the agenda, the representative of the Council of the Court of Justice to the 21st item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 20th regular meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 11 September 2020, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 20th regular meeting of the assembly has been set. We're moving to 21. PERIOD OF THE DAY – MANATIAN VOLUNTARY MATTERS. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposals for decisions on the election of judges of the Labour Court in Celje, the Labour Court in Koper, the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana for decisions in labour disputes, the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana for decisions in social disputes and the Labour Court in Maribor. Proposals for Decisions were submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I shall put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges of the Court of Justice in Celje. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I shall put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges of the Labour Court in Cyprus. We vote. 75 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I shall put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana to decide on working disputes. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of judges of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana to decide in social disputes. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of judges of the Labour Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. By doing so, I interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue on Tuesday, 29. 9. 2020. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I have received 44 written applications for questions sent to me within the deadline of business. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question and the President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question; Members and Members, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister; this shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that such a proposal needs to be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, but not on the procedural proposal being used for a substantive debate on the question raised. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, they apologized for today: Dr. Aleksandra Pivec, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Anže Logar, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Zdravko Pavlovalšek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mag. Andrej Vizjak, Minister of Environment and Space from 2.00 p.m. to 3.30 p.m. and Dr Simon Kustec Lipicer, Minister of Education, Science and Sport from 12.50 p.m. to 15.30 p.m. and from 19 p.m. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez (Ivan) Janša, and the question put first by Mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, Mr. Janez Janša! Restrictive and later anti-Korona measures, which have greatly affected our lives, coincide with the beginning of your government's operation. And we were also citizens under the impression of shocking images and images of patients and elderly people from homes for pensioners in Italy, Spain and France. In Slovenia too, under the impression of these events abroad, the government has taken a number of restrictive measures in the field of health. The clinics closed their doors, and contact with the doctor was possible only via telephone, and mostly via contact points where the patient data was mainly taken over by administrative staff. The supply of medicinal products to chronic patients was limited for one month. All preventive and control checks have been stopped. However, access to a doctor was practically possible under special conditions only for life-threatening, life-threatening conditions. Such a regime was in force for two months after summer holidays began, when people generally benefit from vacations. The COVID-19 epidemic thus caused quite a few problems. It has already postponed planned interventions, extended waiting types, prevented access to primary health care levels, resulting in secondary and tertiary treatments, i.e. diagnosis and treatment. Many injured and treated persons could not start rehabilitation or access their homes for pensioners after hospital treatment. Probation and rehabilitation have deteriorated due to delayed access to diagnosis. Treatment was significantly enhanced and, unfortunately, it was too late for some cases. Today, health homes and hospitals also face problems. The services on which they generate incomes were not to be carried out, but those on which they were to be carried out were significantly more expensive due to the need for additional safeguards. And nobody paid for that to the health department. Dear Prime Minister, I'm interested in: How will you reduce waiting types and ensure the availability and timeliness of care for all patients, not just covid patients?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u4	Thank you so much for asking. For the most part, what you've listed is true. The covida pandemic has caused, among other things, these consequences, which you have cited, is the stopping of many normal activities in health systems. This has also happened in countries that are significantly richer than us and have significantly more advanced health systems and more reserves. As with our health system, we probably all know, because we've been talking about this in this country for a long time and it's changing a little bit. The fact is that this situation in Slovenia took relatively little time compared to other European countries, because we were essentially able to declare the end of the epidemic among the first to bring things back to normal in health care. Of course, those few months have led to stagnation, extended waiting lines, and resulted in irreparable consequences where a particular disease has not been detected in time. And hand to heart, that's also the thing we're most afraid of in the weeks and months to come. This can happen to us again in the cold age of the virus if the measures that are in place throughout Europe and even in Slovenia are not taken into account consistently. The first victim will be a new healthcare activity that will have to shrink due to an increased need to treat patients with covid. All the rest of the activity, first preventive, then one that can be delayed for a while, and later things can start to unfold quite wildly as we can – fortunately not in us, but unfortunately in some other countries we can monitor in the spring. So we are in some serious situation when the debate on this subject is very welcome. However, it is not true that the government has not reacted financially at this time. The healthcare sector has been provided with an additional budget of more than € 210 million. In the rebalancing there are additional resources, as you have seen, and in the fifth anti-koronic package, which will come to your bench in the coming days, there will be or are proposed to legalise certain measures that will enable additional capacities in Slovenian health care to be engaged in order to prevent a repeat of the situation as we witnessed in the spring. Perhaps if we succeed and the second wave will not have such consequences, as regards the employment of capacity in Slovenian health care, to correct a matter again, it is said that waiting lines will also begin to decrease regardless of the impact of cods of the situation. We are preparing some serious measures to be taken in the debate in the coming days. This week the government will consider this package and send it forward. Coordination with some social partners is ongoing. So the situation you described, of course, we are aware of it. We'll do everything we can to make sure the situation doesn't happen again in the spring. But this is largely up to all of us. If we resist the spread of the virus or at least severely limit it, then this pressure will be manageable, otherwise it will not be manageable. Once again, I repeat that the consequences of the spring epidemic cannot be measured only in certain statistics or in the number of deaths, there are also side effects. You mentioned one of these. And let's do everything we can to avoid it for the next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u5	Comrade Reich, word for supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, I'm glad you're aware of the problems, but waiting types and inaccessibility are still a real problem. Strongly effective and accessible public health is also the priority of the client of SAB and we have always advocated that the patient should be given a service when he needs it. That is why we have also tabled a proposal in the legislative process of anti-korona packages to provide pensioners and vulnerable groups with three free laundry masks as long as they are prescribed by the State as mandatory. And the proposal was not adopted. At the time of adopting the balance of this budget, we have again tabled a proposal to ensure that by the end of the year this mask is provided. The proposal was valued at 1.7m euros, representing only 0.01% of the total record balance of the budget of 13.4 billion euros. Our proposal has not been re-adopted, and despite the fact that it is compulsory to visit a doctor wearing a mask. At the SAB, we have always advocated that there should be order in health care and that the money should follow the patient. That is why we also wanted EUR 50 million to be provided for the reduction of waiting lines. The proposal was not adopted again. I want to know: Why is it so arrogant to treat patients?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u7	Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u8	I have already said that it has gone from the budget so far to these needs of more than €210 million to prepare additional funds under the 5th anti-kron package and some other measures to reduce waiting lines in order to also engage reserves that have arisen in some insurance companies because a particular activity has not been carried out and has not been paid. This means that, according to my assessment, there will be enough problems elsewhere. The problem is organisation and the problem is capacity. If you don't have performers, then you can have a lot of money, and the patient won't come. So the problem is more complex than a mere lack of resources in many cases, and we refer to this problem. As it is said, the debate on the things you mentioned will be reopened in a few days and all these proposals can be reopened.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u9	Comrade Reich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u10	I am proposing a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the importance of this topic. We must be aware that health matters are serious, that people do not get services when they are expected and when they need them, despite the fact that we have a record government budget of over 4.2 billion euros and that the balance is more than 13 billion euros. We are talking about what the priorities of this government are, how to address these issues, and I propose that we address these issues together in a constructive debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 September, in the framework of the votes. The next question to the Prime Minister will be posed by the Victory of the Helinčič Noblenit.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u12	Thank you very much and very much for saying hello to everyone. In Slovenia, immigrants from the area of the former Yugoslavia are more than one day a day. They move quietly, some get documents with bribes, and a lot of them stay here in black. Interestingly, everyone now unites and joins those groups that have already come to Slovenia and, in fact, the left media say that those immigrants should receive minority rights. Talks are about minorities and, say, the representative of the Albanian society said: "The state should have a civilized attitude towards minorities." Then, from other societies, it is said that a minority issue needs to be addressed. I know that in the SD party, they started with this issue to essentially destroy Slovenian integrity and the Slovenian state by conferring minority rights on everyone who is able to do so. Given the fact that immigrants from other parts of Yugoslavia are about 200,000, and there are some 50,000 more coming in black, it's a terrible number because all these people are getting social transfers. It is interesting that they raise some 34 million euro of money in Kosovo annually from ATMs, which is transferred here from social transfers. I think that we should restrict these matters, especially because of what Slovenian language and Slovenian identity are disappearing. I received here a letter from a frightened mother from Slovenian Bistrica who wrote: “My three and a half years old daughter began talking to me in Albanian today after coming home from kindergarten.” What's gonna happen to that? Will we handle these matters and not let this happen? It's easy to register people on administrative units. A lawyer told me a day ago in Celje that a coerced Kosovo came to him with a list of ten roaches for which he demanded that all the papers be arranged so that they could stay here because of their association with the family. This person has a residence permit in Slovenia and works in Austria. In short, Slovenia has in this area constant damage, constant losses and the time limit for this matter to be settled once. Mr President of the Government, I would like to ask: What are you going to do to make administrative units aware of what one country is, where we are, and will start working for their own country?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u13	Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u14	Thank you so much for asking. One is the rules that are like that, and they're kind of hollow. This government or coalition has a planned reform of social transfers in the coalition contract and we are doing so. It's not exactly in the first few months for understandable reasons, it's just preparations are under way. Secondly, and I think it will be possible to deal with these things, including with a novelty of the law on foreigners, which partially touches this problem, to settle these gaps. As far as non-compliance with existing legislation is concerned, I think there is even a worse problem. I just can't understand how someone in an administrative unit who has data, how many people are staying at one address, can see that there's already a hundred of them, write down another barrage. I don't understand that. It's not everywhere. And it's not on most administrative units either, but some stand out, like Maribor. There were a lot of these cases. As early as last year, during the time of the previous government, the inspection took a look at this and found quite a breach. In some cases, however, I do not think it was consistent enough. For example, they checked the whereabouts of the children of those who had a place here, and it was questionable whether they actually lived here because these children were not on school lists. And that was hundreds of them. Of several hundred of these cases, only seven violations have been detected, if I have read the reminder correctly, which I think is extremely few. If a school kid doesn't go to school, he's usually not here. There may be exceptions for such and other reasons. But only 7% out of a few hundred can't be missing. In these administrative units, the competent ministry will have to carry out additional controls and determine why these regulations are being violated. If you can see that this is a residential building that has 150 square feet [150 sq m] of living space, there are 100 people registered there, then it's clear at first that you can't write a place there for another ten. But that's exactly what's been going on. There were no sanctions, and that's it. Here, control is absolutely necessary and will be carried out.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelinčič, do you request a supplement to your answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Well, this is what it says, Prime Minister, we can expect a change in these non-life rules, and I hope that this will be adopted as soon as possible. After all, it must be borne in mind that administrative units do not work as they should. I can tell you that on my own case. I have here a letter sent by the Management Unit of Ljubljana to my personal address. Some James Kosier is registered to Bleiweis 13, where, to tell you the truth, I'm the only one who lives. And that's what's been going on for a long time and a long time. If this happened in my case, you can be sure that in other cases there must be more. Not only is there a few ten registered on one address, a few hundred. If you go to Krško, you will see a few hundred people on the same address. And no one gets hurt. Inspections don't do their job, administrative units don't do their job. I think it's also necessary to clean everything up on these segments. If we don't get this thing settled, we're gonna lose more money. And the abuse of health cards is very common, because on one medical card comes treatment for ten people with the same last name, no one knows Slovenian, and those who should control it do nothing. If they require a translator, our country must pay the translator, which is essentially pointless if we compare it with other European countries. That's where they have to pay the translators themselves. Besides, I don't know why we have to follow the stupid rules of the European Union that impose inappropriate solutions on us because of our own swine.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, would you like to complete your response?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u18	Actually, I've answered that before. I would add that some of the records that have appeared in the media, how even a few thousand people have been reported on some of the addresses to hold it, but these are the addresses of student homes, for example. So it's not this problem you're exposing. In some places there are single homes, where there is also more housing, and they are not problematic. There are problems and there are too many cases where hundreds of people are reported to be at 100 or 200 square metres, where it is not only about the exploitation of the social network, but also about the exploitation of these people, because those owners of these premises charge it richly, cash, violate the law and usually also the tax rules. At times, this has not been done for a long time. What I said before is going to happen because it's not such a difficult task for an inspection. Much of this can already be found by comparing data and not every thing needs to be identified on the ground itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelinčič, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u20	I know this is a difficult matter to solve, but one day we're gonna have to deal with this and bite into this sour apple. After all, we have to take care of our own people, and we have not done so for our own country, and the government has not done so far. The governments so far have deliberately undermined the integrity of the Slovenian state. Now is the time for this to stop. You were talking about single homes. But it has to be said that in Krk, for example, they have purchased houses, registered inside 8 people, paid for by the commune, living inside 20, 30, 50 and more. And all of these also receive social assistance, work, who works, and mainly their relatives, who draw social contributions, are registered there. Interestingly, the Austrian newspaper Salzburger Nahrichten reported that thousands of Kosovs have arranged a bus line to transport from Kosovo to Austria only to be able to come and meet with Austrian officials to get illegal social assistance. What about us? Who knows if that doesn't happen with us. I'm sure you do. And how many pensions point to the Balkans, even though the pensioners have long died. There's a lot of irregularities like that. Therefore, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 146 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the National Assembly vote on this matter to open a debate in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 September 2020, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be asked by Lidija Divac Mirnik, Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greeting, Mr. President! Ministers, ministers, colleagues, colleagues! The number of Coronavirus infections is increasing. In particular, the number of hospitalised persons is increasing. Hospitals already point to the human resources crisis, both because of the healthcare workers who are leaving, and also due to quarantine and self-isolation. I think we are looking forward to a re-emergence of health care, in anticipation of the flu outside the door, and of other autumn-winter respiratory diseases. Don't get me wrong, Mr. President, of course it's right for public health to take care of patients with covido, but I'm interested in: How will the government provide medical care to the remaining patients — cancer patients, chronic diseases, emergency operations and checks, and everything else? After all, people pay for health insurance, but they don't get care. They don't get it. Every day, we can read desperate requests from parents on social networks and newspapers that do not come to doctors with their children. Do you ever put yourself in their shoes? You can imagine their hardship. I can give you a concrete example, but it's not the only one from UKC Maribor. And there's more. We all heard a desperate father pleading for a child. He's not the only one. Now, let's get the data from the ZZ. Slovenian hospitals are from January to July 2020, according to six months of implementation, rivers and writing, 30 000 800 acute hospital treatments, i.e. operations or interventions less than during the same period last year. Thirty thousand 800. And that. It's been almost four months since your completely missed flight of planes, when you bragged about overcoming the epidemic. This flight was completely wrong. The numbers are even worse today. And we looked at and saw that famous painting about the brave team that saved lives. Probably something else. What have you been doing in the government all this time, planning measures for the fall? It doesn't look like it. If you were as eager as you were then to solve things and as you now planned to buy weapons, perhaps planning to stabilize public health, you could still be trusted. That is why, Mr President, I ask you in this regard: First time. How, in particular, will you allow people to get to a doctor? How will you ensure that not all planned operations, specialist reviews, preventive programmes will be scrapped again? How do you prevent collateral damage to covid from becoming patients, including children, with other diseases, that they will not die because they cannot see a doctor because they call and do not receive a response? That's what I'm interested in. And that interests me, not just me, but everyone in this Slovenia. People are interested. So I specifically ask you, tell me. And a second time. How long have waiting periods, those above the permissible waiting period, been extended on average from the beginning of the epidemic to date, for the first specialist review and therapeutic and diagnostic services? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u23	Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u24	Look, I've probably been dealing with this problem more than half the time since that government swore, so I can answer without reading it. This problem can be seen in our integrity if we first ask ourselves if we know how long it takes to get a new doctor. We need six years of study and six years of specialization. If anyone in this room thinks it's possible to shorten it to four months, let me know how. He'll get all the Nobel prizes he can get. We were unable to create these personnel within the four months that were missing. It can't be imported, and that's the key problem. In fact, some 100 people have also left Slovenian health care during this time. Both doctors and nurses. Nevertheless, this problem also has an organisational dimension. And as far as that's concerned, we've done a lot. For the autumn period, a plan is being prepared for all health care institutions, which, for example, was not available in the spring. Now every hospital knows how to handle where the reserves are. But since there are no essential additional capacities, even hospitals cannot be built, especially in Slovenia, within four months, these reserves are relatively few. On Friday we had a long meeting with leading all Slovenian hospitals, where we renumbered the beds, the fan reserves that some of you so mocked, and now the dust is being removed from them again, and they are being dragged from the cellars, because if the trend is to be the same as now, we will have a situation later in October when the waiting species you are talking about will be renewed again because some other programs will have to stop. That's the one where it's not an immediate matter of life and death. Because of this, the risk of coronaryism or covid-19 disease is such a problem, not only because of its direct but also because of its indirect consequences. From this point of view, I think it is in our common interest to do everything we can to ensure that the capacity of the healthcare system is not exceeded. It is said that we encourage people to impose an application, not to encourage them to merge where it is dangerous, and not to play political games in a field where there is fuel. And there's a lot of polythene gas. So do not expect that in this situation we will now come before you with some numbers, where we will say, every month, and next month, we will cut down waiting lines for so much and so much, because this would sound very yellow, completely unseemly. We are in a situation where we try not to significantly prolong ourselves. How long did they last? Exactly for as long as the programmes were not implemented in individual activities. At least for so long. Because it also takes time to put things back together. Now we have more reserves, better organization, more protective and critical medical equipment than we had in the spring. But I don't think we have any additional medical teams, because it can't be created at this time. It is only for reserves that are formed in the same way as in spring. It is said that from less urgent programs, people are drawn to those who are more urgent.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u25	Colleague Divac Mirnik, request for a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Now, of course, there was no concrete answer, and I will not lose words about the application at all. Dear President of the Government, I must remind you that the latest report on the extension of waiting periods has been published on the NIJ website with a date, words and letters on 1 March 2020. Reports were previously published each month. Why aren't these reports online anymore? Or maybe here, I don't know what you're hiding? I wonder whether this is intentional or whether this is possible as a result of the new leadership of the Institute. What's so interesting is that you don't have to worry about this statistics anymore. When Prime Minister Marjan Sarec was here, you were worried sick every day. Today, when you run the government, you don't have to worry about that anymore. Therefore, I ask again for current information on waiting periods or their renewal due to covid. And secondly, how will you ensure that people will not, as the older people in Prlecia say, “beg the fence” because they do not receive health care? Of course, I said that in my briefs that my colleagues in the basement wouldn't start attacking me. You had six months to make a plan, and you didn't. I don't understand why not. But you sent planes across Slovenia to explain how successful you were. If you think the right path is to include 156 individuals who are registered according to the Medical Chamber on August 1st, and will solve these unacceptable long waiting lines, I believe with my modest medical knowledge that this is not the best solution. I am not saying that aid is not welcome, but it is definitely a slow privatisation of the health system and we should strengthen the public. And you're obviously doing something else. What's the result? In time, there will be an even greater outflow of doctors from the public system. So what do we do? We're going to split into first- and second-class? Are we going to split up into those who can pay and those who can't? I don't want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u27	Prime Minister, you can complete your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u28	Well, look, Your Honor, we're going to do exactly what you say we won't. Public health is a word that has been very abused in Slovenia for years or decades. The more talk is about how public health is supported, the more people working in public health are fleeing it. I can list specific cases where in recent years the entire programmes of individual Slovenian hospitals have collapsed because five doctors have resigned and went to work in Austria, where they earned three times more for less burdened workers. So we'll deal with this problem where it exists. Not in theory. Preparations and negotiations for the identification of service parts of the public sector from the administrative part of the payroll system and for the establishment of new conditions shall be launched shortly. I hope you will support this, because if we do not solve this problem, no matter how much money will be allocated theoretically, Slovenian health care will be even lower than it is now. That's a real problem. In addition to chaos, overpaid medical equipment sometimes, creating known problems, the key problem is that people are not. People are leaving because the European Union also means a common place where you can look for work and go where you are better paid. If you get three times your salary in a profession right across the border, a lot of people will go there. And the more successful someone is, the more educated he is, the more he knows, the more successful he is, the more they invite him. And we can do anything else if we do not resolve this issue, the problem will not be significantly reduced. So, yeah, we're gonna get to the problem where it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Comrade Divac Mirnik, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u30	Thank you. They probably are, or they're unlikely, there are definitely some things that you're absolutely not to blame for. But I'm afraid that in these six months, given what you've been saying, what kind of experts you have, and how you've mastered all this, but all the rest of us are complete morons, I've assumed that you'll be able to handle it easily in six months. What you've actually done is of interest to me. People don't come to doctors, programs fail, and people die. It's just a fact. Now your job right now is to let them get to the doctors. That's another fact, too. I really want the reality of your battle with a co-vide not to be those movies that we can watch and monitor every day. I really want people to get care, especially if they pay for it. I really don't want people to die because no one picks up phones. So your job is to solve this because you've been saying this all along, that you can solve this easily, and that you can stabilize public health because otherwise I don't know how to spell it out. I wouldn't want it, as I've already said, that our system is completely collapsing. And, of course, I wouldn't want what happened in March to happen to me to shut everything down. I don't want to. I don't think that's what you want. So even though you are planning, as you said, this administrative withdrawal from the pay system or withdrawal from the pay system, I would like you to specifically tell us: When are you going to do that, in what time? And to give us a clear and clear warning, or to give us information: When or how long have these waiting species increased? At the final stage, you replaced the director of the NIJZ or the director, Mr. Krek. Let him do it, because that's his job, that's what he's paid for. Please kindly warn him if he doesn't do it anymore. Of course, Mr President, I would suggest that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we discuss the Government's response at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly this Thursday in the framework of the vote. The next question will be asked by Comrade Yuri Lepo to the Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Members of Desus's and previous mandates make great efforts to correct the injustices of pensioners caused by the non-coordination of pensions during the economic and financial crisis. In view of the non-coordination or reduced regular coordination of pensions, pensioners were reduced by as much as 8.4%. At the moment, this reduction amounts to 5,6 %. However, we hope and expect that this meeting of the National Assembly will adopt our proposal for extraordinary reconciliation of pensions by 2% without a link to GDP growth. That leaves 3.6 deprivations to pensioners. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! At the time of signing the coalition contract, you said among other things about the priorities of our operation: "There are problems that concern the older generation in particular. This part concentrates on the most strategic challenges for Slovenia, which is also a social state. Many of these priorities are devoted to solving the problems of the generation most exposed." Currently, the government supports our proposal for a 2% extraordinary reconciliation of pensions, but we are interested in the height and dynamics of additional reconciliation of pensions and thus the comprehensive elimination of the deprivation from the past years. In order to improve the situation of pensioners, hopes are influenced by specific commitments in a coalition treaty in which there is considerable attention to the areas of pensioners. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! It's been six months since the government performed. During this time, we successfully fought the Coronavirus epidemic and mitigated its consequences. Despite the difficult times, much has been done for the pensioners at that time. I want to know: By what measures has the current government already helped pensioners? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u34	Thank you for asking. First, let me say that this government does not view pensions as a social category, but as a payment for past work, it is called an economic category. It is aware, therefore, that we have also written this in the coalition contract that there are things here that are not in line, I will say, general social justice. It is said that there is a large part of the pension generation that is disadvantaged, which does not receive as much as possible in the context of the overall macroeconomic situation and as individuals have earned. But it is true that this problem did not arise, at least not overnight, and that it cannot be resolved in such a way. Your proposal also provides for the resolution of this backlog in steps. And I think we can do this. When can the next major step be taken? If they sustain the economic forecasts, as they were given at the time when we were also preparing the last budget rebalancing, then the second year will grow and we will be able to take a bigger step. How much we can do this year at the end of the year with regular coordination will be seen when we have this situation ahead of us. It is true, as you yourself have pointed out, that despite a macroeconomicly difficult situation, when we record a virtually 8% drop in gross domestic product, during this time the crown virus is being tackled by the pensioner or the most vulnerable part of the pension population has not been deprived. It was the payment of the solidarity allowance and during that time a free ticket was also introduced and some payments were made a month earlier. So we made sure that there was no additional burden and additional sacrifice here. Surely, what is enshrined in the coalition treaty is a goal for us. In the event that the situation is partly repeated in the autumn, as we had it in the spring, when additional solidarity is needed, this will also be paid to the pensioners at the level that we will be able to manage. However, we hope that this will not be necessary in order to be able to move on to normal coordination and to put an end to this backlog as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Comrade Yuri Pretty, you're requesting a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u36	Thanks for the answer. I just want to know one more thing. Among all the laws drawn up by the government, the law on long-term care is one of those not only pensioners but, in fact, we all look forward to. In this connection also legislation on the demographic fund. That's why I want to know: How far is the government’s preparation of these laws, or what is the timetable that you have formed in the government? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u37	Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u38	As far as the law on long-term care is concerned, this debate is still under way. As far as the law on the demographic fund is concerned, it is closed in the first phase. This week, the government will consider the law for coordination with the social partners, according to the Economic and Social Council, the Alliance of Retired Associations and the Youth Council. Then we'll make any adjustments, and we'll also coalitionly harmonise them, if necessary, and then the law will be on your benches. It sounds relatively soon. This law is important from the point of view of the topic you have opened, we are talking about the National Demographic Fund Act. It will provide an additional stabilisation anchor in the pension system, and in the long term, because it is envisaged that the funds will nominate. The fund will not land, but it will grow, and the resources available will grow ever more. At the same time, this part of the funds will also be used to improve the situation of the pension fund or pensioners, practically speaking. From the point of view of some general justice, it would probably be very unfair to say that the fund will only be rich for the next 30 years, and then we will start using it, because it would mean that the generation that created this property has nothing to do with it. In addition, it is envisaged that part of the funds will also be used to build a home for the elderly. I believe that we will be successful in this and that this problem will be no more in 20 years. So we're gonna save him by then. We need funds now that the problem is the most pressing, not the next 20 years. When it comes to long-term care, this is also, I will say, an extremely important measure that will have a significant impact on the well-being of the older generation, especially pensioners. I believe that within a good month we will conclude this debate and send the law into procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 18th and 19th meetings of the National Assembly. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Anže Logar, should answer Jože Lenart's question about the role and activities of the Republic of Slovenia during the 100th anniversary of the Koroška plebiscite, but is absent today. I ask the Member whether he insists on an oral response or whether he wants a written reply from the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Personally, I'm kind of disappointed. In June this question was raised and the Minister was absent, also in July. Today at the September session again. In view of the important issue, hundreds of years ago, 10% of Slovenians decided to live in another economy, Austria, instead of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, there were 80,000. Today there are only 13 000 more Slovenians in Austria's Koroška, that is to say less than 20%. Plebiscite. This event is going to be 10. 10th in Celovac. Of course, at the time I received a partial reply from the Slovenian Minister in place of Mrs Helena Jaklitsch, but this reply was limited to their ministry. I, our parliamentary group and, of course, our Croat Slovenians want to hear clearly what the activities of Slovenian diplomacy in this regard are. That's why I want this answer to come before the 10th. Ten. I think the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has this answer ready and would like to come to the National Assembly as soon as possible to receive this reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Lenart, I will also call on the Ministry to respond as soon as possible. Minister for Environment and Space Mag. Andrej Vizjak will first answer the questions of Primož Siter regarding the reduction of the pollution of the Central Soča Valley due to the co-incineration of waste at the Cementa Salonit Anhovo.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member! With regard to the decisions adopted in Parliament relating to the establishment of a working group to examine options. It was a kind of joint, and I'd go straight for it. The first decision referred to the recommendation not to allow an increase in the amount of co-incineration of waste. I must say that this is a matter of administrative procedure led by the Slovenian Environment Agency, not by a political decision or by a government or by a minister, so this procedure is in accordance with the rules. At present, no decision has been taken on this subject. Decisions two and four refer to the establishment of a working group which has been established and has also started to operate. Some of the work of this working group has also been hampered by the situation related to the epidemic and the relevant recommendations of the National Institute for Public Health since the non-meeting of spring of this year. Well, this working group has started to work and some conclusions have already been adopted. However, I am afraid that in the six months that the deadline has been set, this working group will not finish its work because of the volume of work. The working group continued its work in two sub-groups. The first subgroup will address emissions and environmental impacts from a technical and technological point of view. The second will address the link between incineration emissions or the effects of co-incineration on the state of the environment from a health point of view. Of course, experts working in these groups are also well adapted. Decision No 3 was on the regulatory regulation of the area of operational monitoring. A comparative analysis was carried out by the PIC NGO Legal Information Centre, which is also available on the websites. The practice of implementing this monitoring in Europe is different, but all of this imposes an obligation on the operator of the device. This is done somewhere by accredited or authorised operators and by the operator somewhere. It is crucial that the conditions for operational monitoring are laid down in national regulations and conclusions on the best possible technologies or best available technologies. That seems to be the key. These standards provide for continuous or online monitoring or occasional monitoring, and it is crucial that these monitoring is carried out online monitoring, meaning that there is no speculation that emissions are large at certain times and then not in certain times. The Environmental Protection Act, which has already been sent to Parliament, also stipulates in other regulations that the operator must use and require BAT technology in the implementation of these measurements. Then there is Decision No 5 on the increase of the concession for the use of mineral raw materials. I must say that this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Directorate of Energy. Decision No 6 referred to the preparation of a comprehensive waste management strategy. I must say that the national environmental protection programme adopted by this Parliament also defines waste management and is more precisely defined in the waste management programme and the waste prevention programme. This year we will be preparing an amendment to this programme, so that it is legally relatively covered. Otherwise, the proposed Environmental Protection Act, which is already in Parliament, will introduce this so-called producer's extended responsibility, where we must also take over the European Union Directive by 2023. Then there is the revision of the environmental permit for Salonit Anhovo. There's an ongoing procedure here, too. In conclusion, the Ministry of the Environment appointed an Inter-Resort Working Group to examine the possibility of equating standards for co-incineration plants and incineration plants. Even though we have started work, I do not expect this to be over within 6 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u43	Comrade Siter, are you requesting a follow-up?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u44	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The decision that the locals in Anhove are most aware of is that of the establishment of an interdepartmental working group, which I now paraphrase the conclusion that, in cooperation with health and environmental protection, the professional company Salonit Anhovo, the local community and representatives of the civil initiatives of the region of Gora, should consider the possibility of aligning the standards of permitted co-incineration emissions with those applicable to waste incineration plants. This was accepted by the two committees to give instructions to the National Assembly to the Government. And here's the problem, no matter what happened at the time. The problem is that the composition of this Interdepartmental Group does not reflect the very purpose of the Committee's decision. It did not, above all, identify environmental experts as problematic, although this was explicitly stated both in the debate and in the decision. Still not satisfied with that. Secondly, the working group is expected to prepare measures for the purpose of environmental recovery. Of the 18 members of the working group there are two representatives of the medical profession. There are no environmental experts in it, except officials from the ILO and Ars. And thirdly, at such a pace things will not go anywhere, they will not come to the desired goals, which must not be business, but the health of the Sokka Valley and its inhabitants. So my question is: Why was the professional public and representatives of the local environment not included in this working group despite the assurances? In what way will the competent ministries ensure that these people will be there and until when?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u45	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u46	On 4 May this year, I signed with my colleague Tomaž Gantar, Minister of Health, the decision to set up a working group and the composition does not reflect your claims. In addition to the heads of the Directorate for Environment and Space, experts are also appointed at this Directorate and a number of experts from the Faculty of Engineering, Chemical Technology and Local Environmental Associations, namely Bozidar Rustija, EKO Anhovo and Dolina Soče, Society for Nature and Environment, member, Miha Stegel, Civil Initiative Today, member, and Tina Gerbec, Municipality of Kanal ob Soči, member. Your statement that there are no experts in the field of various costs, as well as local initiatives, is simply not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u47	Comrade Siter, you have the floor for procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Look, the main problem Anhovo has is that it's like this and that this story has been going on for 100 years. Minister, I come alone from the Rippers. If anyone knows what can come from this story with co-incinerators, dangerous waste in this inappropriate place, then the Rippers know it. Remember Lafarg. It is alarming that despite warnings from the medical profession, the burning of waste in Anhovem continues. We know the extent to which cancer is there. We know how the inhabitants and residents of Anhovega are now guaranteed the constitutional right to drinking water — with a fire tanker. And it's not today, it's a thing that lasts weeks, and they remind you of that. In the meantime, the company’s director boasts that production has also proceeded normally during the epidemic, to conclude new businesses and so on and so on. At this time, Minister, there is irreparable damage. We all like to brag about Soča, the queen of all rivers, and the Prime Minister has her on the cover of his Twitter. But to make sure that it actually stays, there's no interest. I fear that this group will not be able to do anything until, in fact, activists, until the local community is an equal factor in this debate. But what is the story with the interdepartmental groups, and we know why they usually start. So nothing can be done. This was also pointed out on Saturday, by a large crowd of people in Anhovem at the protest. Activists gathered from all over the country, the whole local community, so to speak. Therefore, until it is too late, Minister, I expect you to speed up the realization of these conclusions, to do more to make life better in the valley. We're talking about a high rate of cancer disease, a ruined country, a ruined health, destroyed water, destroyed air. Anhovo does not deserve this, but this is certainly a discussion material at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We will decide on the proposal this Thursday in the framework of the vote. Minister for Environment and Space Mag. Andrej Vizjak will answer Gregor Perič's question regarding the Housing Law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u50	The Ministry of Environment and Space has decided to prepare a novel of the Housing Law, not the whole new Housing Law, because we wanted to crack some of the toughest nuts or close some of the most open questions. The novel of the Housing Law, which was prepared at the Ministry of Environment and Space, was already under public scrutiny and received a number of comments. This is how we now come up with a proposal that will go into coalition and intersectoral coordination. Keyly, what we plan to do with the renovation is to raise non-profit rents to some cost level. This is because the rent has been unchanged for 13 years, since 2007. As a result, all housing funds, both local and national, are no longer able to cover the basic maintenance costs of such a low rent, except in order to take care of an investment activity related to the implementation of the Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025. And this is also socially totally unfair, because the reduced rent is available to those who can afford and are not subject to social treatment, as are all those who are subject to social treatment. It is therefore right that this is regulated by subsidies, for those whose social status prevents them from covering the rent, and for those who can do so to pay the rent. The second is the adjustment of the rental subsidy system, which is important in relation to the first. The third is the possibility of more indebtedness of housing funds if we are to increase the housing fund. Here, when in charge, I would mention that we will also have to agree with the Slovenian banking system on some new more favourable housing credit schemes when we talk about the Housing Fund, as well as city housing funds. This moment is possible to obtain credits for a period of 30 years and as a result the depreciation periods are short, there is not much housing for 30 years. And, of course, this prevents more investment activity of the funds. Thus, it is another parallel activity that does not otherwise cover the marriage. Then it is very important that we establish this so-called public hire service. I must say that there has now been a great deal of criticism in public treatment at the expense of the special tax treatment status of this public hire service, as well as the free services of the public hire service. Thus, we are inclined here to make no distinction as to the income benefits of the public rental service, as well as the fact that the services of the public hire service would be carried out on a non-profit or cost basis, so that the budget would, of course, provide the initial costs, meaning the establishment of an appropriate team with all the necessary equipment. Furthermore, it is also important to reduce the consensus for regular and extraordinary management. Here, consensus-making has effectively prevented these transactions to a significant extent. Furthermore, it is a very important separate fiduciary account for the reserve fund, it is said to be a separate account that there is no mixing of what is for the reserve fund and what is left, but of course strengthening inspection. The public hearing ended in mid-August. We plan to start and end this coalition and inter-departmental coordination in September and will be sent to Parliament in October.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u51	Thank you very much. My friend Perich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all, especially to the Minister, the Minister. I am pleased to hear what I have heard so far, because even under the previous Minister, very much energy has been invested to take a number of steps forward in many areas, as you have done correctly. As I understand it, these efforts continue in the current government as well. But if I just add one more thing to my mind. One is this administrative aspect, i.e. what the state can further help to optimise legislation from the point of view of its operation. The second part, however, is mainly public finance or financial. Here I would recommend that we consider making equipment, i.e. investments by the State itself or local communities, or in terms of borrowing public funds. Let us also try to make this area interesting for private capital, which would see some very long-term, particularly stable investment. However, we must move forward in this regard also in terms of the price of these rentals. At the moment, the price is such that it does not allow the development of this fund. This has, in the long term, led to the fact that these funds are becoming increasingly poorly maintained, unable to expand and not interesting for development. In front of all of us is one very big challenge and I am counting on your cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have a chance to complete your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I fully agree with your findings. True, the national housing programme is very ambitious when it comes to public rentals – 10,000 public rentals by 2025 is a very ambitious goal. I hope that the measures we have taken so far can reach about half of them, up to 5,000 public rental apartments by 2025. For what else at least two or three must be done. You have already mentioned one, to increase the interest of private investors in this fund as well. I must say that it already exists, because in Slovenia housing blocks or neighborhoods are being built, where then the private housing fund partially buys out these apartments. So the housing fund doesn't build them, but the built-up buys them back. The second is the possibility of building rental apartments from the recovery fund. We have also announced a partial ambition that from this recovery fund, which is now being created after the covid epidemic to start the Slovenian economy, and also to increase resilience through public rental apartments, we would devote some of the resources and thus create more housing. Thirdly, as I have already mentioned, it is also a better way or a longer way to finance public rentals through 50-year loans, which is not yet possible today. We hope to be able to do so in agreement with the banks. Each of you, who ever built a house or bought an apartment, did not buy it or build it for 30 years, probably built it for several generations. Therefore, the absolute short depreciation period is 30 years for such apartments. This would also reduce costs if they were extended for a longer period and increase the capacity of new buildings.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Minister for Environment and Space Mag. Andrej Vizjak will answer the question of Lidija Dijak Mirnik regarding the work of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for the environment and space.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The Member's question referred to the work of the Environment Inspectorate, which in the case of the control of inadequate storage of municipal waste and the disposal of suspected heavily contaminated land, such as the cases in the Celje zinc and construction and other wastes in the case of the former site of the Dogos, was found to be ineffective there. For waste storage, the Government has adopted a new regulation concerning the storage of solid waste in the open. But the adjustment deadlines have not yet expired. One year is due just now, on September 15th and the second, of course, within 36 months. That is to say, if construction is required under the rules governing construction, the outdoor storage of waste must be adapted to the requirements laid down in this Regulation within 36 months. Given that the deadlines, in particular those related to construction operations, have not expired, the inspectorate cannot act in accordance with its powers. The Inspectorate is also aware of the problems of soil pollution in the old zinc sector and is also regularly conducting inspection procedures related to the treatment of this issue. Of course, the problem of soil pollution is solved in the integrated and systematic implementation of the area's rehabilitation. This coalition has also committed itself in the Coalition Treaty to accession and activities in this area. On the site of the former Gramosa Dogoše inspections are also carried out regularly, and one will take place in the coming days. Regulatory decisions have also been issued within the framework of the irregularities identified. For example, a commitment to Gokop removed these irregularities.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Comrade Divac Mirnik, are you requesting a supplement to your response?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary! We're talking about the work of Maribor, these are the Dogs. I've listed everything that's been going on in that area for years. Of course, it's not your fault, not under any circumstances. But the fact is, you also wrote in your written reply that this company Gokop has all the permission not to do so. He's out of mining clearance, too. By the end of September, it has to fix the matter, and that's not the case. That's why I asked you what you'd do. I believe that if Gokop makes an assessment of the waste, what they are, that if he orders it, of course, it writes that it's all great, oh and right that there's no dangerous waste there. But if you talk and get papers from independent organizations that do this, even from people who have seen it in their own eyes, where these wastes were going, then the story is a little different. I'd like the inspectorate here to share her part of the business in a way that protects people without protecting any private. Let's just say that's what you want in this country as soon as possible. That's why I'm asking you once again: How are you actually going to protect the lives of endangered people in the work of Maribor, even through inspection services in Dogoš? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Of course, it is in the interest of both the Environment and Space Inspectorate and the Ministry to act in the interest of people and not to work in the interest of individual economic operators. It is true, however, that the capacity of inspectors is limited. Therefore, we are pleased and are pleased to see all the information, concrete, evidentiary evidence of the illegal or improper conduct of the debtors. So welcome is any photograph or any other conclusion that is incontrovertible about some things being violated or not being respected. In a recent case in the Municipality of Vransko, when one environmental permit is issued for a particular economic activity, where the investor indicated that they would only do so in a closed space, it turned out that it also works in an open space, although it explicitly stated that it would only do so in a closed space. But he was properly photographed, and now he has major problems because he was misleading both officials and inspectors. I want to tell you that, unfortunately, there is also a need for a little more cooperation with our inspection services in collecting these materials and then it is indisputably easier to act. Today, every phone with a camera, it can record something on the camera, and it can be useful. However, as far as the inspectors are concerned, I must tell you that this number is relatively limited, depending on the number of applications. I must also say that inspectors are a suitable means to resolve the various neighbourhood disputes – now I am not talking about this case – and they are burdened by various things and by whether an object is properly set up or not properly set up when a neighbour of this neighbour or something like that is. That is why we plan, within the framework of the construction law, to transfer or not transfer, but to extend the work of competence to municipal or local supervisors, especially when we are talking about simple facilities and similar, so that inspectors can devote more time, energy and effort to more complex cases such as waste dumps and environmental pollution.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Comrade Wilderness Mirnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u62	Thank you. Given that it is a very serious topic, which is not the only one in Slovenia, because it is a threat to the population, because it is a threat to the lives of people, especially children living in this part of Maribor, it is in Dogoša, but also, in view of that, Mr Minister, when you said that all the evidence that speaks for this is welcome, according to my data, the inspection has all this evidence. And she didn't just get it once. She's had it multiple times. And I'm gonna make sure she gets it again. However, I would like, Mr President, to speak to the honourable Minister at any of the following meetings about this question or the answer, because this is such a serious issue that we must begin to resolve immediately. Every day is one new victim and someone with a new disease, even in Dogoša and elsewhere in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday in the framework of the vote. Minister for Environment and Space Mag. Andrej Vizjak will answer the question of Boštjan Koražija regarding the promotion of urban agriculture, in particular urban gardens.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u64	The Ministry of Environment and Space allows the conservation of agricultural and other land in urban areas for urban agriculture. To this end, this area is also included in the preparation of a new strategy for the spatial development of the Republic of Slovenia by 2050. This strategy was publicised some year or more ago. Many workshops were organized in Slovenia as well as a presentation, so we also pay attention to this work through the preparation of new rules for municipal spatial planning and recommendations within the State Spatial Order. Within the framework of the State Spatial Order, the Green Systems Handbook has been developed and published in cities and settlements, which includes kindergartens and urban agriculture as typology, recommendations for planning at municipal level and encourages organic agriculture, which is primarily devoted to the production of food for the provision of the city. The Green Roof Manual and vertical greening are also being prepared, which also includes roofs, where green areas on the roofs are intended for urban gardening.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u65	Comrade Korazi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u66	Dear Minister, thank you very much for your answer. Look, here's the thing. You mentioned this spatial development strategy very well by 2050. You know, these urban gardens or city gardens are also very important from this point of view because cities are overloaded by urban warming because they overheat during the summer. The other aspect, which is even more important, is this self-sustainment, which at the time of the coronavirus or covida-19 is one of the aspects of trying to find as many solutions as possible, even when it comes to self-sustainment. Previously, you've been talking about these things, that some plans are already in place, and this project is under way, and I'm curious: Have you also considered that any European agricultural money would come from this Green Deal or Green Deal if this money were to be diverted into urban gardens? I would also like to commend him for being from our end, and I know that the Minister was recently in Haloza and in the vicinity of Ptuj, the Municipality of Kidrichev, which is already very much at this, is also mentioned in these urban gardens by the Municipality of Ptuj. The municipality of Maribor is essentially an innovator or leader in this direction and has already established these community urban gardens or eco gardens, which are very important for sustainable development since 2012. As has already been said, we will need to think about these smart places where there has been a lot of work lately. I think these city gardens are a very important aspect of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u67	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u68	Yes, honourable Member, you correctly note that these green areas, gardens within the cities, are important in at least two aspects. First from this urban spatial planning point of view, and second from the possibility of self-sustainment. You have addressed this issue to both ministers, including the Minister of Agriculture. I will find it difficult to answer from its source, it was part of an additional question as to how it is possible to subsidise such production. But all I can tell you is that there is also a very important cooperation between national and regional and municipal level when this is planned. As a rule, the spatial development strategy of some direction, and then the municipalities, through municipal spatial plans and detailed municipal spatial plans, specify this in a particular area. The focus is certainly on following this. This is recognized as an important quality of life in urban centres and, as you can see, also the possibility of self-sustainment, which is increasingly valued not only because we have some locally produced food, but also if we produce ourselves, we know what to put in our mouths and it is also an additional quality. So much for supplementation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Comrade Korazi, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u70	Nothing against the Minister personally, but only when it comes to topics of better quality of life do I always suggest that we put such a question or answers to the debate. I know there is little chance that this matter will be confirmed, but look, the times are as they are, and I think we are now more than ever the creators of our destiny. I think it is right that we discuss such matters more fully in the National Assembly. When it comes to raising the quality of life or a healthy way of life, there has been a lot of talk about it before, it is right to discuss this in the National Assembly. I think it is right that we also Members not only think in the direction of questions, but also help to find answers together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly this Thursday in the framework of the vote. We are moving on to questions from Members and Members of Parliament, first round. The question will be raised by Aljaž Kovacič, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec Lipicer, who is absent until 3:30 p.m. Comrade Kovacs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, President. I wasn't aware it was a percentage, but good. I'm actually going to ask about school and this virus. Now, usually when you ask questions about measures, you are immediately accused of denying the virus or of not sticking to it. Therefore, at the outset, let me say that we do not deny and respect all measures and act responsibly both personally and in the List of Marjan Šarca viruses. We are pleased that, despite the virus, schools were opened for all students on September 1st. We also actually advocated this because it turned out that distance education is not comparable to classroom instruction. It is said that there have been some consequences for all the students who have actually been educated at home. At the moment, the Minister's so-called model B is being taught, all students are said to be in schools under the direction of the NIJ. The problem is that these guidelines are often lifeless and are virtually impossible to provide in schools. The teachers and guides of all these instructions given to them by the NIJ cannot be realized. Therefore, the first question for the Minister: Who gives these instructions – or are NIJZ politicians and representatives alone, or are psychologists, educators, sociologists involved? In my opinion, if they were, they would not be the kind of thing that we've heard in the last few days that instructions have come that educators who are six or eight hours old with 14 children in kindergarten should wear masks. In fact, it is not possible to have 8 hours of masking, nor is it possible to wear masks then in classes. It is said that the teacher wears a mask for 8 hours and then speaks, and the students also have masks. That's why I'm asking: Are psychologists, educators, and sociologists involved, and what are the consequences for students? We know that there was some kind of communication noise again, because then certain instructions were withdrawn. Another question I have for the secretary. An epidemiological picture is what it is. We see it gets worse from day to day. My question is not to discuss who is to blame. In fact, given that the minister has repeatedly mentioned that she has several options, we are currently on model B: Where does she think that the point of fracture the Ministry is prepared to go to model C? Again, let me say that in the List of Marjan Šarc, we are somehow advocating that students should be in school.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Comrade Aljaž Kovačič, do you insist on an oral response or will you be satisfied with the written? Lip, okay. The next question will be posed by the Magi. Meira Hot, Minister of Justice Mag. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Madam Secretary! At the end of August, the European Commission sent a draft report on the rule of law in the Republic of Slovenia to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The final report is to be prepared by the European Commission by the end of September and submitted to the College of Commissioners for formal confirmation by mid-October for confirmation by mid-October. The report adopted is then intended to inform the Ministers of the Member States of the European Union within the General Affairs Council, where the annual dialogue on the rule of law will take place. Social Democrats are being assessed as a truly important European mechanism to ensure objective annual reporting and assessment of the rule of law of the Member States of the European Union. We believe that it should act as a preventive tool that strengthens common awareness of the importance of the rule of law and its central place in the European political space. That is why I was personally surprised by the approach and response of the departmental ministry, which confirmed without comment the draft controversial and contradictory positions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the report of the European Commission on the rule of law in our country. The draft report, as far as we are aware from the media reporting, would actually be beneficial to Slovenia. We are certainly aware that the situation in certain areas of the functioning of the judicial system is not satisfactory, but it is improving, as shown by statistics and relevant reports. That's how you, Your Honor, confirmed it at the hearing before your term of office. Similarly, you argued in several press statements and interviews until last week, when your statements were somewhat contradictory. In your interview with the newspaper Delo, you said that you would not talk about the independence of the judiciary within the framework of the working group you will set up, since there is no doubt about this independence of the judiciary for you and we cannot doubt it. But then you said that the truth about the rule of law was somewhere in between. Where is the rule of law, Madam Minister? Is the situation in Slovenian justice improving or deteriorating? Do we have a government with us or don't we have it? You also said in your statement, quote: “I think we need to talk, because this is the only way we can get to consensus and clear up the constant evidence of justice. I want us to review this and come to a solution where it is necessary." What exactly did you mean by that? What kind of readings? How do you intend to reach consensus with a discussion on the real state of justice? Where and how will we talk? Whose grades will you consider? We are talking about a political debate or a real professional debate on which evaluations at the end of the day already exist. For example, the EU Justice Scoreboard, which always notes improvements in Slovenian justice, as you yourself mentioned at the hearing. It has been understood from your discussions so far that the situation in the judiciary is satisfactory, good that it is improving, of course, that there are certain shortcomings, that there is still room for improvement. But now your statements are somewhat contradictory, because now you are saying that we need to talk about the real state of justice. Who, then, will assess the real situation in justice? For the purposes of this [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u76	Your Honor, thank you for asking. Mr President, thank you for saying so. You've been asking a lot of questions, if I can't answer some of them right away, then I'll tell you later. I agree and the fact is that the rule of law is the foundation of every democratic society and is also the foundation of our society, is part of our political system and also our legal system, and I am committed to it myself. I also agree that the mechanism, and I welcome it, introduced by the European Commission, can show the state of the country and follow it on the basis of a methodology that the European Commission has also set up. As you said, we received a draft, received by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is also responsible. We had a deadline of four. 9. to make comments to the ministries. Let me stress, however, the rule of law is not exclusively justice. We probably agree with that. There are at least four building blocks to be monitored in this report. So there's probably a question for someone else here. In that first part, the Ministry of Justice reviewed the draft, as factual comments had to be made. We have found that we have no comments and have informed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Later, we received a review of the draft government material setting out the particulars. I'm not gonna know who they are anymore, because I think you all already have this, even though it's marked Internal. The issue is therefore the contradiction of certain indicators covered by the report itself, i.e. methodology. One thing I explicitly disagree with is the question of the independence of the judiciary. As I told you, the judiciary is independent of me, and it is very difficult for me to accept what is stated in the draft report. I agree with you or see that there is still an opportunity for better cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with regard to the drafting of such texts, even when they relate to justice. It is still my assessment, and I continue to stress that justice in the Republic of Slovenia is working satisfactorily to work well, that it is a trend that is improving. However, there are certain cases in the judiciary and the report will also say that there are still some problems in the judiciary, particularly in the area of economic disputes, including criminal disputes and administrative disputes. We know at all after the last decision of the European Court that the Administrative Court must carry out the main proceedings if we do not act quickly, we may also have a collapse in this area. This report also criticises the persecution of economic and banking crime, but it is somewhat of transparency. The other findings are favourable to Slovenia and show development and progress. However, as I have a problem, and even in the past, the Minister of the former Government, has also commented on the methodology of how the data are covered. The comments were that comparable indicators should be taken into account, even when it comes to two indicators showing contradictory data, that very clear criteria for assessing performance should be established. And there is another matter that I find difficult to accept on my own to assess on the basis of perception. And what the report states is that, on the basis of perception, our judiciary is independent, that it is not independent, and I find it very difficult to agree. What we're going to do next and why I decided to do so. We know that in the government we may have different views on the rule of law, and this is an opportunity for us to therefore simplify ourselves on the methodology. So not the question of independence, but the methodology, whether we all understand the same thing and how we value justice. It is therefore intended to involve the Supreme Court, the State Prosecutor's Office, external experts, experts from the Ministry of Justice, where we can go through the report and evaluate [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u77	You're out of time, Madam Secretary. My colleague Meira Hot, you have the floor for a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u78	Thank you very much. In addition, I would still ask a few more specific questions that I have already asked, but as you rightly said, I have made quite a few. First of all, I want to know when you're talking about the real state of justice and the response to the obvious. What specific accounts are we talking about? Because you said very nicely at the beginning of your term that you do not agree to the fact that the judiciary is divided on the left and right. Now I want to know: Are we talking about eyewitnesses coming from a certain political field, or are we talking about eyewitnesses coming from the professional public? However, it is very difficult, of course, to discuss in more detail the Government's position on the report in question, since the material has been labelled Internal and we have not had the opportunity to discuss it. I believe that the National Assembly should absolutely discuss this report. I am aware that this belongs to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but in spite of all that you, as the competent minister, are judging a department that is very important in terms of the context of the rule of law, and that we should also discuss this as very important stakeholders in the National Assembly. So once again: What were you thinking? How do you intend to reach a real consensus on the state of justice if the National Assembly is not included? Are you going to include us? Do you personally as a competent minister trust in Slovenian justice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u80	Thank you. I'm going to answer that very briefly. When I say I get the readings, I get the readings from the left and right. I am increasingly wanted by the people on the left to define themselves in certain specific judgments handed down by the Supreme Court, or on individual separate opinions issued by a particular judge, and they are trying to tell me that this judge is independent. It also happens to me on the right-hand side, concrete indications, which are also in the public eye, to be judged impartially. It's about these findings, actually, it's pure political evidence. And I find it increasingly disturbing that both sides, both left and right, actually find that something is wrong with the judiciary. And this undoubtedly also affects the perception of independence alone. But I believe that the judiciary is independent and I still trust the judiciary. The internal code is due to the fact that the draft report is also under the heading Secret. I admit that I have not read it myself, because it is in a special safe judgment on the MZZ and it is only a working group. Until there's a final report, except for what comes under the table and divides, except for a few people, no one will see it. At this point, we are not considering the inclusion of the National Assembly. I am thinking that this group will first come to some conclusion that it will make some proposals, what needs to be improved, and perhaps further material for the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u81	Thank you very much. My colleague Meira Hot.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Given that this is an extremely important issue, the issue of how to look at the rule of law in our country, about the objectivity of this report, I believe that there would be a legitimate debate in the National Assembly, so I propose that this be decided in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly this Thursday in the framework of the vote. The next question will be asked by a colleague of Mojca Škrinjar, the Minister for Environment and Space Mags. Andre Vissiak, who's been away since 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I ask you: How will you guarantee, within your powers, the constitutional right to clean drinking water to residents and residents of Ljubljana, with the problematic municipal sewage construction through the Ljubljana drinking water reservoir, leading the sewer from Medvod and Vodice to the Ljubljana cleaning plant via the clean drinking water reservoir, the so-called C0 channel? The National Assembly has clearly expressed its concerns about this construction and you have stopped the revision of the project. This between us, the Ljubljana girls and the Ljubljanaians, raises the fear that we will run out of clean drinking water. The performance with rigid pipes covered with concrete blocks is considered inappropriate for moving terrain. I'm asking you: Will you try to obtain information on the tightness of the existing similar pipeline structures from Medvod to Brod? There are allegations of leaving this link. I also ask you: Are you familiar with the opinion of the professional institute, specifically the National Institute for Public Health, which explicitly rejected the course of the route this year? Is there a similar example in the world of sewerage flowing through drinking water supplies? Let me point out that, as I know the claims in the profession and in the laziness of the public, the opinion prevails that the problem of sewerage between Medvod and Vodice could be solved in another more appropriate way. I am aware that you have encountered an already existing situation at the time of your appointment, but I would like to ask you for an opinion on the matter, on the problem and ask you for a solution, because I believe that the values of health and the clean environment are in fact one of the highest places on the list of values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u85	Colleague Škrinjar, I would like to ask you whether you insist on an oral answer or if you are satisfied with the minister's written reply. An oral response? Thank you very much. Primož Siter will ask the Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Cigler to the King.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The question of homes for the elderly at the time of the epidemic or the spread of covid-19 infections. The survival of the weak is always in the hands of decision makers. Homes for the elderly suffered the most damage in the time of the virus, the highest mortality rate and burn-out employees and so on, the most infections. We hoped that, after a bad first wave experience, the government would draw up a more fruitful plan to deal with the virus in the second wave, and the opposite happened, I note. It's the government. We could say she made a mistake again. At the time of preparation for the second wave, it was directed by the Government that homes establish zones. So red zones for those who are infected, for those who have been in contact with the infected, grey zones, and white zones for those who have been treated or who have not been in contact with the infected. Then came homes for the elderly under the auspices of the Community of Social Institutions and said: “No, this thing is also feasible. We have neither room nor infrastructure to realize this thing, nor do we have people who can implement such a strategy." An essential alternative — so experts and the field — would be to establish for the infected some separate locations where they would be treated. This did not happen, so then we had the summers of Ajdovščina and Crassus and the home of the elders in Hrastnik and so on. The Minister of Health, who gave this first directive to introduce this strategy, insisted on it. Since this key decision-making or the adoption of this instruction to introduce such a strategy has not taken into account the profession, the voice of the court has not been taken into account, I ask you: How did the strategy for setting up these red, gray and white zones in homes for older people with infected residents go? How, as a result, did the ministries provide spatial and humanely satisfactory conditions for the establishment and operation of these zones, given that the Community of Social Institutions has warned that there are no such grounds? What is today, when we look back, from the start of this strategy to today, an assessment of the effectiveness of the implementation of this strategy? To what extent do the ministries intend to insist on a strategy for the future, given that the terrain bears witness that the matter is simply not drinking water in practice? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u87	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer. Mr. Secretary Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u88	Yes, thank you, President. Thank you, too, for the question to the Member of Parliament. I am still giving priority to the healthcare profession, which advises according to the possibilities and the situation of the optimal solutions that can be available. Thus, we need to know that there are both human and spatial, sometimes organisational problems both in the health sector and in the homes themselves for older citizens. Above all, the factor that is the most restrictive, of course the cadre, is called a health care staff that can be made available. First of all, we need to know that, on the one hand, you are older, where there are mostly no significant signs of infection, they do not want to change their location from home because this home is their home. On the other hand, if we want an X-ray facility to be installed in it, we simply do not have enough staff in the country to ensure this. We're talking about professional staff. We need to know that home for the elderly is also bound by legislation, namely health protection legislation as well as health legislation, in particular the Health Act. Of course, we need to know that these homes also have paid health care personnel, unfortunately, on the other hand, they have too few other caregivers, and this healthcare staff does most of the work. However, according to professional solutions, it has also proved to this day that homes where this division into gray and red zones has been taken into account have significantly fewer problems, even if there is an infection, by the fact that infections are mostly caused by employee input in their homes. We tried to help them, and we kept trying to help them. First, by moving them to a nursing hospital for a few days in the event of initial infections of this disease, however, giving them some time to reorganize. On the other hand, documentation for this invitation to tender for the possibility of purchasing mobile residential filter units is also in the preparation phase, where the spatial difficulties are the worst. In addition, those who wanted were given many additional trainings. In addition, a group of coordinators has been appointed to provide professional assistance. And therefore, I agree, ideal solutions are simply not available at this time, not for health care or for homes. It is, however, a fact that, on the basis of all meetings and meetings, which is also likely to be said by a fellow Minister of the Bricker King, he has only found one common language, how best to act in these situations and, above all, to remain on the real soil, what is feasible and what is not feasible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Yes, and you, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u90	Thank you very much for this question, from which it is said that we share care for the most vulnerable, which the elderly in nursing homes certainly are. With regard to the design and establishment of these grey, red, white zones, it is indeed a health professional issue. The solutions, as colleague Gantar explained earlier, were designed in cooperation with the expert group led by Dr Beović. And this expert group has also drawn up protocols. The protocols you discussed in your question, which are graphically indicated here. It is essential to strengthen, on the one hand, with the Ministry of Health, preventive activity in homes, to alert and inform the management of home and team about the importance of all preventive actions, to provide them with the possibility of training for the proper use of all protective equipment, to report on the personnel and state of these personal protective equipment, and to prepare a regional employee list that would be activated in case an infection occurs in any home to burden the teams. We'll probably be able to talk more about this further.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Siter, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u92	Thank you very much. You say it's a matter of cooperation with a professional. Yeah, but there's two professions involved, one's medical, the other's caregiver. And the Community of Social Institutions was very loud here, that was one of the reasons why it stepped out of the covid-19 working group in the government, because they simply understood that there was no listening to this part of the profession. And the key problem is that the government makes wrong decisions because it cannot drive after this slalom between political and all possible professional decisions. It insists on this strategy, which the care profession has made clear, "we cannot do this, we do not have people, we do not have infrastructure to do this, we need to separate these people from home, in order to prevent proliferation, so that we can provide other care and care activities, so that our staff can carry out what it has to do." The medical profession deals with the infected, but not everyone in the homes is infected. We cannot tolerate the health care of some to forget about everyone else. And very clearly they told the homes of Minister Gantar, otherwise you said that you can provide two thirds of the homes for the establishment of the zone. Amnesty International did research where the results were completely different, 95% of the home said, “We cannot go.” My question is: Why did you not listen sufficiently to the entire profession, the care profession? Why is it still insisting on the establishment of these zones if so loudly the Community of Social Institutions, the profession, the field care profession is shouting that it cannot be done?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u94	Thank you. We'll share our time again. Let me say that the actual situation is quite the opposite. First of all, I must point out that I am extremely grateful for all the efforts, all the professional work that the Community of Social Institutions has been doing in recent months, in that they are a link between us, home management and the Ministry of Health. It is true that there were some points where, due to disagreement with the proposals, the community temporarily left behind the common table, but I stress, they remained in informal discussions with us. And I must say that not so long ago there was a very good expert meeting with the expert group, with Dr Beovic and other members, where we somehow cleared up many disagreements that might not have been well-communicated, and determined what might be the first response when the virus appears in a particular social security institution. And what Gantar mentioned earlier is crucial and is proving to be a very good approach, namely that the first infected, infected in the first 24 hours in the social security institution, withdraws to the hospital so that the home can be properly prepared. Homes, including teams of home, such as Hrastnik, who has an extremely difficult living situation, such as the House of Older Maribor and others have prepared a red zone and have confirmed that this is one of the best measures so that they can properly prepare themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u96	I am glad that it has come with at least a majority of a solid agreement that we are all aware of what is actually possible to do. In fact, it is a health problem where it is necessary to take into account the criteria of the medical profession in the first place. I can understand NGOs and I don't know who yet, but I can't take them as professional organisations in this area with all my will. We have also consulted some abroad on how to organise in existing situations. And here in these decisions, politics does not play any role and we are talking about infected people in homes that are in 60, 70, 80 percent without signs of disease, where we make their lives bitter for thousands and one way, if because they are infected, but the Priories want to move into an environment where it is simply not available the right conditions for work because they cannot be witnessed by a colleague or I. And that's why again. Homes have registered health activities, are also financed for the implementation of health activities, and in this part we do not require them to do so. But there is a need for some good will, and organizations here we can try to help and we are doing it, and that is why even so far, where the problem has been, we have managed somehow in time [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Siter, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I will ask the National Assembly to hold a debate on this subject, of course, mainly because I see a repetition of a bad mistake again. I'm not speaking ideologically, I'm not talking about it, I'm not talking about it because I read an article about it. I speak because I spent the summer as a volunteer at a nursing home in Hrastnik, and because I know what it means to set up three zones somewhere where it's impossible to do that, where people do not have infrastructure, they don't have a place where the doors are too narrow to make a bed with an old man on it, where in one zone the elderly have to lie on the floor, in the hallway. Minister, it's true, I've been there, I've seen it with my own eyes, I've laid them on the ground myself. And look, the thing is impossible, at first it was impossible. Homes initially said that such things cannot be done because they cannot provide care and care for all people in the home if these things are realized. In the group that I worked in, which covered 50 people, there were six of us, of those two students who were learning how to work, two of me and someone who had no idea, there was because we offered hands, and two employees who knew how to serve, 50 people in emergency situations, it wasn't about normal operating, feeding, and so on, extraordinary conditions, moving, cleaning and so on. These are simply wrong decisions in which, with respect for the Minister, you have failed to take the field into account, not to mention non-governmental organisations, not to mention some civil associations, I am talking about the Community of Social Institutions, the first day they said, "It is not possible, it will not be possible to do so." And look at the Hare. See, with each of the next news we read on this subject, it is confirmed, as we have in fact highlighted in Levica since spring. The infected must urgently move to a location where they can be provided with care, thus ensuring normal work at home also for all others, the zones are not functioning and there is a need for human resources reinforcement. It is necessary to change the whole strategy, not to wait again for the market to come as an eternal savior and to save this government's incompetence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u99	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 September 2020, in the framework of the votes. Maša Kociper will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honourable Minister. As you know, our party president is Mrs Mag. As your predecessor, Alenka Bratušek proposed a very popular amendment to the Road Transport Act, which introduced free cross-border transport for pensioners, people over 65 years of age, disabled persons and war veterans. And this proposal, as we now know from practice, has really been very well accepted in practice, and really a lot of pensioners and other categories have decided to do so. In view of this, in the SAB last week, European Mobility Week, we have also tabled a bill which in the same way regulates free tickets in municipalities with urban passenger transport, and we are very well aware that many urban municipalities are already offering this service to their citizens. However, there are several other cities, among them we are talking in particular about Ljubljana and Maribor, where there are no such possibilities for pensioners over 65 years of age, disabled persons and war veterans. It is also right to ensure that this possibility is also ensured from the point of view of equal treatment of people. Let me say that both I and my colleague Reich, immediately after the enactment of the law, which received a large majority in the National Assembly, most of the Members, for whom we thank again, have proposed in these municipalities, I in Ljubljana, my colleague in Maribor, to introduce transport to them in the same way, because in practice, when Minister Bratušek introduced this change, the costs of such introduction have proved to be much lower than they have been for years and years. The answers we received indicate that both municipalities cannot afford such free transport at this time, at least so they claim. By now, very large sums have been given to subsidise urban transport, and this additional difference of course could be a huge burden for them. We are talking about Ljubljana about the circus of 3 million euros and the Maribor municipality about half a million euros. Given that there is a record budget ahead of us, 13 billion has, and given that a lot of European funds are available, which are also used for infrastructure, including for various projects, not just for infrastructure, I am interested in your opinion. Will the Government support the proposal to introduce free urban passenger transport for pensioners, people over 65 years of age, disabled persons and war veterans? Can we hope to receive this proposal in Parliament with the appropriate majority? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has your word for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u102	Thank you very much for the very good question, very weighty and very much in place. Looking at trends in other European countries, it is certainly turning in this direction to the moment when at least public passenger traffic will be free of charge in order to pursue the objectives of sustainable mobility. So not for free, but for free. These are trends that time dictates for us. The question is therefore not whether Minister Jernej Vrtovec supports such a proposal. Of course I support him. The key thing is, how can we and how can we provide the means to implement not only this proposal, but I have already talked about this at the beginning of my term with the mayors of both municipalities, Maribor and Ljubljana, so that there will be no mistake, but that we will also organise students, students, not only in the summer months, what the SAB has proposed, but also in an integrated manner. It is said that those who are the largest consumers of public passenger transport have free public passenger mobility. In this way, we contribute to the whole story of carbon, as NEPN also says; it is said, rather than using the cars referred to in point A in point B, that public passenger transport is used. Therefore, public passenger transport must, for the first time, be attractive, efficient and also cost-effective. Your proposal, which is now in force, was indeed the law of the Ministry, if I may correct it, but the law of this National Assembly, your parliamentary group, which supported it, if I am not mistaken, all the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, not the proposal of the Ministry. And the proposal was very, very good. This moment is issued for 140,000 tickets for all pensioners. Let me say that roughly used, not as your parliamentary group wrote back then, but as much money as possible, we are almost at the number of €7 million. And this proposal, in essence, as the law was originally made, then after this law we quickly approached the implementation so that despite the co-crisis we could arrange and arrange all the necessary things for this law to come forward, from cards to a bunch of rules that we then changed. So I will say, this moment is necessary with regard to your proposal, this would be if we now went into this change, this situation would be illustrated, which we now have pensioners in cross-border transport, even within the municipalities, about 8 million euros in revenue for inter-border buses, and that is about 8 million euros in revenue for Slovenian railways, 3.5 if free driving were to be introduced, these costs should be borne out of the budget, the municipalities certainly not because they are not inclined to do so. And that would mean a budget drop in revenues in urban transport of around €8 million, not €1 million. And here I say we have to systematically approach this thing. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u104	Thank you very much. When we are all in these masks, we understand each other even more, so I don’t know if I understood you correctly that you said that the congregations were not inclined to do so. After you get to the word, you'll explain it a little bit. Novo mesto, Velenje, Nova Gorica, for example, are municipalities that already have this free urban transport. And, as we say, we estimate that in Ljubljana and Maribor, as the largest city municipalities, without this possibility of citizens, it would already be necessary for reasons of equality to introduce this option. But I am surprised that both in the Municipality of Maribor and the Municipality of Ljubljana we have received an answer that they are very fond of this option, but they lack these resources. As far as the funds are concerned, I see you're talking about significantly higher numbers than our numbers, even when you're talking about back-up tickets that have already been issued for cross-border traffic. I want to know: Are these costs related solely to the issuance of these tickets or are they related to the common costs of covidcrisis as well, say, the equipment of transport vehicles and everything related to this crisis? If you may have this information separately, how much is it? Otherwise, yes, I agree, not only with the objective of carbonisation, sustainable mobility, the green perspective promoted by the EU, but also with the aim of facilitating the lives of the most vulnerable groups should be a common agenda not only for the government, but also for this Parliament. In the SAB, we are convinced that, in this particular budget and with these huge funds that we have received for the first time in our lives from the European Union, many of these things that should have already been done could have been done. That's why I want to know: Do you have any information on whether these EU funds could result from any programmes that would allow funding in this area?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u105	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u106	Thank you very much. First of all, what was said in the end is possible and also certain things I proposed, especially from the REACT fund, when it comes to disinfection and so on, as a result of mitigating the crisis. I think we'll also get all the funding this way. If I move on. The two municipalities, the Municipality of Maribor and the Municipality of Ljubljana, favor this idea, and who would not be? But the problem is, I invited them, just like you asked them to co-finance. One is when we can talk about it in the opposition's parliamentary benches and propose that we both agree on it now, because we have turned our roles a little bit, but these two municipalities have also received more money from the title of principal, for example, and we could now be more open to this co-financing than it has been in your term of office in the past year. I'm gonna circle this thing again if we can somehow split these costs. Second thing. Numbers. I tell you what the numbers are just for this part about the pensioners, not all the other costs. At the time when you asked the Prime Minister about the price, we knew that it was 2,7 and 3 euros around, that we could not get through 3 euros in such a way that it would be less financial than now, but that cost would only go up. You need to know that the pensioner has about EUR 2 000 400 if he has full suspicion of using transport. So this is a good measure, which has financial implications greater than originally planned, absolutely. I told you what kind of information the services have provided me – the head of the Directorate is the same. The loss of revenue, according to the first estimates we have for Ljubljana and Maribor, will be the loss of revenue in urban transport from €7.5 million to €8 million per year. In addition, indirect costs arising from the need to increase capacity must be taken into account. We have this problem today, when, thank God, pensioners can go free or for 3 euros from Bled to Portorož, they can book the map one day earlier, the bus can be full, then we need to supply alternate buses on this line. And that's the extra cost to understand each other. This measure has been very well adopted among pensioners and is also welcome to apply it. At the same time, it costs to put new buses on these lines, which are subsidised and so on. For example, the same is true if a certain number of pensioners come from Vrhnika to Ljubljana while a certain number of pupils. Who's gonna stay out, especially when we've got 1.5 meters on the bus? And that's really what we do every day to figure out how to solve this. I will continue to speak with the congregations so that both congregations can join in considering the increase in headship.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u108	Thank you, Vice President. I will still, though I did not think, have made this proposal, which the Rules of Procedure allow me to talk a little bit more about, because now this conversation has opened up a number of new dilemmas. We in the SAB have been convinced all the time, and such were also the information that the Minister received from the field, that especially when we talk about cross-border traffic, a large number of these buses, trains, that is, what we have in most cases, is driving on these routes more or less empty. Okay, not in the tips, but outside the spikes more or less empty. And we have been assured that significantly higher costs will not arise from this title. That's the first one. However, if the demand for such modes of transport is higher than originally expected, it is also logical, however, to introduce additional means of transport. But, however, if our common goal is what you, Minister, said in the first part of the response, it is said that some broader objective, decarbonisation and permanent mobility and this green agenda, which is highlighted by President von der Leyen, and slowly this transport is also being upgraded free of charge for the other categories of the population, then we need to talk about how to do it and where to find it. I, who is already the third city councillor in the Municipality of Ljubljana and who knows what problems LPP faces there, have recently had to increase the ticket price for a long time. I find it hard to believe that there is anything in this town hall that could be co-financed. The fact is that we in the SAB are a responsible party, which, not like some of the parties, are constantly proposing something, knowing that there is no possibility. We are here now, and I have already stressed this three times, indeed in a situation where we have a historic opportunity to do something about these great EU funds. And if I understand the whole situation, it's not possible to just spend it on anything, say, wages or pensions, but it has to be spent on certain things that mean more, more, more added value for a country. And in this case, this broader added value is something we both agree on. Mr Vice-President, please write down my proposal to hold a general debate and we will vote on this. And thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u109	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 September 2020, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Branislav Rajić will ask the Minister for Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, with the adoption of the 2020 budget rebalancing, much attention has been given to the cultural cut. The rebalance is, of course, a corrective response to the consequences of the epidemic. Today, I would like to make a comparative presentation of the film and the audiovisual sector in the light of the approach that some other European countries have been able to implement at this time. The fact is, with State aid, they actually helped the domestic economy. I'm not saying it's a universal recipe, but it seems that these kind of receptions and incentives do provide positive solutions. Three weeks ago, on national television, I observed a statement by the Executive Director of the European Film Fund, who pointed out that investing one euro in the film created two to three euros of new investments in the country. The second exposed fact in the broadcast represents the zeal, ingenuity and planning of measures for the audiovisual sector. For instance, I will mention some countries that have managed to find ways and means in the current crisis to help the film and the audiovisual sector. These countries have been saving their economies in recent months through cultural measures and additional funds for newly established crisis funds, cinematographers, bank guarantees, and Netflix also offers assistance. For example, Austria earmarked €25 million for the crisis fund, of which €1 million for project development and €2.5 million for production. Finland has allocated €5 million for production, €1 million for cinematographers and €1 million for festivals. France provided EUR 50 million for the fund, EUR 1.8 million for guarantees and EUR 1 million for Netflix. Germany, of course, has committed 120 million dollars to help filmmakers, and for culture in its entirety an additional billion euros. So Slovenia's related countries have responded differently to the crisis in the sector and have found appropriate solutions and financial injections so that the sector can survive by creating additional value. My question is whether we can share a similar story or whether you can share a similar story. Has your ministry prepared at least similar proposals for measures that could help the Slovenian audiovisual sector from the current crisis and revive it? In order not to remain overlooked by even performing arts, music and dance, as well as those who are less threatened by the crisis, my question extends to your actions to help all artistic creation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking. The Member of Parliament has highlighted a number of things. From the fact that inputs into culture multiply, in this case also in the film field. I can agree with that, but I have never seen very convincing calculations. We like to say that the inputs to culture multiply. If that were absolutely true, we probably wouldn't be particularly supportive of culture. Well, but, of course, culture needs to be maintained separately, and no country, especially in these times of covida-19, has, as I would say, renounced it. With regard to the measures we have taken, we have, of course, made them public several times. Even today, if I have to, I'll do it again. However, we have prepared about 10 measures that meet the challenges that have affected us during this disease. You are also talking about the right way that not all ways of going against the endangered culture are the same as true or effective. This is true in view of how countries are established and how the cultural sector is set up. And I would say that, of course, we too have chosen our own way in terms of how we have a culture formed within the country. And I would say that in these ways, of course, we are different, but we were, I hope to say, equally comprehensive and no less comparatively spent in supporting culture. For it is that in other countries, for example, here you mentioned different countries and these different numbers, I was recently in Germany and I also knew some things, of course I was trying to obtain data. It is a matter of linking the Republic of Germany, if you want, mainly by its actions, to finance private financing of a cultural institution other than that. You must know, however, that our country takes most cultural institutions into its budget at both national and other levels. That's why it seems like we're less invested in culture. However, we are not, in particular not with these measures when this disease occurred. For example, each year we spend about $8.9 million on self-employed people under the budget, now we have allocated additional funds, totalling around 15 million. If Germany, which, of course, is often heard to have invested a billion in culture, in all other things, if Germany invested as much in self-employed as we do, because it is 40 times as big, it would only have to pay 600 million or 0.6 billion for self-employed people. It's just an illustration. However, we have taken care of culture in a fairly comprehensive way and have taken a whole range of measures both in the first, second and third special laws. I think that culture has been protected at all, you would say, areas and nowhere deprived. After all, we gave the self-employed a basic income, then we substituted for work at home, we paid the wages, for pregnant women and all similar measures, we can especially, if you want, list them, as we have already said many times. So I would say that this year's budget, which was fully taken into account by the former Minister's budget, except for the rebalancing, can be further clarified, as we have already explained several times. None of the cultural sectors were affected in any way by the fact that we provided everywhere the costs of the everyday establishment as well as the programme costs to which we could take 21% of all public institutions, and we did not do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u113	Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u114	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, of course, your answer is in order. I know that miracles cannot be done and that the Ministry of Culture has tried to solve, to a large extent, this mess or situation that has arisen. However, when we mention new receptions, it seems to me that you are already expressing doubts in your response whether this multiplier effect is indeed true. In a way, that doubt upsets me, because it's you who should check it out. And that is why I think, aside from our way being good enough, that people have survived, that it is possible time to look for ways and receptions that would enable people to live, not only to survive, especially in this audiovisual sector. It is interesting that this private financing of the cultural institutions mentioned in Germany is indeed something that should also be established by us. But I see again that the person and the ministry who must ensure this as some kind of trust is back on your side. And we agree that this untapped potential of replication remains in the audiovisual sector, only some feasible cases need to be found. In that sense, I wanted to talk to you today. Do you see the possibility of this improving, or do you see the space for this to happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u116	Thank you very much for the additional question. The multiplier effect is, of course, to be taken into account. These, for example, have been calculated in some neighbouring countries, have not been or have never been calculated in us, but they like to say that this multiplier effect is 1:5, 1:3. In fact, we have some calculations that point to 1.2 possible, which is questionable because we really need to do additional basic and real studies. You said it would also be necessary to make things live and survive. Yes, listen, of course, they live and they survive. After all, the budget was adopted in 2020, in the former Ministry. Did anyone give him a hard time? Has anyone bothered the previous budget? Was something wrong? I don't understand it at all. And given that the rebalancing was, in fact, nothing in general happened in the rebalancing, except for a lot of public speaking, was negative, but we made it clear to the public that it was mainly cohesion funds transferred to the next term, which could not be used because of a disease that lasted three months or is still going on. Those responsible for it on the Ministry's side, if you want, as on the side of those who said they would take advantage of it, it's not. And that's not obvious because they couldn't objectively. About how many countries give. Public expenditure on cultural services in European countries, let's say Slovenia is 8th, we have previously talked about Germany, which is 24th place, how much public expenditure, how much countries give. So there is, of course, a completely different private sector and local communities are completely different and there is something else to say. Therefore, even in the world, the automotive industry has so many tax contributions that we cannot afford, but we are giving very much or enough, according to our capabilities, I will say, according to our cultural capabilities, that it is of course living and even surviving. This, of course, is also due to the previous budget. I hope that in 2021 we will also be able to increase some of the items that, in my opinion, need to force creativity in particular, i.e. for creativity, for creative programmes, for creative artists, for culturers of more resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Ambassador Jani Ivanuša will ask Health Minister Tomaž Gantar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the minister, to the ministers, to all present in the Chamber! In health care, we are constantly faced with corruption and the uneconomic behaviour of public institutions in the procurement of medicines and medical devices. I'm going to touch the Maribor University Clinical Center. Suspicious transactions appear in this center, according to my information. According to publicly available data, the UKC Maribor acquires certain equipment exclusively from one supplier in the surroundings of Ljubljana through rentals, which are actually fictitious. The contract does not provide for the return of equipment, which means that the UKC remains. It is interesting, however, that UKC Maribor overpayments 100 percent of the purchase value to the company mentioned over rent. Actually, it's an MRI, so it's called magnetic resonance. The State financed the purchase of an apparatus for EUR 1.5 million for UKC Maribor, in order to replace the old apparatus and, on the other hand, the hospital rents a fully identical Siemens in the same simultaneous tender for leases for EUR 2.7 million. I want to know: How can the hospital, on the one hand, buy from Siemens Slovenia an apparatus with all construction parts and maintenance for EUR 1.5 million and, on the other hand, rent a company near Ljubljana exactly the same Siemens machine without maintenance works for EUR 2.2 million? Is it true that construction works should be estimated at half a million euros to prepare a space to build an appliance in a newly built facility? Why does the hospital hire a 2.2 million-euro machine if the purchase is significantly cheaper? I ask for further clarification on the purchase or fictitious rental of a system for the digitisation of radiological material of EUR 9.5 million for UKC Maribor. How is it possible that UKC Maribor, once smaller than UKC Ljubljana, paid almost the same amount for such a system as UKC Ljubljana? As an interesting thing to say, the supplier is the same as the magnetic resonance, really interesting. Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u120	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you for asking Mr Ivanus. I don't know a specific case for UKC Maribor well enough. You need to know that even after the establishment act, every hospital in its business decisions is an autonomous and independent entity until there are some slightly more compelling reasons for irregularities, on which we can only initiate procedures. In this case, I will first ask the Council of the Institute to deal with this and then, if necessary, we will also decide on administrative supervision to see what is really going on and which of these data is being held and which one is not being held. Of course, every corruption, whether for rents, for purchases or whatever, is unacceptable in this work. Each of these debtors, each hospital must adhere to legislation, in particular in the field of public procurement, which foresees who the debtors are, is said to be the case with the hospital, procedures themselves, legal security, of course, if anything is wrong with the decisions. The trails here are pretty clear on their own. The Ministry shall not, until any similar decisions have been made by an individual institution, simply do not have powers in this area nor shall it be informed in advance of the procedures agreed upon by a particular hospital. As it is said, I will also make these statements, which, according to the record that I am about to receive, check and ask the world that this area or this issue is being addressed, obtain the relevant information from the hospital itself, from the administration and for further procedures, then we will decide on the position of the Institute's Council. Such statements, or usually anonymous ones, by not getting it in this case, although for some others they are mainly the basis for taking the matter seriously, but not immediately before checking for any additional action.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u122	Thank you, Chairman. I understood, you know, I understood, Mr. Secretary, what you were going to say or what would happen next. However, you mentioned there that you have no authority as Minister, which is not what I am most concerned with. What, then, can a minister do if he has neither eyes nor is your authority limited? Although I understand some logic, but if there are any irregularities, they have to be resolved. That's my opinion, and the other is nothing. On the other hand, I have three other questions: the price of consumer materials in health. I want to know: Are hospitals consistently controlling prices through Intravisor? Is it true that UKC Maribor voluntarily withdrew from the use of Intravisor, despite the fact that then Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc ordered the mandatory use of Intravisor to all institutions in 2017 prior to every invitation to tender? I also want to know: How much did the cost of consumer medical material increase in the last three years in UKC Maribor on average? Are you aware that those who point out mistakes are under pressure even by the failure of their working relationship? Do you know anything about this and will you do anything against those who practice it? That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u124	Yeah, now you've been asking a few more questions besides that basic one. I can answer in particular more generally. Thus, the ministry, through the founder of appointed Council members, may request the institution to deal with a particular problem that we are informed of, and this will be addressed in this case. And once again, based on the findings, then we can initiate administrative control. If there is a suspicion of a crime, the law enforcement authorities shall be informed thereof; otherwise, it is for these procedures, of course, from the start-up procedures themselves, the State Audit Commission, through which anyone who is deemed to be inadequately dealt with in the procurement system itself, may appeal. On the other hand, ex post controls are then carried out, given that there is a possibility for the Court of Auditors, the Commission to prevent corruption and so on. The UKC and the last management of the Clinical Centre itself, the director and also the supervisors, are committed, and they are also responsible for the decisions they make in the first place. In this case, of course, we can react when we detect some irregularities. You warned them. I think that's right. You got information from somewhere. I'm gonna ask them to move on, more than I can say at this point. It is true, however, that these procurement procedures are the ones where corruption is the most, and the prices themselves. We now include, and I think, that this will be prepared in this PKP-5 package, that prices will be based basically on each invitation to tender, based on prices in countries where they are lower, in particular Scandinavian countries which each contracting authority will be able to have and on this basis, of course, there should be no greater deviations from the price foreseen for the purchase of a particular article. I think this is a pretty good way to go, and I hope that she will also be supported in adopting this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, thank you for this information, including regarding the fifth anti-Korona law, where this should somehow be written down or presented. Basically, if it makes you feel any better, I will also give you a written question about what I have pointed out today, if you want or if there is enough information today, I don't know. I can give it to you in writing, so it'll be on paper. However, as regards all the answers that I have anticipated to be difficult to respond to, I will nevertheless make a proposal to hold a general debate in the National Assembly and to get as close as possible to the truth in health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u127	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 September 2020, in the framework of the votes. Andrea Zabret will ask the Minister for the Defence of Magi a question. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u128	Vice President, thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Dear Minister, a few days ago I received a question from a concerned citizen, from which I will sum up only a few essential things. Given that you and your client are betting on transparency, I also expect such an answer. It reads: “I am writing to reveal to you how the VLO, the Military Aviation Authority, purchases an additional commercial aircraft on behalf of the Government, because the army, by its own negligence, has lost Falcone, who is stuck in the service without engines. By the time Cessna was purchased, the government through the army would have reached a new or used commercial aircraft through the back door, under the pretext of securing state property. This is an auctioned DUTB aircraft in the first half of this year following the assignment of someone from the country – read by the government – as the only public auctioner to purchase EUR 700,000, which is 200 000 over the value of the same type of aircraft, with a pretense to cover the bank's claims. Following the purchase, the procedures for transferring the ownership of the aircraft to the DUTB and for collecting bids on the aircraft have been initiated. Well, this is where the interesting story begins. First thing, DUTB reportedly got an offer from the private to take over and manage the plane. According to the latest information, the DUTB is still not responding because they are waiting for the government to decide whether it will succeed with a blind manoeuvre to purchase an aircraft. And the second thing is that I heard an oral agreement came from the state summit that they should do nothing with the plane until it was reviewed and evaluated by the Ministry of Defence under the mandate of the VLO. Otherwise, a well-thought-out matter, where it is not possible to point to the Minister of Defence or to the government, who is responsible for this work. A three-day check was also carried out in July by the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. [[Incomprehensible]] They were also interested in the offer to a particular company, how much the service costs. They also informed themselves about the training of their flight crews, who should be prepared and trained by January 2021." Minister, all that I've taken from the letter, and that's not all, seriously suggests that the conclusion of the business is very close and that you're going to hide. That's why I'm asking you, Minister: Does this mean that the Ministry of Defence is seriously considering buying a specific aircraft, in the light of the budget's rebalancing, which reduces defence funds of almost 31 million? Please answer me with yes or no. If so, I wonder: What strategic defence document provides for the purchase of such an aircraft which is inappropriate for the purposes of the Slovenian Army? Has the relevant document been produced, such as a tactical study? What's the point of buying a plane? Why is the plane logged into a military register because we know what that means? Do you believe that the purchase of an aircraft is also a reasonable cost in view of the fact that the Republic of Slovenia already owns the aircraft? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u129	Sorry you're out of time. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u130	Dear Member Zabret, thank you very much for your question. My answer is no. The government's not buying a new business plane. All I regret is that if you had told me this question a little bit earlier, which you didn't, because I was preparing to buy a transport plane that the military is buying, if you would have told me in advance that you were interested in this, I could have served you with very precise information, because we're not hiding anything, so now I'm going to speak from memory. In particular, DURB seized one small commercial aircraft, which I remember has nine seats there, which is about a little smaller than the present Falcon. This aircraft was seized by DUTB, which, of course, is owned by the State, and by DUTB, an offer came if this aircraft were to be owned by the State if this aircraft were to be taken over by the Ministry of Defence. We've checked this thing, as you claim, holds the data, also sent a special team of pilots and people interested in such things to check the plane's condition. At the end of this review, it was found that the aircraft was in such a state that the Ministry of Defence would not want to take over it or would not want to be included in the fleet of military aircraft. However, it was never a matter of buying a commercial aircraft, but an agreement was made all the time whether it was possible to transfer this aircraft free of charge from DUTB to the Ministry of Defence. Once again, we have never discussed the purchase of a commercial aircraft, but the transfer of a commercial aircraft from DUTB, which is owned by 100 % of the state, to the Ministry of Defence, where it would be trained, if necessary, by pilots, and transferred to use. But given all the assessments that have been made, how much it would have taken to rebuild this aircraft, how much the regular use of this aircraft would have borne in the future, including maintenance and training of the crew, we finally made an assessment at the Ministry of Defence that this would not be taken into account. Why did you even think about these things? The matter must be put in context. The Ministry of Defence has a Falcon operating aircraft used for the transport of state authorities, and now, especially at a time when the lines between the different capitals of Europe are still very badly linked due to the coronacisation, this is practically the only reliable means of transport that ensures our national authorities to arrive at a particular location at a reasonable time. But we have had this bad luck that the Sharchas government is following a regular procedure so that it will not give this aircraft the misunderstandings to extensive maintenance and engine switching. And the first predictions were that this plane would return, so that Falcone would be back soon, not later than in early April, but then this thing would be extended because of all the problems, because of the difficulties in delivering spare parts, because of the extra parts that Falcon had not returned until August 14th. And at that time, we had many problems and problems for humanitarian flights, where we would and where we would have saved our citizens, even because of other flights needed by the state authorities. And at the time, the idea came to light that, however, the state of DUMB had some sort of aircraft that could be used. So the idea is from the time we were without Falcone, if we could start using this Cessna business plane as a matter of urgency. But, as it is said, after verification and after all the detailed analyses, it turns out that this aircraft is in such a state that it does not take into account the fact that the Ministry of Defence transferred it and then used it for the transport of state authorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Madam Members, do you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u132	Minister, thank you for your answer. If I understand correctly, your answer is no and you're not talking about buying or transferring this plane free of charge to the Ministry of Defence. Although the information I received is not exactly such and it is strange that the Ministry of Defence has already been informed about the training of its flight crews, which are also expected to be prepared and trained by January 2021. Here I note that, despite the fact that we have 8 pilots for this aircraft in Slovenia, and that, in the event of the bankruptcy of Adria, there is also a lot of very successful and highly qualified pilots who are not just growing on a tree, but that is not what our government is interested in. Above all, it was also that the General Staff of the Army was also interested in offering services to a particular company, in Maribor, in the cost of servicing engines and other services, despite the fact that the aircraft is already in the supply of the current service centre and that there is no need for any Slovenian intermediary to charge any of its intermediation fees. If you can tell me that this will not happen, because it seems to me that such an aircraft is not suitable for the Slovenian Army, that it is much more appropriate, as the profession agrees, and that you are also talking about the transport aircraft and at least two helicopters that our army certainly needs. I don't know if your answer is definitely no, then it probably wasn't meant for the presidency that's waiting for us. Unless the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as a civilian aircraft, has any other wishes for this purchase. You probably can't answer that. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u134	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. So, once again, buying this Cessna plane that was on DUTB was never an option. That's a fact. Pika. Shopping was never an option. Point two. However, it was an option of free transfer of this aircraft from DUTB to the Ministry of Defence. We talked about this at a time when we were out of Falcone, and we were thinking about the presidency, and we were really talking about these things because Falcone wasn't there, and we were cut off from the world. DUTB had an aircraft that we were told could fly immediately and provide some communication with the outside world or with other countries and that the hours of the aircraft are much lower than the hours of the Falcona flight. And we, as a good master of this thing, have checked everything thoroughly. That's why someone told you that from the General Staff of the Slovenian Army they checked everything, the books, the documents, the cost of changing engines, the cost of maintenance, the cost of training the crew, the cost of Hangaring. We have gone through all these elements so that we can rationally and responsibly answer the question whether the meaningful introduction of this aircraft into the fleet of military aircraft used, say, for the transport of state authorities. And finally, after all these flight checks, we found that it's not worth it, that it's reckless. Even more, now listen well, we even checked the price of this plane on the market. And in the end, we found that it would be easier for us, as the Ministry of Defence, if we wanted to, to buy a well-maintained aircraft of this type on the market than to go through all the reconstruction procedures, to rebuild this aircraft. And so I said, the decision is no, and the Department of Defense of this aircraft will not take effect. What the DUTB will continue to do with it is their business and you have to ask them this, but I hope you understand that in the light of the good lord we had to examine all the details accurately. Because, finally, we have to act in a sense of rationality for the whole country. And that's why she made that decision. But like I said, if this thing were to be announced in advance, we'd have all the dates exactly when they were and so on. So what you've pointed out today is a little bit delayed information that came to you because we stopped the procedures a while ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u135	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] I have to give you my word, I apologize. You have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u136	Minister, thank you for your answer. Given that you have answered me, I will not now request a general debate at one of the following meetings. But given that you have some more information, I'd like it in writing. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u137	I apologize, Madam Members, then you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure and I must take your word. Let's move on. Tadeja Šuštar will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simoni Kustec Lipicer, which is between 12.50 and 15.30 and from 19:00 onwards. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u138	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Since the Minister is away, I'd like her to answer in writing. But I'm going to ask you a question. I want to know: What is the position of Minister of Education on the Spaceab programme, which could be carried out as a circle in Slovenian primary schools? It's a program where children learn about space, astronomy and space astronomy. But they may also have a unique opportunity to make their attempt at an international space station. I want to know: Is the Minister aware of the Spaceab project and is he already planning any further activities in this regard? Is it possible for the circle to begin in the second half of this school year or at the latest in the second year? I thank you very much for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u139	Thank you very much. You will receive a written reply. Only Bevk will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku, who is also absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The Slovenian Post Office is an economic company with 100 % ownership of the Republic of Slovenia whose main activity is the provision of universal postal services, which includes the reception, direction, transfer and delivery of written and packaged consignments in internal and international postal transport, the provision of IT services, cash services and the sale of commercial goods. The mission of the company is to ensure the quality, competitive and reliable provision of services and the sale of commercial goods throughout the Republic of Slovenia. Despite what has been stated in the last period, we record the closure of post offices in Slovenia, including in Lower Idrija, where business premises have also been sold, shortening their working time and transforming them into so-called contract mail. In the belief that there is sufficient closure of the post office, an initiative has been tabled by the Postal Workers' Union in accordance with the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative on the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postal Services. Therefore, I ask the distinguished Mr Zdravek Restorska, the competent minister: What is your position on closing post offices in Slovenia? Do you advocate accessibility to all postal services for all citizens and not just the profitability of Post Slovenia? If so, what will you do as Minister to ensure this? Does he keep information that according to the plan of optimisation of his activities instead of 528 post offices, the Post Office of Slovenia should maintain only 217 of its offices? Could the envisaged changes in optimization have a negative impact on the position of employees and thus, for example, the risk of reducing the number of letters? What is your position on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Postal Services Act by the Postal Workers Union? As I know that the Minister has answered these questions many times both in the previous and in this government, and in most cases his answers were very similar or the same, I expect him to go deep into these questions and make a positive move this time. However, I ask that the minister, because he is a percentage today, responds to one of the first regular meetings of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec will ask the Minister for the Defence of Magi. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Vice President. Minister, when you passed an investment law in the Slovenian Army in the next six years in the government, you have somehow accompanied him with a message that this law will go on a regular basis, that there will naturally be a broad public debate about it, and that you are also striving to be as widely accepted as possible in the sense that we are talking about it. The law came into Parliament, and then your New Slovenia Group, the New Slovenia Group, made a request for an urgent meeting, which then hastened the committee in some way and should be adopted in September. We are now in this session at the second reading of this law, but it will not be possible to have a third reading, because we have tabled a proposal to Parliament in the Group of Levi to call a consultation referendum on this issue. Until the National Assembly decides whether, indeed, the Republic of Slovenia should, at this time at all, in a time of great deficit in the budget and even in the face of the health and economic crisis, really commit these 780 million to the weapons planned by this law or be directed elsewhere. In fact, my question on this is very simple. In view of this past experience of this speedy procedure at the beginning of the examination of this law, which would otherwise have to begin its parliamentary course in October, I am interested in: Are you striving to have the third reading of this law done by the end of September, as was understood in some public suggestion or when you said you wanted the law adopted by the end of September? Can we expect a proposal for an advisory referendum to be first considered in accordance with all business deadlines at the first and next regular sessions and only then a third reading of the Slovenian Army Investment Act?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u144	Dear Member, thank you very much for your question. Let me give you some facts from which you will see that this debate has been going on for a very long time, that it has a very long beard and that things are going very slowly. In the previous mandate, the Government attempted to resolve the problem of taking on multiannual financial commitments when amending the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019. However, at the time, a solution was proposed for the condition of the Left, then yours and your present parliamentary group, excluded from the law in parliamentary consideration of the law. Thus, at the end of 2019 you for the first time prevented the previous Sharčev government from providing some long-term funding for the needs of the Slovenian Army. That's the first information we need to know. On 7 November 2019, the Defence Committee adopted a decision proposing to the Ministry of Defence to examine by the end of the year the possibility of multi-annual financing of investments in key Slovenian Armed Forces development programmes and, on this basis, a proposal to regulate the implementation and financing of key Slovenian Armed Forces equipment projects. So the Ministry of Defence is doing exactly what the Defence Committee adopted on 7 November 2019, so there was no spirit or hearing about this current government. So we draw continuity again from what the Sharq government used to do. If we move forward, the White Paper in Chapter 4.2, these are military capabilities and military infrastructure, stipulates that the law of major modernisation projects of the Slovenian Armed Forces will be prepared with the appropriate legislation for the implementation of key equipment projects of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The white book was also accepted by the government of Charcé, and this is exactly what we are doing with the white book. Now we are going to the exact chronology of the adoption of the law, which was made on the basis of everything that the previous government has proposed, spoken and adopted in these documents. I'm 3 June, this is now more than 3 months ago, announced publicly, openly this law. Then, on 11 June 2020, we also published this law on the E-democracy portal. That's more than three months ago. On 24 June, this law was adopted at a meeting of the Government. The day before, you must not forget, you in Levica requested a joint meeting of the Defence Committee and the Health Committee, where these 780 million were also discussed. Then, at your request, that is to say, at the request of the Left, the first hearing in the National Assembly on July 16th, when all Members could discuss the subject in this house – that was July 16th. On 3 September 2020, the second hearing was held by the Defence Committee. Here you're always talking about how the process has accelerated here. Hec is merely in the fact that this committee was convened on 3 September to allow a second hearing to take place at the September session. In short, things are kind of following each other in a normal way. On 29 September, a new debate is envisaged in Parliament and another is under consideration. So things will go as planned. On 6 October, it is then envisaged that a new debate will be held on the consultative referendum called by you. I will be very happy if this law is passed before 1. 1. 2021. This is at least my goal, because then the new financial year begins and because this law also applies to 2021, it is in some ways the target date that we want this law to be adopted. Otherwise, you see, you can also agree that as a minister and this government we are doing exactly what the previous Sharčev government has done or what my predecessor Minister Erjavec has done and in some way accepted, we are now putting these things into practice. But you can also see that you've been sticking some fingers in the splinter all the time, and you're always trying to reject these procedures in every government. It is clear to me that your political objective is to abolish the Slovenian Army, but you must say this because things are clear and there will be no problem. We're trying to work in line with [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Documents, your goal is to abolish the army. We are here on different shores, and this is an essential message that we must all understand and try to keep working in this spirit.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u145	Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u146	Thank you. I listened to you carefully to this conclusion, and I was also willing to disagree with some things. Being left against the army is a lie and your manipulation, Minister, and you know it. We are not against the military, but we are against pointless investments or purchases of weapons that do not primarily serve the Slovenian Army as an authority that must serve the defence of the country, also in accordance with the Constitution. But that's not the point of my question, my question was whether, given that you've accelerated the process at this stage, we expect this in the next few days. To correct you because you misquoted earlier because we called the first hearing, and this is a parliamentary practice to then hold one session of the law, so that the regular parliamentary hearing should take place in October rather than September, as it happened and your call for an urgent meeting of the Defence Committee with this law on the agenda was to speed up the procedure, but okay, this has happened. What I'm interested in right now is maybe you've already answered me when you said you hoped that the law would be passed by 1. 1. 2021, however, is significantly simpler: Will we wait for the request for a consultation referendum to run out of ordinary business hands, or can we expect New Slovenia to speed up this request and, for example, call an urgent meeting for this item on the agenda?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u147	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u148	As I have honestly and frankly admitted to you, the purpose of this law is to be adopted by 1. 1. 2021, but at this time all business possibilities are to do things in a reasonable way. I'm not going to force anything at any cost to make such a rush. I don't care if the law was passed in December, November or October, it's only essential to me that it's adopted by 1. 1. 2021. In the meantime, I think there will be plenty of time to discuss. Last but not least, from 7 November, there is a kind of public debate going on, until this law is passed, a public debate in such or otherwise form will take place one year, if I say on another 15 years of supplement when we talk about these things, so that there has been more than enough time for public debate. Once again, I am saying that I understand your political position, it can be legitimate, I do not have a problem with Levica advocating the abolition of the Slovenian Army, nor would we be the only political party in the world that advocates such a thing. In the world, you have quite a few radical left-wing parties advocating the cessation of an army, for a demilitarized area, and finally you have countries without an army. This is, in my opinion, a purely legitimate political position that I do not object to. The left is for the abolition of the Slovenian Army. The only thing that bothers me is that you're trying to wrap it up in some cellophane, so you say, "faith, we're not meant to end it, but we are." [[…]] But that means that time, opportunity and resources for the Slovenian Army are never right, never a good time, they're always too big, but that's another consequence, or if I paraphrase the former Prime Minister a little bit, I'd say that you're kind of like a farmer who has a cow and says, "Look, the cow is alive, it gives milk, why we can now buy hay and build barns, and the cow lives and will survive." This is your position, but the question is how long can he live without food and without a roof over his head. Not for a long time. That is why this position of yours is long-term lethal for the Slovenian Army, and therefore I justifiably claim that Levica is in favour of abolishing the Slovenian Army. Once again, I have no problem with this, but we must be honest and honest that your position is such that you are in favour of lifting, and my position and job and service is to provide the Slovenian Army with the means to survive.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u150	Thank you, Vice President. I'm making this proposal. I think I have to justify it, too. If you respect another political party's political position, it is also right not to interpret and speak on behalf of another political party. Once again, this comes from the mouth of a member of the Left: Levica is not for the abolition of the Slovenian Army. Pika. So I'm asking you to stop making these allegations. But it is against pointless investments, investments that are by no means for Slovenian soldiers, for example, are against investments in armors, and the previous minister was, of course, no secret, for the construction of a medium battalion group operating under the NATO Pact and serving primarily for missions abroad. Is that right? Here. These armored men, we have seen, have also ever been stranded on some roadway, not fit to drive on our roads, and are not fit to defend the country. That's one thing. The question that can be legitimate is whether it makes sense that we are a member of the NATO Pact. We have countries that are not NATO members of Europe. This is another issue and we can debate it, not about it, whether the military is or not. It's completely depressed. It is, however, at a time when you are showing with the current rebalance of 4.2 billion minus in the state budget, where practically hospitals are crying for stitches, where health institutions are crying for stitches, where schools are crying for stitches, because there are not enough teachers and other staff to implement the recommendations needed to control the epidemic, then that is the problem. Then the problem is 780 million. And we're not talking about 780 million for boots, for clothes and stuff. We're talking, as I said before, over 600 million euros in military equipment, military machinery, aircraft, helicopters and armor, if I take out guns and all that, let's just say guns are something a soldier has to have. So that's our concern in this case. I've been asking the question whether you're going to rush this procedure or not. Now you are saying that this law should be adopted by the end of this year, which is okay, perfectly legitimate, but the question, crucially, is not whether it is for the military or not, but what kind of army we want and, above all, whether we are for committed people, whether we are to invest more in health, education, research, development, economy if you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 September 2020, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Ivan Hršak will ask the Minister for Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister! Media legislation is one of the more difficult areas, as it requires dialogue between different interlocutors. Nor is it possible to overlook the need for media legislation to be amended and adapted to time requirements in order to develop technologies. A major draft of the amendment of media legislation was revealed by three novels, which were 15. Seven. 2020 data for public consultation. Here we are talking, of course, about the novels of the Law on Media, the Law on STA and the Law on RTV Slovenia, which were prepared by the Ministry of Culture. What was surprising was the very short time of public treatment of this media law for only a few days. Therefore, in the Desus Group, we immediately strongly protested against such a short time limit for the examination of legislation. In fact, the amended laws are by no means a minor change, but a substantive and extremely important innovation that would affect the entire media space. Such a decision was then found to be correct, as the public concerned examined and gave its reasoned opinion in detail during the extended period of public examination of media law. We are all aware that changes are mainly necessary in the RTV Slovenia Act, so we need to find a dialogue. The financial difficulties faced by the public service of RTV Slovenia have been repeatedly exposed. There is no doubt a great deal of pressure on the Director General of RTV Slovenia, Igor Kadunc, but without the right dialogue between the competent ministry and, of course, the leadership of RTV Slovenia will not make real progress. In the Desus Group, we stress that media independence must not be questioned. Above all, there must be no interference with editorial policy, but we can appeal to the highest possible political neutrality in reporting on daily policy. Minister, that's why I'm asking you: What are the further plans to address the challenges in the field of media law, particularly in the RTV Slovenia Act? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u153	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking. In the first place, the Member pointed out that it is dialogue that leads to some conclusions or to a society that is open and at the same time allows us to come to some conclusions in the dialogue. I agree with that, of course, but I would like to say at the outset, because you say that Mr. Director is under a lot of pressure – yes, because Mr. Director is, and that's why he's there. He is the Director-General of the Service and must accept all those environments that co-create some image that he must carry out in an organized manner and do so successfully. Of course, I think it is a failure, as has been shown many times, recently in Parliament itself when the report of the Supervisory Board was presented here. The other thing is that the media must be independent. This is especially the case with RTV Slovenia, because other media are dependent, and all of them, because everyone is in the private hands of such or different people and independent media in fact is not in our possession, except Radiotelevision Slovenia, which should be, but I see so much self-voluntary that it is difficult to say that they are independent. But this independence should also be expressed in someone's intervention in editorial policy, which you say should not come to this. I don't know if there's been any interference on any part of the government with editorial policy, or whether anything has happened to anyone, or whether anyone has ever telephoned or tried to influence RTV Slovenia, the director or anyone else, but I do know that this medium works extremely unprofessionally and biasedly. Last but not least, when I was looking at purely non-politically, I was watching Saturday morning MMC and there was writing something that showed a complete lack of professionalism, human empathy and awareness of what a great success was – the title of a contribution was, it seems to me, “The cook in full, Roglič paled as a death”. Listen, if these people who write this didn't realize what it meant, what it really was, what it meant, what it meant, what happened now in the Tour de France, if they don't know it, and with such an address they equip an article, listen, that means mental disintegration is perfect and non-professionalism. And these cases, if you want, I'll give you 30 because I have everything written down. So these are non-political, if political, it would be something else. Good. As far as dialogue is concerned, I think that dialogue must be about this public law, but rather than between the Ministry of Culture and RTV, I think that dialogue must be between the founder and RTV, and the founder is the National Assembly. And this is happening here in different ways, so that the RTV report comes in, that the Supervisory Board reports exactly what we know about, and that, of course, the National Assembly and its bodies decide on these things. However, there must be dialogue, dialogue should be reached in order to clarify, in fact, these legislative proposals that you have mentioned, in as wide a public debate as possible. I have to say that some of the discussions were, however, that even this house was avoiding dialogue in the sense that it had already been twice thought to have come to — what would you say? – debates, broad debates on these changes, or this media legislation in the State Council, has been interrupted twice, which I think – what would you say? - That's pretty convenient. Second thing. Dialogue is generated through public debate, through the Committee on Culture, if you want, through inter-sectoral coordination, through plenary sessions, through public presentations of opinions, through the Council of State. This is all a matter and a place of dialogue. And, of course, the Ministry of Culture in the dialogue that you are now, I don't know how, Mr Director, when he's making a loss, I don't know how he thinks – the dialogue is that we come to someone else's direction, probably. He thinks that dialogue will come through by talking to me about the economy and the economic situation which, of course, leads to a very weak situation. Because he has to drive the house with the things that all citizens in the country offer him through self-contribution. In view of this, he must plan the house and manage it properly. That's a lot of money. Compared to the Ministry of Culture, it is very large, not least they have 2 000 200 employees, which is 40% of the municipalities [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Your time has run out. Let's move on. Matjaž Germany will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for John the Bricker King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, good afternoon, welcome! We're asking the same question again. Last time we talked about this was in June. In fact, I am particularly concerned with the issues of the social centre in Vrtojba, of course also of all others throughout Slovenia. For we all know that, whether it was a left or a right government, we have created a state in the last 15 years when the state has not built one home for the elderly. However, I am exhibiting a specific social center in Vrtojba. Why? For two reasons. One of the two homes for the elderly, which is practically built, never completed, is in an area where it is said that the circus is 2,000 applicants for care. I'm talking about a wider mountain area. The second reason is that due to the current problem and in particular to the consistency of certain policies and policies, the completion of this home, namely the social centre in Vrtojba, is even included in the coalition contract in Osilnica. In recent months, we have had quite a few discussions on this subject. I must admit that, despite the fact that I am the opposition Member and you are the coalition minister, I believe in your well-intentionedness and I know that you are engaged in this direction in order to complete at least this social centre in Vertojba. So far, we have had two options, in one part to provide budgetary resources to complete, in the other part, the alternative was to complete or upgrade this facility through the concessionaire and give it to the state concessionaire or anyone else who would already be in charge. Given the needs, we are in a situation where politics can no longer afford this disgrace, that in fact the almost completed facility is not dedicated to use. Dear Minister, please – you have already told me – to inform the general public where we are today by solving the problem of social centres, home for the elderly, I am specifically talking about the social center in Vrtojba. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you very much, distinguished German Member. As we discussed in June, and as I assured you then, there is still concern for the elderly, comprehensive care for the elderly and, in this context, sufficient capacity to respond to the urgent demand of older persons for accommodation in adequate accommodation in nursing homes, one of the three key priorities of the Ministry of Labour during my ministry. I can say that, given the situation you mentioned, so that we have not built any home for the elderly in Slovenia for more than a decade, indeed the needs of large, enlarged covidproblematics or coronary disease have exacerbated the situation, as it has shown that some existing homes do not actually have adequate space to ensure the decent and safe life of older people. At the Ministry this year, we immediately launched procedures to provide additional accommodations in the homes of older citizens as soon as possible, which will be ensured, on the one hand, by intensively drawing on European funds, through the REACT fund, and on the other hand by granting concessions, as you yourself have already mentioned. Before I go specifically to the Garden, may I mention that there is an invitation to tender for 20 day centres and 10 temporary accommodation centres all over Slovenia. I think the applicants are getting answers. There are 21 million European funds available here, which is part of providing additional capacity for Community services and deinstitutionalisation. On the other hand, as you have already mentioned, there is an invitation to tender for an additional thousand 100 seats in nursing homes. Last but not least, there is this coalition commitment in the coalition contract to build five homes and complete two homes, the particular Garden and the Basilica. There is not yet a complete decision on the Social Centre in Vertojba, which is why I cannot give you the timelines yet, but as we have already discussed in June and in the meantime, two options are open, as you mentioned. It is true, however, that on the other hand, intensive meetings and coordination with the Bank's Claims Management Company are taking place with the DUTB, which currently owns this facility, which first finds that the facility is in extremely poor condition, that the electrical installations are destroyed, that the heating needs to be restored, that the water supply needs to be tested, but that there is an interest of potential concessionaires in purchasing and arranging this facility. The advantage of this option is to arrange the entire social centre, this means a home for older and protected dwellings, which are also part of this. In June, we both found that there were two facilities. In the first building there are 120 beds for home protection and in the second building there are 38 apartments provided. I believe that, given your words in June and now the main objective, our common main objective is to ensure that a) the collapse of these buildings is halted, b) to provide quality accommodation for those who urgently need care in their homes or in their homes. We are pursuing both objectives, and I can assure you that we will respect the coalition treaty. And there's something else I'd like to point out in this area when we're dealing with this. Due to the location of this centre, it is extremely important that we also protect the interest of Slovenian citizens waiting for accommodation in these homes, so that it does not happen to anyone at any time. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u159	Sorry, Minister. Time's up. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u160	Minister, thank you very much for your proper cooperation and a very extensive response. So if I understand, as we both know, we have two options. One is, I'll say, a public part, and the other is with private assistance, even if it's state-owned. When I talk about the policy of the Social Democrats, it is our closest option to being a public institution, to be a public institution, even for the reasons you mentioned – because of the location, proximity to the border and possible competitiveness or not the services themselves in this facility. Allow me just one more piece of information for you, which will allow you a wider room of manoeuvre, I speak mainly in a political sense. I myself have tabled an amendment, worth €4 million, I am talking about an amendment to the budget rebalancing, which, with the support of those coalition parties that should be more sensitive to this issue in the first place – I am talking about you, New Slovenia, and also Desus – I believe that together we can provide funds that would be budgetary, to complete this facility and thus enable, I will say, the establishment or accession of the facility to a public institution, i.e. an already existing or newly existing entity, which would then allow the facility to actually be completed by public means. If not, let there be some compromise for us too, that the possibility of a solution is also through the award of a concession. It is precisely because we can facilitate your space of manoeuvre, including within the coalition, that we have tabled this amendment, which I hope will receive support, that I will say, at least two more coalition parties that have at least a slightly higher exposure in the programme to those policies that touch the elderly and the inhabitants of our country. I thank you for this moment, but next month I will raise this question again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you very much, distinguished Member Matjaž German. As both of us have found, the Ministry's main objective is to ensure that the entire Social Centre of Vertajba is as fully regulated as possible. We are somehow following the desire that at home or provided apartments do not resolve phasedly or in pieces separately, but both together, the whole complex, so that after years of decay the matter is really settled. Many people there have already lost hope that this will be resolved, but I think that we can show in this mandate that we are serious about our plans and actions and that we will also do what is stated in the coalition agreement. We will ensure that this coalition commitment is implemented as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Ambassador Miha Kordish will ask the Minister of Public Administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, chairman. The implementation of forms of direct democracy in this country, such as the right to a referendum, requires the verification of its own signature. This takes place — all those who have ever signed their signatures — in the administrative unit before the window, along with the official. However, in the context of the covida-19 epidemic, access to these windows, to these officials, is severely reduced because they cannot afford to give a certified hand-written signature as it has been in the past. In particular, the situation in the area of the Administrative Unit of Ljubljana, which goes through the reorganisation in which the exhibitions of the Centre, Moste, Šiška and Rudnik were abolished. It is said that for 300,000 people and residents of Ljubljana it is possible to verify signatures only in two locations. Two officials, two windows – we can imagine how difficult it is to actually guarantee democracy under these conditions. In addition, there is currently a collection of signatures for several draft laws, including the Postal Services Act, on the initiative of the Postal Workers' Union, which seeks to ensure the financing of universal postal services and prevent further closure of businesses, and you all know that we have announced a referendum against the loss of money, 780 million for weapons in Levica. Mr. Minister, I would like to know about this: How does the measures to prevent the spread of communicable diseases affect the process of verifying an official’s own-time signature? In doing so, I should point out that this is a constitutional right set out in Articles 90 and 88 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I also want to know: Where can citizens sign their signatures for the purpose of what I have just stated? How many officials can citizens sign from are available at the locations on Tobacco 5 and Linhart 13, according to Ljubljana, which is the most risky, most critical, in the only two exhibitions left open? What is the nationality of citizens to an individual official before whom a signature can be certified on the Ljubljana Administrative Unit, especially with regard to other administrative units in Slovenia? Will you allow more locations or officials in the municipality of Ljubljana to exercise the constitutional right to a people's initiative and legislative referendum? Will you take measures to preserve democratic standards while sharpening measures to prevent the spread of communicable diseases? How will you ensure that in practice the constitutional right set out in Articles 88 and 90 of the Constitution will be maintained, subject to possible restrictions on access to officials? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u166	Thank you. Even to the honourable Member to raise this issue. I am pleased that the answer will be so that it can satisfy all those who might wish to give such support to a legislative proposal. To begin with, on the basis of this question, I have obtained some statistics, such as the Medicinal Products Act, from 1. 9. there is an opportunity to give support, to date 541 in Ljubljana, which is 41 per day, and I must point out that this also includes those support that has been provided via electronic channels. So we can see that this is absolutely possible in an eight-hour working room. You have mentioned that this access to democratic procedures is not so easy, but I must point out that during this epidemic the availability or use of digitally qualified certificates has increased, so that I believe that access is now even easier than it used to be. For example, for the Postal Services Act that you mentioned, Ljubljana, which you say was the most critical, in the fifth place in Slovenia after its support, was 92 in 14 working days. So if we look at it, it's like six a day, and it's definitely something that one person on the window does without any difficulty. Again, here I am, including those supported by electronics. For example, in the whole of Slovenia, the most of these 161 were delivered in Montenegro, which is 11.5 per day, which is also enough. In the context of these procedures, the administrative units have recorded some other support. For example, there is no one in Ljubljana to support this in the whole of Slovenia 49. Support was collected against criminal taxation, also in Ljubljana, not a single supporter, mostly in Maribor, 23, that is less than two per day. These are statistics that clearly show that access to these democratic standards has by no means been curtailed. What I would like to stress, however, is that the reorganisation of the Ljubljana Administrative Unit started in 2015 on the MOL initiative based on the user experience of citizens and citizens, and by no means because of this government or its structure. What I would also like to point out is that the new way of working on information from the field is very appropriate for citizens and citizens, because they do not need, if I say so, to interest the whole place to do certain things, but they do so in all two locations. As regards measures to prevent the dissemination of covida-19, except for the washing of deadlines, distances, desired procurement and, as it is said, the promotion of electronic access to services of any other measure has not been and in no way affected the procedure for the provision of voter support, so that the exercise of the constitutional right to the legislative initiative referred to in Article 88 of the Constitution and the right to a legislative referendum has not been violated. In doing so, we must not forget that the voter's support can be given to any administrative unit, is not linked to the place of its permanent residence, even at any local office that can give it away. So I would like to point out that, despite the difficult situation, public officials are doing their tasks very properly and we need to come from facts that are very clear here. Therefore, there is no need, but I stress that if it turns out otherwise, we will adjust the number, as we were flexible during and after the epidemic, to adapt the number of public officials performing individual tasks by ensuring all democratic standards and all constitutional rights of the parties. Once again, I take advantage of this opportunity to invite all users or stakeholders to obtain a qualified digital certificate and submit such applications electronically, as you know, those eligible voters can also broadcast this in hospitals, nursing homes, by post in Slovenia, by post abroad, at diplomatic and consular offices and also at their home under special conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. The collection of 40,000 certified signatures in support of a subsequent legislative referendum within a month is no cough. Of course, this is even more difficult if adequate infrastructure is not provided, sufficient windows and so on, allowing people to broadcast their signatures as elegantly as possible. We cannot rely on digital certificates and digital signatures in a company that has virtually failed to achieve 100 % of the information literacy. If we want to carry out democracy, direct democracy, we need physical signatures or the capacity to collect these signatures on administrative units. Mr. Minister, you've mentioned quite a few statistics, and I'm interested in those numbers and statistics that I've already asked you about. I'm specifically interested in: How many officials can the residents verify are available at the locations on Tobacco 5 and Linhart 13? I have already pointed out that there are two locations for the entire Ljubljana Administrative Unit because a bunch of them have closed down. I also want to know: What is the nationality of citizens to an individual official who can be authenticated with his own signature at EU Ljubljana with regard to other administrative units after Slovenia? I think you have answered the question whether you will allow more locations in Ljubljana or more officials. Somehow you haven't given a single answer that you're going to do this now, but you said that you're willing to organise things a little bit if it turns out that the administrative unit can't swallow a certain amount of people. But for you to collect certified signatures for some referendum, you have a month. You just can't wait for an official vertical to bend and reorganize if you only have one month to get 40,000 certified signatures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u170	Thank you. Unfortunately, it follows from the above that the honourable Member did not follow this official vertical, which in these times was turning significantly faster than a unit for a month. I must point out that if the need is expressed and once again, we come from statistics, not from theoretical needs and stories, from statistics, it turns out that we don't need it if we do, it's not a matter of a month, it's a matter of hours, if you want. [[…]] At the same time, I would point out that it is not true that in Ljubljana this can only be given in two places, there are three cities, i.e. the administrative affairs sector on Tobacco Street, the business building of the Ljubljana Administrative Unit, this is the new building in Linhartova, the local office of Medvod, that is in Medvod, then we have from now on at least once a week the Local Office of Dobrova, the Local Office of Dol near Ljubljana, the Local Office of Ig, the Local Office of Internal Gorica and the Local Office of Velika Lašče. But the key is that if the need is shown, we will adjust it, and of course very quickly. So far, this has not happened, and statistics, as it were said, are being monitored and people are trained to do so. However, it seems to me that the private sector experience is the most uneconomical to take stock of what might happen, to take resources, so we have them there on stock and elsewhere on foot. We're just doing what it's for. So far, no need for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, chairman. In only half a year, the third government of Janez Janša saw the endless number of forms of violation of the Slovenian Constitution, the denial of democratic procedures, the ignoring of legislation, the rules and regulations as if they did not exist. And, of course, when cities are being demolished in administrative units in the context of the Coronavirus epidemic – and in Ljubljana in particular with regard to the reduction in the number of cities through the reorganisation – worries me. I am concerned that the exercise of democratic rights will not be possible for citizens and citizens referred to in Articles 88 and 90 of the Constitution unless basic infrastructure is taken into account as a permanent public good. We cannot rely on the promises of this government or its ministers that they are flexible, that if there is a need, then the number of places where people can confirm their signature will give their support for this or that thing, for this or that referendum, the law, whatever, will increase. We simply cannot take the government seriously in such promises. I will be very happy if Mr Minister puts me on a lie and a changed situation allowing people to participate widely in the award of certified signatures, when the procedure for a referendum on arms purchases is launched, 780 million euros is intended by this government with a specific law to use these weapons, and not to view as a changed situation the first day of the marriage period within which 40,000 signatures are to be collected within a good month. If it adapts then, if it reorganises then, if only then, as you say, the Minister, proves otherwise that it is necessary to strengthen administrative units to enable people to exercise their democratic rights, it will be too late. People will stay in line, they will come in line, they will not come in line, and what can happen is that there will be no adequate number of signatures, for our referendum initiative or for any other referendum initiative, there will be no need for signatures of support to the Postal Services Act handed over by the Postal Workers' Union and with which they want to ensure that post offices remain open and do not close further. All of this can happen if it waits until the last moment and if the official vertical, which is a condition for the implementation of democracy, is not strengthened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u173	Mr Member, you have not explicitly defined yourself until the procedural proposal. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, I'm sorry, but that would suggest we do it. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Edward Paulič will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravek Počvalšku, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u174	Thank you, Chairman. Unfortunately, Mr Minister is indeed absent, but I will still ask the question because it seems important to me. The question concerns the system of vouchers, and I am not talking about tourist vouchers, but about vouchers intended for small and medium-sized enterprises. Simplification is a system for co-financing certain enterprise projects with which companies can increase their competitiveness and competences. The priority of this measure is speedy, but it is to co-finance projects up to EUR 10,000 per single voucher. The company can benefit from three vouchers per year and 60 % of the value of the investment is co-financed. If I list some of these vouchers: a voucher for raising digital competences, a voucher for digital marketing, a voucher for cybersecurity and so on, there are 14 vouchers in total. In view of the current situation in the world of the companies, these vouchers or co-financing are still needed. I was approached by quite a few entrepreneurs who warned me that these funds were no longer available. And really I checked it out at the Slovenian Enterprise Fund and got information that assets with 1. Seven. 2020 is no longer available. Once again, I think it is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises to come up with a rapid action, as these sheepdogs are. That is why my question to Mr Restoring is as follows. In view of the 2020 rebalancing – although I have looked at it in detail, I must say that it is to some extent imprudent and I have failed to understand whether the additional funding for the co-financing of projects in the balance sheet is involved or not. My questions to Mr. Restoring are: Are the additional funding for the co-financing of projects included in the budget balance sheet or not? What measures does the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology intend to strengthen the competitiveness of our small and medium-sized enterprises?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u175	Thank you very much for your question. Do you want a reply in writing or orally at the next meeting? Lip. Thank you. We're moving on. The next is Mrs Eva Irgle, asking the Minister of Environment and the Magi area. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr. Secretary! A recent amendment to the regulation setting out an environmental impact assessment has been published, and I must say that I already feel some positive effects of this Regulation, particularly when we are talking about procedures moving faster. However, there are still open dilemmas and some uncertainties. Here I would like to highlight a concrete example of the project in the Municipality of Ajdovščina, namely the construction of the water pipeline Col-Visni-Subregion. At this point, the Ministry of Environment and Space, which is run by you, is the one that runs the so-called integral process of obtaining a building permit. However, since, as has already been said, the Regulation on the classification of facilities for which an environmental impact assessment procedure is to be carried out has changed, this investment no longer falls within the scope of such facilities. The locals of this area would like the process of obtaining a building permit to be completed as soon as possible so that the water pipeline project can be started. This is what we would like in the way that an integrated procedure is no longer needed, but to be applied to an administrative unit, in which case to the Ajdovščina Administrative Unit, to obtain a building permit. Then, of course, this is also a condition for the submission of the full application for cohesion funds. Mr. Minister, I believe that there are similar projects in Slovenia that have taken place in this situation, and I am interested in: How do you assess that it is necessary to act in cases where an integrated procedure is already initiated, as in the case of the Col-Visni-Subsidium, in order to obtain a building permit and the environmental impact assessment is no longer necessary? I thank you in advance for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u178	Dear Member, thank you very much for this question. When I came to the Ministry of the Environment, in fact, a number of problems with extremely long-term procedures related to environmental impact assessment, previous procedures, waiting types were also a few years old, and investors were, of course, very weak will, especially such investors, municipalities financing these projects from European funds, because these projects were questioned because of the limited window of opportunity for use. Environmental impact assessments are regulated by the European Directive and we are, according to our good old practice, I think, poorer, increasingly macho than necessary, and of course we have made some things even more acute ten times, and let it be a matter of course, we have prescribed a variety of procedures, even if they do not require this European directive. Thus, we have found that in the regulation, by which we classify facilities for which environmental impact assessments are to be made, we have, of course, also prescribed for facilities, various water lines, even smaller water lines, the need for environmental impact assessments or so-called prior procedures, although there is no serious substantive reason for this. Therefore, by amending the Regulation on the classification of facilities for which an environmental impact assessment is required, we have brought these criteria to some reasonable European level. And so it is no longer necessary for this specific water supply in the Municipality of Vipava, mentioned by you, to produce an environmental impact assessment, even though this was necessary under the old regulation. In view of the need for an environmental impact assessment under the old regulation, the investor had to apply for a building permit from the Ministry of Environment and Space, since only the Ministry of Environment and Space is competent to issue construction permits in the so-called integral process, this is in the process of obtaining both a building permit and an environmental impact assessment and an environmental consensus. Therefore, since it is no longer necessary for these facilities to be acquired, the simple way is to withdraw this application is to apply for a building permit in an integrated procedure, to submit an application to an administrative unit, because it is no longer necessary to carry out an assessment and is the competent administrative unit in Vipava, and that the procedure to which the Ministry has brought this role is simply transferred to the administrative unit so that it does not repeat all the administrative actions that have been necessary so far. This is said to be true if, for example, other opinions have already been obtained in this process, these opinions are also taken into account in this administrative procedure. So the way to obtaining a building permit will be considerably shorter and faster. But it's a good thing you asked. Thank you, too, my dear lady, for expressing herself — what would you say? — this concern especially for the supply of drinking water in the home because such and similar questions are received from everywhere and perhaps this answer is a tool for those in a similar situation today. And maybe because I have one more minute, I'd like to make another announcement. From the agreement for the development of the regions, the Ministry co-financed approximately 60 projects across Slovenia aimed at the construction of cleaning facilities, sewerages, plumbing and the like. Given the strict criteria, today we have invited all the mayors by letter to change the criteria – what would you say? – that we have loosened some goals. In fact, so far only projects, such as sewerages, have been promoted and co-financed for new population equivalents, and many municipalities need to restore and upgrade existing sewerages. And there was no restoration. The costs of hydraulic improvement of existing sewage and new connections together will then be eligible. This will facilitate the preparation of applications to a number of congregations. So let's face these projects so that we can spend this money on useful things as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u180	Thank you very much. I will not ask an additional question, just to say that I am grateful, Mr Minister, for this answer, very exhausted, and I think it will help the other municipalities very much, not only the Municipality of Ajdovščina. There was no talk of the Municipality of Vipava, but of the Municipality of Ajdovščina. So I really thank you and I believe that we will be able to launch many projects after Slovenia, which have now been waiting for realisation for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u181	Thank you very much. We're moving on. The next question will be asked by Mr Marko Bandelli, Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u182	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear Minister! The covida-19 pandemic continues to affect our lives and, according to some predictions, experts and policy will not change much until the vaccine develops. In many countries, including us, they are making great efforts to develop this vaccine. A number of clinical studies are also ongoing. The World Health Organisation points out, however, that the procedures for obtaining a mass vaccination permit with a particular vaccine usually last for several years and will only be granted if it is safe and effective. “The political pressures following the availability of vaccines have undermined public confidence in the vaccine, which could prevent people from deciding to vaccinate against the new coronavirus,” the WHO said, but does not expect extensive vaccination to start before the middle of next year. Nine biopharmaceuticals developing covid-19 vaccine have also indicated in a joint statement that the vaccine they are developing will be submitted for approval only after extensive and high-quality clinical trials have shown that they are safe and effective and that they will respect the highest scientific and ethical standards and the integrity of the scientific process in the development of the vaccine. During the competition of the developing countries, however, Russia, which registered the vaccine as the first country in the world, beats everything. “The cepivo, named Sputnik 5, has developed, in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, a reputable national research centre for the epidemiology and microbiology of Gamale. The director of the Russian direct investment fund Kiril Dmitriev, who is funding the vaccine research, announced that 20 countries have already ordered a billion doses of vaccine.” Dear Minister, Secretary of State Tina Bregant said days ago that Slovenia could receive the vaccine even this year. In view of everything previously said and also in the light of the fact that the Slovenian group at the Chemical Institute is also developing a covidu-19 vaccine, I am interested in: Within what time frame do you expect a covidu-19 vaccine? Who or what countries are you negotiating with about the vaccine, at what price, and at what amounts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u184	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Member, Mr Bandelli! Of course, we all want vaccines as soon as possible in order to make life as normal as possible, but on the other hand, it is necessary to ensure the safety of the vaccine, an appropriate test. For this reason and also for the provision of sufficient quantities, Slovenia has accepted the invitation of Mrs Stella Kyriakides, European Commissioner for Health, and we are performing together with the other members of the European Commission in the joint procurement of medicines. This joint event is important, on the one hand, for ensuring the lowest possible prices, for supply in sufficient quantities, and in particular for these vaccines to be safe, effective, also available at some comparable or equal time intervals. The European Commission already signed a contract with one producer in August, says in August with AstraZeneca, the other six are on hold, with some likelihood that the vaccine might be available by the end of the year. Prior to that, it will have to be approved by EMA, the European Medicines Agency, and only after this approval, according to all tests, will it be possible to share or purchase according to the intended key in all Member States. So I think that we will have an affordable vaccine and also to this extent tested so that there should be no doubt about its safety and price policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We had some trouble measuring time, so you have three minutes left to answer if you haven't exhausted it yet, or if you want to log in again. Mr. Secretary, are you finished? [[Yeah.]] Then go ahead, Bandelli, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u186	Thank you. I raised my hand twice. You probably didn't see it. Thank you, Minister. Of course we're interested. Your answer was expected, but you know what it is? What guarantees we have here is very important. You know how controversial there is around these vaccines. Even in the light of the adoption of this law that we have before us, there are a lot of people who are for the vaccine, some who are against it. We want to know if the vaccine is safe. This EMA, will it politically put it out because countries will conclude that it is the right thing to do, or will there be some security in the background? Because we know for ourselves that time is very short. And we know how long it usually takes to develop vaccines. I believe that technology is now new, that other receptions are different things, that it progresses in a different way, that it once took up to 10 years to get some vaccines. I believe we can do this in three times less time now, but do we really think that in a bad year we're going to get a vaccine that's going to be safe, it won't have consequences? Because, you know, all vaccines are always a little questionable. Not to repeat, I personally do not oppose vaccination, because I think vaccination is generally good for humanity in any case, but there are certain vaccines that leave certain consequences. We will also give us some written questions on this and we will answer because we will discuss this further. But above all, with regard to reliability, we are interested in whether you know or not whether we will obtain any documentation or whether a study will be published, what kind of research, because so far there has been nothing. Because it's classified? We don't even know how many people have been vaccinated, how many people have benefited from this system, what the results and consequences of all this have been. Except for one case that we saw where something was reacting, but we didn't see if it really had an impact on the vaccine or on the other. Please, if you can answer that for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u188	Thank you. I don't think we have any reason to doubt the European Medicines Agency as to EMA, so far it has been working professionally and in support of all Member States. We do not yet have the necessary documentation at our disposal, as procedures have not yet been completed there. Once completed, each Member State that has decided on medicinal products will receive all appropriate instructions, documentation and necessary safety and efficacy studies. At this point we can hope and believe that this medicine or vaccine is on the right track. I believe it is. In addition, by summer, the first half of these vaccines were scheduled for, I don't know, five or six. It is hard to imagine that as a country we would go through this, given that no one would really believe anyone in us if, of course, on the basis of their experience, we started offering the vaccine. So I think this is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Bandelli, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u190	Thank you, Minister for your answer. The argument. I think, Minister, it's a really very important argument. We know for ourselves what causes this virus this year, we ourselves know that we are already in the grip of all of this, we are stuck, let's say, in the closed space of this virus. We've been doing this lately, and all the activities in the country are dependent on this virus, so we don't know anything yet, honestly. Nobody knows that yet. And because the argument is so important, and what are the real guarantees, how with the reliability of the vaccine, the likely harmful effects of the vaccine, and what EMA will put out if it does, and what will be the short results – because we heard your secretary of state that we were supposed to get this vaccine even this year. Count on us to be next week in October, which means something should be known. For this reason, Mr Vice-President, I would like the debate to take place on my issue, as envisaged under Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 September, in the framework of the votes. Now let's get on with it. Mr Dusan Šiško will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u192	Thank you very much. All in attendance, all in attendance! The Ministry of Infrastructure is 30. Seven. 2020 introduced the Public Fund Act of the Republic of Slovenia to finance the decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste and spent fuel from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. With this proposal, the Ministry is trying not only to change the way in which funding is provided so far for the decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste and spent fuel, but also to reduce the impact of the general public, and in particular the local community, which has already agreed to establish the first nuclear reactor in this part of Europe 50 years ago. In view of the fact that the new proposal removes the current 1994 fund, which was also set up to solve the problems posed by the peaceful use of nuclear energy even after the end of the life of the power plant, I am interested in the following: What is the actual objective and purpose of changing the specific fund for financing the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, as also foreseen by the Interstate Treaty with Croatia, into one of the types of other public funds? How do you imagine the country's participation as owner of nuclear facilities in Krk with the local community if you take away its headquarters and the possibility of its representatives adequately participating in the decisions on the operation of the Fund? In the event of a new organisation, how do you plan to provide funds for the Fund's tasks in the event of a lack of acceptance of the State budget? How do you imagine continuing your cooperation with the local community in the construction of a waste dump and in particular in preparation for the construction of another nuclear reactor in Krk, for which you have recently taken such a strong public stand? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Dear colleague! I was also a Member of the National Assembly in 2014, I think twice, and I think there have been a lot of debates and negative reports from the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the law on the Fund for the Financing of Decommissioning. One of the reasons for these changes is undoubtedly the opinion of the Court of Auditors. The most important reason: in the audits in question, they claim that the position of the Fund in the legislation is not adequately regulated, as the Fund does not operate in an organisational form that would allow for the transparent definition and determination of parameters and the limitation of investment policy. They further say that it is not possible to establish and exercise effective control over the operation of the Fund that, due to the existing statutory law, the determination of the contribution to the disposal of NEKs for the disposal of radioactive waste from NEK also states that there is a risk for the fund that the fund will not raise sufficient funds for the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste, that it is not specified what profitability the Fund must achieve in its operations, that the characteristics and parameters of the investment in which the fund can invest its assets are not defined and that the principles of the fund's investment and not the limits are not specified in terms of the type and quantity of assets to be invested in individual securities are not specified. [[…]] These are all findings, Mr. Shisko, Court of Auditors. Yeah, that's important. They also say that the existing regime does not define the tasks and competences of the energy ministry, that the staff structure of the staff in accordance with its tasks and responsibilities is not adequate and so on. All of these were the Court of Auditors' opinions in previous mandates, and we have received this inherited. And since I do not want to continue to be the Minister who will receive these negative views from the Court of Auditors, it is only right that some arrangements be made in accordance with the Court of Auditors' recommendations and opinions. With the new bill, we still maintain a specific dedicated fund, for which, where appropriate, the provisions of the Law on Public Funds will apply, everything else will be defined in the specific law on the NEK Fund and specific exceptions will be identified, of course. If I can visualize it in plastic. It does not make sense in a specific law to standardise the rights and duties of the members of the Supervisory Board, or how you can resolve the Director prematurely, for example, if this is reasonably regulated at systemic level in this second law. In doing so, it is worth noting, yes, yes, yes, even the Interstate Treaty does not provide for an organisational form of the Fund, namely the transformation of the Decommissioning Fund, the Public Fund, in line with the Interstate Treaty. Let me make one more point. The proposal of this law also complies with the Government’s decision of 2009, 3. 11. 2009, by which the Government then instructed the Ministry of the Economy to prepare, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, a proposal for amendments to the legislation which, by placing the Fund in the main legal system solution of the public funds, will allow for a more transparent operation and supervision of the operation of the Fund. And since this was not done in 10 years, there was a re-decision of the Government in 2017. And since it has not yet been regulated since 2017, we have decided to do so systematically. That's it. You said "how you imagine the country's participation as owners of nuclear facilities" and so on. The proposal for a new law does not provide for a change in the seat of the Fund. And if anyone's for decentralization, it's me. In the proposal for a law, the seat of the Fund is simply not established; this supervisory law provides that the seat of the Fund shall be determined by means of an act establishing the Fund. And let me tell you that in the proposal for an act establishing, respected Mr Šiška, which we are preparing at the Ministry, the seat of the Fund is again envisaged in Krška. Nothing changes about anything moving. As regards the participation of representatives of the local community in the decisions, the comments of the Municipality of Krško, NEK, will be taken into account as proposed. All of these were comments, which means that a representative of the local self-governance community is also present in the supervisory board of the fund, so that the proposal for a law in this part is amended accordingly. As far as cooperation with the local community is concerned. Me and the local community, I personally want to work well with the local community, too. And I'll give you the other answers. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Your time's up. Mr. Shisko, would you like a request to complete your response? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u196	Thank you. Since I've been listening to such things for a long time, I also expected to receive such an answer, Minister. I also knew you'd say that the team prepared this, and the Court of Auditors. But look, you were part of the critical opposition, and you came to power to correct what your predecessors did. Look, Minister, when I presented your candidacy, I doubted that as inexperienced as you are the ministers of the party, you receive heavy resources. At the time, I may have felt a little insulted, but no one was able to tell you that you were out of work. Maybe you're still too good-looking, at least in case of nuclear issues, you seem to be getting ahead of yourself. In addition, I must remind you, colleagues, of at least some of the requirements of the Municipal Council of Krko Municipality, which were adopted at the time of the adoption of the spatial act for the landfill and agreed with them by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And these are one of them: that compensation for limited use of space for Krka Municipality is maintained at the same level; that the organisational form of the company dealing with radioactive waste is not changed; that the government implements all the protocols signed with individual ministries; that the NEK Fund is established in Krška – which you have already said you are preparing. At that time, as a congregation counselor, I was involved, and believe me, without taking into account the local community, it will not be possible to do so in the future. If you continue as you have suggested in the proposal for a new fund, you can forget about the plans with the new reactor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u198	I'm gonna say this thing again, which I'm already at the hearing. If the youth of the ministers of New Slovenia is the only weakness that is, I promise you that this year will be smaller. As for the predecessors you mentioned, see, for 13 years we have been waiting for the Government's conclusions to be implemented and taking into account several negative opinions of the Court of Auditors. In preparing this law, we follow the Court of Auditors' opinion. This is not an organ that is intended for itself, but is an organ that needs to be taken into account, and if they record that something is legislative and so on, then we will take this into account. There have been no changes since the government's conclusions. We have already taken into account the local community in the preparation of the public hearing and we will re-sit with the local community because there is no problem, and we will take into account the opinions that are, but not the opinions that are passed by the Court of Auditors or in non-compliance with the legislation and so on. The seat stays in Krka. The other comments made by the local community, which are also in accordance with the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors' opinion from the past, will also be taken into account. So there's nothing to rule out here, not to rush events. With regard to the vehement predictions for the second block of nuclear power, no one was ahead of anything. Let me say that I missed you in Krk when we had a very good business conference organised by one of the newspapers and there was also Minister Vizjak. We had a very good discussion on the second block. The story of the second block doesn't run too fast, but we're taking steps to make the final decisions for the second block of nuclear power. I promise that once the climate strategy is in place, we will issue an energy permit, and that can be done this year. But you know there are two key conditions for the second block. A landfill in Vrbina, where we are doing our best to obtain all environmental permits, financial resources are provided for Vrbina, but unfortunately we do not have environmental permits, and this is not the problem of my department, but of other structures in other areas. The local community where the nuclear facility is located – to answer your previous, final question. The nuclear facility has also received all the compensation necessary and I want to have a good dialogue with the local community in preparing this law. Following public consultation, comments are already taken into account in the proposal for a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Shisko, do you have a procedural proposal? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u200	Minister, thank you. And I missed your invitation to this round table. Today I have a paper from this, a picture, I wasn't invited. I miss this many times when you ministers come to Posavje, to Krk, and we don't get Members, not just from Posavje, from all over Slovenia, it's hard to get any Member invited when the Minister is there. But let's just let it go because it's not a topic today. The business of the Fund is not only about energy and the environment, but also about the further development of Slovenia as well as international relations. Recently, the Croatian Minister of the Environment announced that Croatia is interested in investing in a new reactor in Krske. Is it true? Of course! Who wouldn't invest if the nuclear reactor site was already secured? What problems do we have with them now, and no one asks that question? Since the current government is kind of friendly to its neighbors, I wouldn’t be surprised if something began to be arranged under the table. Now we are preparing a landfill of low and medium radioactive waste for our part, the Slovenian part in Krske, while in the nuclear power plant they are already expanding the temporary warehouse for the Croatian part. This just confirms that the Croatian part of the waste will remain at the power plant for a long time, as well as their part of the spent fuel, and all of this will be in Krk. Minister Vrtovec announced, as I had said before, that by the end of the year an energy permit for another reactor will be created in Krskem and Minister Vizjak will soon begin placing in space. That was on this round table. I couldn't agree more. NEK 2 is not really just about filling up the current facility, but about almost a whole new power plant. If the state intends to take such an unserious approach to the issue that I have been alerting since the beginning of my term of office, I have a proposal. The Ministers should agree and start placing a new nuclear reactor somewhere in Ljubljana, which is the largest consumer of electricity and heat. Of course, I propose that we hold a general debate on all of this under Article 246. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Your proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday in the framework of the vote. We're moving on. Mrs Mojca Žnidarič will ask the Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The vaccines are today's topic. The World Health Organisation estimated that due to the lack of temperature control and lack of logistics worldwide, around 50% of vaccines are lost annually. This information is very eloquent and tells us to prepare everything necessary to properly store the covidu-19 vaccine. Like the development of the covidu-19 vaccine itself, a major challenge will be its distribution and storage. Most vaccines are stored at between 2°C and 8°C and the vaccine against the new coronary virus is expected to be stored in the same way. If we are to work, which we are sure that a sufficient amount of covidu-19 vaccine will be provided for our citizens, we must also ensure all other conditions for the vaccine to be safe and effective. That's why I want to know: Do we have the conditions provided in Slovenia for the proper storage of covidu-19 vaccine? How many doses will the vaccine be available for our citizens? Do operators have sufficient capacity or are any specific additional refrigerators envisaged for this purpose? Will operators receive appropriate and precise instructions for handling vaccines and when can they expect them? Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u204	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Member! As has already been said, we are waiting for medicines in the framework of a common public contract or vaccines in the framework of a common public contract within the framework of the European Commission. As soon as such a vaccine has been approved by the Agency for Medicinal Products, it must, of course, also be accompanied by instructions for use, the main characteristics of the medicinal product, including how to store it. And in this case it is more difficult to store at least some of them, because we are talking about the seven types of vaccines that are being negotiated by the European Commission, and the conditions are not the same for all, but for some they are sharp. In this context, it is also agreed that these vaccines will be provided to Member States at some agreed time intervals, all of which are said, and in agreed take-overs – these should be a maximum of 20 in Europe – where conditions will be provided. The other conditions for those shorter times, which are likely to be less strict, will have to be guaranteed by us. So far, I'm being argued that this shouldn't be a problem. In addition, this part is also essential in order to have a good organisation in the implementation of these vaccinations. It is said that a pre-planned number, which population in the planned places, will also be kept in our country for as short a time as possible and will go into appropriate use quickly. About the quantities themselves. The evaluation was – therefore, I have a designated expert working group, which must ensure everything that relates to these vaccines. The estimated estimate was around 60% of the population, which means that about a million 100 million, a million 200 thousand people are being vaccinated. A broader survey was carried out in some RSK, including in the nursing homes themselves, where the population should be most interested. There, for example, employees were defined about 55% to want to be vaccinated, while the suppliers themselves were about 69%. However, this estimate is 60% on the average of the European Union somewhere, on the basis of the average of these estimates, which range from 20% to 100% in some countries. However, I think the evaluation is appropriate for now and we will see what will be the actual one, which vaccine will be the first and what will be the conditions for its use, and not least the storage as you asked.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Would you like to complete the question, Madam Members? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u206	In fact, I would like to thank the Minister for this comprehensive answer. I am pleased that the working group, as has been said, is indeed working. We all hope that the appropriate vaccines will be developed as soon as possible and that they will be safe and effective, so I want this logistics part taken care of as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Igor Peček will ask the Minister for Finance mags a question. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of the demographic fund is to accumulate funds from which the fund will provide us and our next generation with funding or pension funds. The proposal, prepared by the Government, plans to spend resources that will be in line for various purposes, including co-financing of the pension allowance manka, which is now covered by the state budget. In addition to pensions, the Fund will also take care of family policy and building a home for older citizens in different shares. The concept of demographic investments provides for the transfer of state-owned enterprises, their dividends, returns and potential purchases from sales to be a permanent source of funding for this fund. You predict a 5% return on capital, in 2022 the fund is expected to have slightly more than 9 billion assets, and annually it is expected to pay 75 million euros to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. In 2035, it would be 15 billion and 121 million. In 2019, EUR 346 million was paid to the state budget for profits and assets of state-owned enterprises and little more than 1 billion was paid from the budget to the pension fund. When I review these numbers, I get the following questions that I want to ask you. First of all, I want to know: Do you estimate that the money to finance pensions will be sufficient? How will funding be provided in the future if your proposal is implemented? In what way will we cover the loss of income? I said, in 2019, EUR 346 million was paid into the state budget, which will be no more. I also want to know: Can one management structure be managed and managed by companies that carry out their activities in such different sectors? For example, the bank's debt management company is also engaged in restructuring companies, will this be the task of the demographic fund in the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much, honourable Member, for the question. Indeed, the information you have given is one of the versions prepared by the Ministry of Finance when preparing to be made or submitted for consideration by the Government and later by the National Demographic Fund Act in the National Assembly. Here I would like to say that this is one of the types of financial effects. In fact, it's hard to determine in advance what the return will be. That's why we have multiple versions, multiple variants, from 1 to, if you want, 10% yield, and you've only said one option. Here, too, I would like to say that not all are real and not all options are those that are actually going to come true at any time. If we look at the return now on SDH, then we can find that some real return could also be around 6%, now this yield has slightly increased to more than six in 2019, but of course it can be much less. So from this point of view, I'm going to say, all the numbers you've given are actually estimates. If you're asking me if the money would be enough for the pension, that was your first question, I'd say the following. Of course, that's enough. No one ever claimed he wouldn't be, and I always said that money would be enough. Pensions will be financed from different sources. Even today, the biggest source is contributions to pension and disability insurance, which is lacking, and is actually financed from the budget. In addition, it should be borne in mind that KAD is already giving 50 million to finance the pension fund. So there's no fear from this point of view, no problem that pensions won't be financed. How will this be covered, which is your second question? By actually paying the budget for the manko, even if the yield manca will be, then there will still be the budget here, these resources actually remain. Here, of course, we have a problem with the contribution, which is relatively high, and this is also noted by the OECD. This makes our work much more taxed and therefore uncompetitive. If you ask me how to manage state property, I think we will definitely have different investments in the country, some are strategic, others are portfolios, properties will be special, probably, but I think there will be specialists here for this and also those who are experts in the management of such systems. We will have different departments, divisions, sectors, however you want, and individual types of investments will be led in different ways, including with other policies. After all, we also have different investments in SDH today, some are strategic, non-strategic, portfolio and so on, some have more real estate, others less. So, even today, this is already happening in practice, the difference is that there will be a greater scale. All these institutions, which now exist and have state property, will actually have a new role here, namely, providing money, additional money, additional resources for pensions and, of course, for those purposes that you mentioned. But this is about the Solidarity Fund. In other words, solidarity shows that young people care for the elderly, and we do have such a system.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Peček, do you have a request to complete your response? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u212	Thank you very much. As can be seen from your answers, there are still some uncertainties and assessments that we cannot say for sure how they will be carried out in the future at this time. That there will be enough money for pensions – of course, because it must be enough. My question began with this, but I was thinking more about this part of what the role of the budget would then be. You haven't answered this question, so let's just say, manko 346 million in 2019, how we're going to cover it. That's what I'd like to ask. Does this mean that we will be in debt, or is a new source foreseen? As far as you know. As for the merger and consolidation of management. I agree with you here, Mr. Secretary. One assessment was also that about 1.5 million savings should be made annually with the different form of management you are predicting. This could be a lot, but it could be a little bit of money, depending on how you look at it. But in view of the fact that companies have different business sectors, different business strategies, it makes sense to combine only to some extent. This is also related to the supervisory function of the demographic fund. I'm afraid, according to your proposal, the composition of the Supervisory Council will be too political and under-expert. In your opinion, is the proposal for the composition of the Supervisory Board in line with what the OECD requires of us? You yourself have mentioned that certain requirements need to be respected. I think that SDH has a well-established function right now, but your proposal differs from that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I did not fully understand the honourable Member what these ambiguities were. Three questions have been asked, three questions have been answered, and I will now answer again what may not have been so clear to the Member. First of all. During the last 15 years, ZPIZ has raised a good 50 billion and the budget of the Republic of Slovenia has had to provide him with 20 billion more in the last 15 years. If we look after years at how much the actual budget contributes to the pension fund after various years, it is about 800 million to a billion 600. This was during the time of the financial crisis. From this perspective, the budget will continue to contribute to the financing of pensions. That's what I said. As regards the composition of the Supervisory Board and the appointment, account shall be taken of the completeness of the OECD Recommendation. If you are talking about that the current SDH Supervisory Board is not political and that it is perfectly fine – for the last two members of the current Supervisory Board, it is, to put it this way, that they have accepted their role, their membership of the National Assembly. Here are a number of criteria, a number of criteria by which the supervisory board is chosen. All are transparent, all are defined in the law, the criteria are defined in the law. From this point of view, I think that these insinuations, just in advance, that this supervisory board of the demographic fund will be political, have no basis at all. I think that even more so as to ensure that the opposition also plays a role in determining supervisors in the supervisory council. We believe that it is necessary to cooperate both with the opposition and with the coalition when people are called into the supervisory world. We will take the widest possible base for this, and I see no reason to talk about any politicisation of the Supervisory Council in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Peček, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u216	I know that I have the possibility of a procedural proposal under the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 246 but I do not think it makes sense at this point. But if you allow of course it is right and the opposition must cooperate with the coalition. [[…]] The debate on this will be – I will finish, thank you – enough so that I will not make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u217	Thank you very much. It was such a mini-abuse. We'll miss it because I know it won't happen again. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Sonibo Knezak will ask the Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mr Janez Cigler King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u218	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister! The contents of my question are such that it actually interferes with both of them, so I have addressed this question or my thinking to both of them. In recent times, we have faced more infections in the homes of older citizens, as it relates to the fact that the vaccine – today there has been little debate about it – is not yet and probably will not be for quite some time. The solution or infection of this virus in the homes of older citizens is mainly in the way – let us leave all the other measures, the means of protection that you use – based on trying to contain the virus with so-called zones. As a layman, it seems to me that this measure is somehow logical because you prevent contact and thus disable the virus. This has proved to be in practice, including isolation, for quite a success. What has caused a lot of people to turn to me in recent weeks is that no one asks what the establishment of these zones means for residents of the home of older citizens who are not infected with the virus. Given that the measures in these homes do not last one week, 14 days, but that the month, two, before they successfully face the elimination of this virus in their homes, are healthy residents, in these two months literally – I think it is a little too harsh a word, I will not say that they are in prison, but literally they have a very limited movement, social contacts with employees. I know that I am not telling you anything new, that it is likely that both the residents and the relatives of these people who are in the homes of the elderly have already turned to you. But it seems to me that this way, given how I said that the virus will still be present within us or will come back again, is a matter of time before it comes back to the homes where it has already been. [[…]] I can't imagine people being locked up twice in a year, I don't know, three times in a house, and after a few months, they're going to be treated in some kind of prison, literally, that's going to stop them from moving. So I have three questions on this subject. I'm asking you: Do you think that a second appropriate treatment environment should be provided for infected residents at home for the elderly, thus enabling other residents to live normally? How will the Government address the problem in particular in those homes for the elderly, where they are already faced with spatial distress, inappropriate and long-term space and human resources problems? Are you preparing, within your powers, any incentive measures for older workers in their homes and, if any, what will these measures be?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for this question. Maybe the first part of how to make a normal life possible for other residents in the home. The question in some way is probably not the most fair, because we are trying to provide the same services to all. You need to know that most people who are infected may have mild symptoms, asymptomatic and in fact need the same care and care as everyone else. It would be unfair and unfair to move them from this address or to deprive them of such procedures. We have already mentioned that migration does not seem to make sense in view of the fact that it is really difficult to get the right objects, but especially the people who care in the same way, but above all the problem is a change in the environment for these people who are aware of the situation and the situation, and that is not what the vast majority really wants. If isolation procedures are properly implemented, there is no reason for any of the tenants to be deprived of what they need in this house and what is normal for us to receive in the whole process. But perhaps the difference is that in the first phase of the epidemic, when we didn't know what we were dealing with, the measures might actually be disproportionately severe if we look back today. That's what I'm thinking about most of the long-term isolation. What we are trying to achieve today is to be proportionate. It is said that even if an infection occurs, isolation may be justified for a few days, but no longer, so much so that we get an epidemiological picture that we can take action to really withdraw them for at least a few days, so that one normal way of working can be established and not later. I think that, let's say, the humane way and quite appropriate that these people can, and the infected and the others, stay home with what they need and what they can get. Of course, those in need of hospital treatment go to hospitals.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u221	Thank you very much. I will also try to answer some of the questions, in particular, to focus on what measures we have already taken and will take with regard to the resolution of the human resources crisis, which is an extremely important question. In this place, I have to express once again all the admiration and gratitude to the teams at home for the elderly and other social welfare institutions that are actually doing a really selfless and very important job of protecting our most vulnerable, especially the elderly in the homes for the elderly. In the fourth anti-korona package, we have also adopted the basis for making or already making a contribution of EUR 29 million to social security institutions, which belongs somewhere recalculated to homes for more than 550 jobs. 550 jobs, which will relieve these problems, which in some cases, especially in homes that have an infection or have it, are already burned down, tired, and will thus be burdened. In PKP5, something has already been mentioned by the President of the Government today, we are preparing further measures, because it is not only enough money to open up jobs, as you know, these are jobs where it is harder to get an employee, so we will approach this, and the proposal is that we will arrange allowances for those who work in more exposed jobs, either in a grey or a red zone. We believe that in this way we will be able to provide sufficient motivation, not least financially, for these jobs to be held. On the other hand, a number of measures have been taken, especially in the area of application, integration of projects into European funds, and here we are very careful that those who have poor, inadequate and long-term spaces, i.e. spatial pressures, would be encouraged to prepare themselves as best possible and quickly as possible to run for office in these funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr. Members, do you have a request to complete your response? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u223	Thank you. I guess you both know where I come from when I came from Hrastnik, where you had it, we had it in common, I have to say, problems in the first place also because of spatial inadequacy at home. I recall Mr Gantar's statement that these homes should no longer be in 2020. That's why the local community has been working for the last years, even the municipality, I think it's already invested some 50,000 euros in projects because it didn't have them because of the financial situation with these beds and the standard of three- or four-bed rooms. You probably know that. However, a lot of residents or family members have turned to me, so, I don't know, Mr Gantar, if it's gonna hold, they're limited, this movement, one doesn't have an external one. If this is once, I would understand it, people are suffering, but I'm afraid that we're going to live with this virus for a while, and I'm thinking a little bit about if there's gonna be a few months a year, but maybe we should think about some other measures now. I'm glad, Minister King, you've been thinking about rewards. You still owe me two more answers, but I understand that I probably put one in writing on July 27th, but I haven't received an answer yet, and the other 13th, but I believe you'll answer me, and I believe you have to go on vacation. At the same time, I would also like to commend you, and I was immediately after an outbreak with the home of the elderly citizens in Hrastnik in liaison with the director, if he needs any help, and he said that for now you are not responding, to cooperate with the ministry. So, despite all of this, since you've also put in place some measures later, it looks like they've been running out of this virus for a few weeks now. The second is the financing of these houses, the protection funds, because there is no more pandemic, for Hrastnik I know specifically that 8 000 500 euros are on a weekly level. I believe you know the story because I've been told you've already begun to engage. The money you provided for the employees is fine, but they now had a call in Hrastnik and, of course, no one came. So it seems to me that those measures are going in the right direction, but I hope you have a solution for our home of the elderly as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u225	Thank you. Maybe that's it. We are now providing an additional 50 million with a proposal for a new law on the implementation of the budget, with which we will also be able to finance this personal protective equipment in our homes and thus help them. In addition, all this professional advice, working groups of coordinators, which will also partly be financed from it, in addition to the remuneration of the people who are. There are further training workshops, including for employees, wherever they want, because the problem is, if you have not been sufficiently familiar with this, the proper use of all of this. Last but not least, the possibility of mobile units – these are modern units, these are not containers, as we imagine when we talk about containers – to facilitate work, maybe some basic activity, I don't know, physical therapy, you don't have to be in there. Finally, with the annex to the general health agreement, we introduce some additional categories of care which are intended to do so. It is said that it is being tried, but it is true in the end and under the line that in all areas we really lack the staff that we could provide in time and always. We are doing our best here, and we also have a few options for PKP5, where we should have a few more possibilities for reallocation. So we are really thinking about making life easier for these elderly ones in their homes.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u226	Thank you for this supplementary question or comment. I'll make it up to you. Apologize first. If we are late, I will take immediate action to answer, and I apologize, it is also my responsibility not to do so. Next. We agree in fact that it is not only enough money, but we must also take other measures to make these jobs or these jobs attractive, and we are also working together with the Ministry of Health. Last but not least, I think that much will be resolved at the strategic level or at the systemic level by the long-term supply law, which is under public scrutiny. As part of the provision of capacity, I may also mention that not only homes for the elderly, in line with modern guidelines for the care of the elderly, deinstitutionalisation is also important and that we allow the elderly to live as long as possible at home. In the context of deinstitutionalisation, there is an invitation to tender for day centres and temporary accommodation, 21 million is worth, and on the other hand an invitation to tender for concessions. And perhaps as a conclusion, I will mention a protocol for action in the event of a virus in the home, a protocol that in some way enables a successful response to the virus in this second wave. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Don't you have a procedural proposal? [[No, no, ……]] Let's keep asking questions. Mrs Alenka Jeraj will ask the Minister for Home Affairs, Mr Aleš Hojs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u228	Thank you so much for saying that. For decades or even longer, we have been talking about the mass stealing of wood from Slovenian state forests. A whole bunch of articles have been published about this, and a whole bunch of things are happening. We are then, years ago, customers or the government of Mira Cerar, founded a whole company of the Slovenian National Forest, where it is expected that the director of such a company would also control all of this, have some control and knew exactly how much wood is measured, how much wood is cut down, how much is actually taken away and sold. But it feels like all these years the situation is not getting better, but it's getting worse. On the Portal Plus, it is also estimated elsewhere that it is a real organised crime, connections, in addition to all those in companies, both in the Slovenian State Forests and in the Institute of Forests responsible for this, the media also mention political connections, especially the SD party with mag. In fact, we know the Jewish minister of agriculture, who has been for many years. Recently, the directors of some of these companies, Mr Damjan Orazem, Mr Ficko, have been replaced for a lot of things, a whole bunch of problems have arisen, from mobile to contentious employment, a whole bunch of other things. All of this has been investigated by the KPC, and the Court of Auditors has repeatedly been critical in its reports. As it is said, it has been going on for many years, and for such cases, difficult, we would say, and difficult, we have set up a National Investigation Office. I want to know: Are there any investigations into the theft of timber from state forests? Have the police filed any charges against the prosecution, and are they investigating what is even proved by the documents in some articles, which is probably the task of the police, not of research journalists?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Dear Member! As you have already determined, the Government and, of course, the police, in this particular case, have the task of investigating all the crimes that the State's Attorney detects, or the one to which he alerts or specifically directs it. Also in the case of potential crimes arising from logging and trafficking, the police do not actually have any other criteria. I must say that since the establishment of this company or when the Slovenian forest is somewhat more intensively exhausted – last but not least, it is necessary to know that almost two-thirds of Slovenia is covered by forests, so this is a relatively rich opportunity to exploit this forest as well as, of course, a potentially large potential for abuse – the police are actively engaged in it. For example, the police, I can say that in one of the more resonant cases in 2019, dealt with and also found that it was a major woodjacking. That's when they were talking about a few hundred cubits. This is relatively small compared to everything we cut. To that end, appropriate criminal charges were brought against the State Prosecutor's Office, namely by names, surnames and any other necessary attributes which the criminal charge must contain. In the last few years, it is necessary to say, somewhere between 2016 and 2020, the numbers are quite different. If in 2016 we detected or dealt with only a few 30 wood thefts, let's say in 2017, 2018, 2019 came to numbers almost 100, so three times the number. It is also up to this point this year, and this year it must be understood that this exploitation or this work has been slowed down by the crown state, we are also at almost 50, so it is a relatively large number, while in the number of criminal charges or complaints against known perpetrators this number is less exhilarating. If, in 2018, we have found or managed to file only two complaints against known perpetrators, this figure has somehow risen to 36 in 2017, only 16 in 2018, only 14 in 2019, and this year's number is relatively low, i.e. only 7 such complaints. I must say that, on my part, the police have received clear guidance, that there is no difference between investigating crimes that might be assessed by someone in the sense that where there is enough wealth, we have enough forest, we do not complicate it; it is not true, however, that the policies of the police are clear. I have to say that in the last days, I do not know what this is about to write down, perhaps even to media releases, there are anonymous people in our ministry who are involved in the problem of exploitation or criminal offences in Slovenian forests. Let's say one of them came in just two days ago, there's a source in there that says that it's a network and a well-tempered matter that leads from family, friendly ties, even the names of candidates for MPs in the National Assembly, they mention innkeepers, where people are getting in, it clearly says how this thing is done, that is, full-loaded trucks, where even transport sheets are arranged, that is, excessive loads of trucks; and thus deltas between actually loaded cubicles of wood and weight. To the fact that the sources say that it is supposed to be the looting of those parts of the forest that are predominantly owned by older people who can no longer monitor their forest, control and so on, where real gols are made. All I can say is that the police will do all the work in future, and that Furs and the other state authorities will also be involved after more intensive cooperation, in order to actually process these abuses or crimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Madam Members, do you have a request to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u232	Yes, because my question was in that sense. Okay, so the police are doing some work, they've filed charges, and I'm surprised that the complaint is less, because that means that we don't want to investigate because I doubt there will be any less of this crime. Estimates are to lose between 50 million and 30 million a year, these are quite large numbers and we should be very serious about this. It is not only the lump or the one who steals, but also the ones who hold the bag, or it is also obvious that some who run certain institutions are from the Institute of Forests to the Slovenian State Forests. Like the police, is Mr. Orazm being investigated? After all, it was announced at the Portal PLUS in July that the Director of the Damjan Orazem Forestry Institute signed a contract for the renovation of the roof in the Kočevka River building, which was owned by the Institute, with this money, it was a little over €40 000 ordered before the works were carried out. This is definitely a crime. I want to know: Is something being investigated in this regard? There is also evidence that this has been so, that there are real individuals and specific people. Because if one official or director answers for something, then we'll have a lot more order in this country. And one more thing I want to know: Is there a special group set up? Law allows all these organs, Furs, and so on. In my view, it should absolutely be here, because it actually looks like a very organised case and a criminal association. The ultimate goal of transporting stolen timber is Austria. Drivers drive at night, and a man who was in contact in Germany has already been convicted of money laundering. What have we done on this?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u233	Thank you very much. I would only warn you in this place that we're all taking care of our responsibilities together. Perhaps there is no place in the question of the question of who is being investigated and we speak with names and surnames. But I believe that Mr Minister will respect the powers and all that he can speak about in public. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Yeah, yeah, of course I can't really talk about names. You must understand, of course, it is also in the interest of investigations not to operate on specific names. I must say that I also do not know whether Mr A or Mrs C or B is involved in any matter. However, I can tell you that we are intensively negotiating to set up a special group to investigate this particular issue. In the coming days, I also meet with the Minister of Agriculture, who also somehow says that things need to be looked at and reviewed here, because only some audits have been carried out in the Slovenian National Forests, and that it has already been established through the audit findings that things do not count there, so that they do not count numbers which, given the extremely large number of cut cubic metres in our forests, are quite different from those in the balance sheets. Perhaps I should also say that we, even because the matter is quite neat, have also done one brief analysis of how many crimes have been investigated or processed in the past by the police. And I can tell you that over the last five years, the police have investigated about 50,000 to 60,000 criminal offences or suspected crime services, including in the Crime Police Sector and at the NPU about 24 000. So we can see that essentially the so-called parade part of the police was investigating a relatively small number, that is, less than 10%. What's more interesting, however, is the number that somehow tells us that a large number of cases have only been completed by the report within these numbers, so only a report has been submitted to the District Attorney's Office, which means that the police have not detected any suspicions or serious irregularities. That's been a lot in the last five years. We are dealing with the total number of those crimes, those charges that have been filed against the prosecution as suspected crimes or with the indictment, and quite a large number have been dropped. I must say that almost 30% of what the police have put on the prosecution has been dropped, or in recent years this number has even been much higher. I think that the police and both the police, i.e. the NPU and the criminal police on a case-by-case basis, must take things more seriously and deal with them more intensively, more professionally and particularly impartially. Like you said, it doesn't matter who he is. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister for Public Administration, Mr Boštjan Koritnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u236	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. I am pleased to say that in the last two years, since I am a Member, the only member of the Lower Podravje, who regularly attended all the regular meetings of the College of Mayors of Lower Podravje. Now I'm gonna tell you why. Because in these colleges you learn firsthand from this local environment, or from the mayors, what is bothering them, what is going on, or what is going on, and what is going on. The mayors and the mayors complain that, unfortunately, many times the state forgets them, even when it comes to investment investments, which the state is supposed to co-finance under the Law on Community Financing. I was also warned in some of the last colleges, of course they are happy that the averages will rise or go up, but that there will still be too little about the average, that they are still too small, even for the smaller municipalities that are in some development deficit. Now, actually, I'm going to describe to you the problem most of the time in these colleges. Here's the thing. The Law on the financing of municipalities in this co-financing of investment projects of municipalities by the state budget actually affects the developmental weakest municipalities. You yourself know that the system of funds for co-financing investments for municipalities has been adopted with the primary aim of allowing developing communities to access European funds. The financial crisis started to break down, and after 2016 the country introduced a system of repayable and recoverable assets. Now, basically, it's a problem. Such a system of repayable and nonrefundable resources, which most affect the weakest developed congregations, is long - term insurmountable, since small congregations are always more indebted. In this case, when it comes to reimbursements, the State is essentially acting as a lender to these municipalities. Although these municipalities are trying to repay the loans as soon as possible, they will no longer be able to benefit from such a system of repayments because they simply will not be able to repay the instalments of these state loans. Now I want to know: How and when will you take action to amend the Law on the Financing of the Communities and of this notorious article 23? This is the article that has the greatest impact on the developing world’s weakest congregations. What was the total amount of the reimbursements or state loans allocated to the municipalities from 2016 to today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u238	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I absolutely agree. It's very useful to hear first-hand mayors. I can say that we have a working group meeting on local self-government on Monday. As soon as the term of office took place, I agreed with the mayors or representative associations of the municipalities that we would meet every three months; and this is now very intensive. One of the points for Monday is the funding of municipalities. As you yourself mentioned, the average rose this year and, as the mayors themselves mentioned, this is not enough to cover all the tasks they have to perform in accordance with the laws. What is crucial is that the Law on Community funding at systemic level provides additional funding for co-financing of investments as well. Investments in local public infrastructure and investments are of particular importance, i.e. those included in the plans for community development programmes. I have no concrete data since 2016, because unfortunately I have received this issue now. But we'll look into it and relay it to you. However, I have specific information that it is possible for the municipality where the Italian or Hungarian national communities live to be provided with funds, which amounted to 0.15% of the total eligible consumption of municipalities. This was in 2020 – 1.8 million euros. And it is possible to do so, of course. However, all municipalities are subject to Article 21 of the Law in the state budget of 6 % of the total eligible expenditure. In view of the transitional provisions, this is made up of 4% of grants and 2% of reimbursements. However, the good side or good aspect is that since the average has risen this year, there are also more of these investment funds. This year, therefore, €51.4 million is non-refundable and €25.7 million is reimbursed. This provision in the law is implemented by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Then there is another possibility of co-financing investments to municipalities with joint municipal administrations, which is a large majority, 52 joint administrations bringing together 202 municipalities. For this purpose, we will be paying 6.1 million euros by the end of the year. As you know, just before the proceedings in the National Assembly, there is also a law on the financial burden of municipalities, which will in some way relieve the financial burden of the municipalities for those tasks they perform; and this will also be possible for investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u240	Thanks again for saying that. If I understand correctly, you will actually be discussing at this meeting the amendment of this Financing Act. I understand, I will give an average example of a small congregation that, for example, has been in debt or indemnified to make a recovery of EUR 511 000 in the last five years in order to be able to carry out this co-financing. In this case, the problem is that they are paying off these meals and are unable to afford or settle other matters. But there is another matter, you have mentioned very well that it will also go in this direction, that obviously, if I understand correctly, debts or these repayables will be written off, which they now owe. [[advertising from the hall]] Okay. Since we are proposing a number of things in the opposition, and then you do not accept them in the coalition, I will risk suggesting that you can arrange it when you change this law; it will be increasingly difficult in the rebalancing of these municipalities, who are, on the basis of the financial weakness, to write off the repayments or the interest they have. And another issue is when you mentioned this 6% and 4%. In fact, 6% is supposed to be in 2022? Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u242	Thank you. As it is said, this working group for local self-government was intended to hear firsthand what the mayors are burdened with, what limits their development programmes most. When we drew up these so-called PKP laws, what they wanted was to raise the proportion of the debt that the municipalities had enabled. This was then raised in line with their proposals. I am pleased to say that the financial situation of the municipalities is relatively good, so unlike some flat-rate estimates that they are over-indebted on average, this did not apply. This was once again one of the measures that allowed for more proactive investment behaviour at a time when we really need investment. Certainly, as we say, we will listen on Monday if they have any further comments and suggestions. We are looking for ways to make their activity as easy as possible, of course taking into account all the public funding requirements.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Korazia, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u244	As I have told Mr Visiak before, I will say the same to Mr Koritnik. When it comes to finding some better solutions or maintaining a better state of affairs for these municipalities, because I actually have to admit, and we have the mayors of the former mayors, I think that too often we talk about this local or local self-government, about municipalities in general. I think it is right for us to have a broader debate on this subject in this national assembly once again, so I propose that we hold a debate on this subject. Since Mr Koritnik is also now explaining that meetings will take place or that discussions will also take place on this issue, it would also be good if a wider round table could be organised in this national assembly and that matters could be said. The mayors and the mayors would like to say a few things directly, but then they say things over certain lines, but unfortunately they don't come to the National Assembly. Otherwise, I'd be happy to have their lawyer in this case if it's a better situation for the congregations. If we also have local self - government or congregations better organized, we will all have something better to live on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday in the framework of the vote. Now, Mr Nik Prebil will ask Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u246	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues and ministers! Dear Minister Gantar, you took over your post on 13 March this year, but at the time of your ministry you were, or at least in the public eye, such an impression that you are somehow inactive. I understand that during the crisis, certain things could not be prepared, but we would expect that, at least in the summer, the Ministry could draw up a plan or bring a more concrete solution to the table. However, in recent months we have been able to monitor you more than your client's representative and a fighter for the supremacy of Desus. In health care that is already facing severe problems without an epidemic, new problems have accumulated, and the situation is worrying. I think the health department still spends too much money. You said that health needs at least €220 million from the budget, that there should be an additional 200 in the health treasury, and you provided them with a balance sheet, otherwise that is a lot of money, only 140 million. On the other hand, we see that only three hospitals of 14 are not in red numbers. During the time of the declared epidemic, health care has virtually stopped. Those emergency health services were carried out, although perhaps many might be necessary, and all the rest actually remained. But I do wonder, and probably because of covid we still have those cancer patients who need early detection of their disease. In the first seven months, as we have heard today, more than 30,000 acute hospital treatments were carried out less than last year. I want to know: How are you gonna make it up to me? We know that waiting periods will continue, but we know that there are no or we cannot obtain them due to poor conditions. And another consequence of covid – the health system is becoming increasingly closed. A number of people who don't have their own general doctor can't even get to him anymore. And the fact that you're calling the mayors and health agencies to get more phone calls so people can call, that's funny, because we're all paying for health insurance, so we can get to the services when we need them. Today, the President of the Government also responded to health-related questions. He said that an exemption from the pay system is being prepared because doctors are going to work in Austria where they are better paid. I want to know: Are you aware of this, and what is your opinion? We know that the Ministry of Public Administration has already strongly opposed this mandate. However, there will be no mistake, you have also shown some results, but somehow there is a feeling that others have taken over your mission during the epidemic. People want to know what you're gonna do to make things better in health. This is not only about me, but also about those who address me with questions about the health situation. I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u248	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you also for the questions, you've strung them so many that I can talk for the next 2, 3 hours, which unfortunately won't work. The fact is that Slovenia was seventh among 166 countries after the success of controlling the epidemic and that it is still – with only Italy declaring a practical danger throughout Europe when compared with neighbouring countries – still one of the best results. The fact is, this is the problem of a health system that has been weakened in previous years. We have been talking about the necessary changes for 20 years and, of course, the shortcomings of this health system and the country's attitude towards health have been revealed in all past years. I'm not talking about controlling the epidemic. During the summer, several steps have also been taken in this area, from the State Plan, the Ministry of Health Plan, the Health Preparedness Plan, as well as the operators, which we are currently implementing in practice; but perhaps we would also go to the other part, in fact the one we are worried about. We are somewhere in the grip of control on one side of the epidemic and on the other side of accessibility to health services or waiting periods. And here I must first say that even in all these successful years, waiting periods have increased since 2013 when I left the ministry, and to date more than ten times. This, of course, is due to wrong or non-stimulating measures in all past years. That is why we are now also solving the complexities and problems that have accumulated earlier. Of course, there is no point in talking about the frame now, since no one can tell the story overnight, not the right number of doctors or nurses. However, we can try to hack into the organisation and we can try to involve operators as much as possible in order to make access to health really more accessible. With regard to numbers, you have data that are a little out of date, which no longer holds, including business and provision of the necessary funds and projections of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, which are different. In fact, it is almost impossible to calculate there because it does not even know what the actual loss of income or inflows of resources will be and on the other hand what will be the realisation. Both have a key impact on performance. In addition, we provide all the additional money needed for this year and additionally everything that has been added to the cost of infection or covid. From this title, the operation of health establishments will not be made more difficult, on the contrary. The annex ensures, despite the difficult situation, that wage imbalances are eliminated as one of the key factors for the problems of health institutions that have accumulated over the past years, even in the last few years, with a significantly more favourable financial situation. I think that, on the one hand, within the framework of the possibility, we are establishing a fairly correct, normal functioning of the system, which, as we would like, is probably not going to be for a while, because it can't be. Since we can't guarantee everything overnight, you need to know first and foremost that I don't have the money and probably not the finance minister himself, but that it will have to be provided with a different job throughout the country for health care. And decide whether we want to spend more money on health care, which is necessary, given what we promise in all these years. So my first task must be to reduce waiting times and continue to control the epidemic. But now that time is up, I'll tell you something further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr Nick Prebil has a request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you for your answer. To avoid misunderstandings, I never claimed that nothing was done or that you did nothing, but you said that money was guaranteed by the government and, on the other hand, from the ground, I received different information that there were problems, that there were also payments of allowances, that although there was a charge on the supervisors to pay this allowance after they paid it, some even had to pay it back if the hospitals did not have the money to pay it back or did not get it back. I don't know exactly. Don't take my word for it. But it's obvious there's trouble. I am also concerned about all that is going on, that the greatest harm will be suffered by this very public health care that we are all talking about, and that someone else will start to manage it in the background. That is why I also asked you that there was a very strong impression at the outset that you were more involved with party interests than with your own ministry, although in Tarča you now ensured that it would be different for you to give priority to the Ministry; that due to such or different interests to health care you would allow the way to a certain privatisation. And at this point, I expect you, as Minister of Health, to be assured that this will not be the case. We're facing problems that aren't from today, but they've been around for quite some time. In this place where you're sitting now, you've been and you know about these problems. Slowly there will be enough talk about what needs to be done; and slowly there will be something to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u252	Mr Member, when you were on vacation, the Ministry of Health worked, prepared two system laws and all the necessary plans to allow you to remain calm today and sit here in this Chamber. The Long-Term Care Act has not been introduced and the day for public treatment of the last years I do not know how many years, the Law on Infectious Diseases is a logical consequence of the epidemic. As far as providing the necessary resources is concerned, the fact is that the annex to the general agreement could not be adopted without a financial basis, there is a need for a rebalancing, a corona package is needed and a new law on the implementation of the budget is needed where the necessary resources are provided. And even in the preceding period, we provided operators with the payment of 80% of the unrealised programme due to the epidemic period, precisely because of their financial security, when the regular programme could not be implemented. It would be difficult to accept the obvious that we did not care for contractors, which I think will also result in a more successful conclusion of the year. And, of course, I don't see any special problems with this address. However, the fact is that we are providing additional resources from several mechanisms, especially at the moment of the European REACT mechanism, to facilitate the operation of health services, to purchase medical equipment, to reward employees and so on. I think, given the current situation, it's well taken care of in this part. The second part awaits us when the operators, even if they will have to have paid programmes, including all these services that are needed, carry out and perform, which they will have to be available this year and next year. I am sure that we will be more successful than in recent years, given that, as I have already said, the waiting period has increased tenfold, and not during the epidemic. I must say that we have also been supportive of many ministries, including working at home for older people as a key work, we have contributed greatly to the fact that the situation today is significantly better. And I hope we'll be successful in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Comrade Prebil, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u254	Thank you very much. I'll be brief, just let me start off before I make my procedural proposal, one brief comment on that. Minister, thank you for your answers. I didn't get some, but, as it were, this topic is really wide. We're not going to argue about what anyone's been doing. It turns out that at this time, many who don't know your field got involved in your work, and in the public eye, there was a feeling of what it was like and what I told you at the beginning. Yes, there will have to be a wide range of measures in health care to reduce waiting periods and provide additional funding. Above all, I want to put things back in place as soon as possible, or at least partially as they were before this new coronary epidemic, to establish, as must be done, those preventive programmes that are crucial for patients to come to a rapid conclusion of their disease conditions and thus to remedy or eliminate the disease as soon as possible. Because, as it is said, this is a topic that requires a truly in-depth discussion, and I believe that in this national assembly we should discuss it, and this in-depth, not ideologically-respected Vice-President Tanko, please put this matter to the vote so that the National Assembly can hold a debate on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 September, in the framework of the votes. Now it is the turn of Member Jani Prednik to ask the Minister of Finance of Mags a question. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u256	Dear Vice President, all present and ministers, one nice greeting! At the first public publication of the proposals of the Government Strategic Council for Debarcation, I note that most of the measures do not relate to reducing bureaucratic or administrative barriers. Instead, the content of most of the government's publicly available proposals is aimed at reducing taxes, especially for owners of larger assets and recipients of those with higher wages. Social Democrats as well as myself, of course, welcome any progress in removing bureaucratic barriers that are sometimes unnecessary and in simplifying complex and repeated administrative procedures. On the other hand, I find it far more difficult to understand how these efforts are linked to plans for a general tax reduction, which will not only facilitate the lives of the most powerful beneficiaries of lower taxes but will also result in a tax evasion for which no compensation has been found by the Government Council. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, What does lowering taxes have to do with simplifying administrative procedures? How much will the planned measures reduce tax revenue, and in what way do you intend to replace them? Does the State of Slovenia intend to take into account the OECD and European Commission recommendations, which not only advises us on the tax burden of work, but also on the increase in taxes on property and capital ownership? I thank you for all the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much for your question, Member Jani Prednik. With regard to the Strategic Council for Debarcation and also with the presentation of measures in the tax, economic and environmental fields, I would say the following. The Strategic Council has done a great deal of work, made its proposals and these proposals will now be addressed through ministries. The proposals will be dealt with both in substance and financially and what this actually means for the tax system or for Slovenian taxes. Some proposals relate exclusively to administrative facilitation, and some proposals also have a financial impact in a negative and positive direction. In fact, from this point of view, these proposals are. At the Ministry of Finance we will examine them, I must say that we have not yet seen them from all angles, and we have not examined them from this point of view what they are actually bringing. We will certainly examine them primarily from an administrative point of view, and they are certainly welcome to you. According to the collective agreement, there is also a specific group at the Ministry of Finance which analyses the entire tax system, including within the framework of material provisions. These proposals will certainly help this group to see from this point of view what this really means. If I answer your questions directly, whether the lower taxes are administratively simpler, I can say that in so much because people pay them easier or less with less burdens. On the other hand, lower taxes also mean greater competitiveness. Here I can say peacefully that taxes in one way or another increase prices. And the fact that taxes increase prices doesn't like people or businesses. High taxes are even more so because they are actually passed on to the final consumer, they are also increasing prices. However, there is a need to look at competitiveness from the point of view of the international comparison. Certainly, in terms of increased spending, these financial resources must be provided here on the one hand with appropriate tax rates and, in particular, with appropriate tax bases. In doing so, I also think that the exemption is as low as possible and that taxes are as general as possible. Taxes become complicated when we have a number of provisions, for example with regard to reliefs, and so on, where conditions are laid down, who can benefit from this relief, complicated, more or less complicated; and this certainly reduces administrative simplicity. We are talking here about the administrative ease of taxes. Some say that every 20, 30 years a government comes to clean up all these reliefs and exemptions, makes the tax base very easy, and then, for the next 25 or 30 years, with various changes in the legislation, these reliefs multiply and, of course, complicate the tax system. However, it is necessary to see here the tax system in its entirety how to tax work on one side and on the other, what you say here is about capital and work in the same tax situation. In other words, capital and work should be taxed approximately the same, meaning that if the tax system is neutral, it would not give an advantage to the labour-intensive industries on the one hand and to those that are capital-intensive on the other. This is what the OECD and the European Commission are saying. These are general principles. Once again, these measures proposed by the Strategic Council for Debarcation will also be examined from a financial perspective.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. President, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u260	Thank you for your word. Mr Minister, the fact is that you have actually answered me in a way that you have not answered me anything, but to a certain extent I understand this because you yourself have said that the government has not even addressed these proposals. From this I also conclude, as you yourself have said, that there is no analysis of how much more or less certain tax reduction measures would bring to the budget. But let's say, Mr. Minister, that we assume that the purpose of lowering certain taxes on the most wealthy is to make the country more profitable. But what will you do if, after these measures have come into practice, the country becomes less taxed? This means a certain loss of tax revenue and this is likely to present a certain problem for the system. And if at the end of the line you see that this seizure is less, what will be the next steps? However, I understand that the Government has not yet considered this and that there is some specific debate on this issue that we cannot even have today.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, would you like to respond? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u262	Thank you. The ministries will now examine these proposals, evaluate them, as they are proposed; and based on what I have already said, we will incorporate them immediately, determined later, perhaps we will not be what we will be. That's what you said. In other words, these proposals, whichever will then be put into the legislative process, will be such as to ensure sufficient financial expenditure, ease in the direction that public finances, for the first time, are stable and, for the second time, also adapt to the state in which we are today. We will also have to reduce the deficit we have today within a certain period of time or actually have to come to zero. We also need to present this to the Fiscal Council. And all these measures will actually go this way. But if you ask me now why some countries do, and here too, one such measure is proposed, let's say in the case of income over some very high amount, let's say that this is a million euros or 10 million euros, and then they have a degressive rate of 10%, if that's what you mean. This is, of course, so that many rich people – in fact, who are rich – are often, or often leave the country and go to the so-called tax haven, which means that residence is transferred, for example, to Monaco, this is a very well-known country, and of course there is nothing from such a state. But it can actually attract people like this. Some countries do, others do not, some do, some do, so that profit is taxed with a degressive rate, especially that high profit, which they sometimes had in the United States and I think they still have. Countries here have different ways to prevent rich or richer from leaving the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Mr. President, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u264	The Minister, since we have actually found that there are no analyses yet, no figures, I would not at least ask for a general debate on this point at this point, because I predict that we will address this issue in the future when the Government will make all the analyses and submit them to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u265	Thank you very much. You've been very helpful. This response was also unnecessary and not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Ambassador Jože Lenart will ask Health Minister Tomaž Gantar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u266	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister Tomaž Gantar, in the draft amendment to the Law on Infectious Diseases coming to the National Assembly, you simply shut down hospitals or, I say, regional microbiological laboratories established because of the need for safe treatment that operates at the highest level of international standards and has a 20-, 30- or even 50-year tradition; and now, a respected minister, when due to the presence of SARS-COV-2, such a laboratory is even more important for the rapid verification of the condition of patients in a particular health institution. What is the essence of the microbiological laboratory for a regional hospital that is far from the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food, which is now in operation or which you are proposing in the future? The essence is in rapid testing and thus diagnosis of infectious diseases, including covid-19. The own laboratory shall carry out a test within one hour, but if it is necessary to send mandatory swabs to the national laboratory, the test process shall be carried out within 24 hours. Are you aware that hospital laboratories or their employees in the current covida-19 epidemic have played a decisive role in their hospitals and especially in nursing homes in the region and beyond? The National Laboratory did not play this role; we were able to monitor it from the public media. All three hospitals now operating with their own microbiological laboratories are part of a public network and perform all tasks at the national level are also part of the European Invasive Infection Network. The laboratories are involved in external controls, which find that they achieve above average results in Slovenia. It is important that all departments in hospitals have the possibility of rapid action to control communicable diseases, especially in covidu-19 for which there is not yet a vaccine. In Europe and around the world, clinical microbiological laboratories are part of hospitals. Dear Minister, first of all, I ask you as a doctor and also as a Minister of Health: Will you allow regional hospitals to lose hospital microbiological laboratories with this law, which are now very helpful to them for rapid and effective action, laboratory diagnostics and their rapid infestation? Are you aware that such reckless measures cause stress to medical teams by taking away their safe treatment tools and reducing the safety of patients? This is as if the drivers were taken from a computer display that shows them any possible defects on the car safely so that they can act on time to prevent a halt or a traffic accident. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u268	Thank you, Vice President. I also thank you, honourable Member, for the question. Things aren't as simple as you show them, not by any chance. The proposal included in the Infectious Diseases Act is also an expert proposal, not me as a minister who is not an expert in microbiology, although as a doctor. The proposal takes into account the real possibilities, as well as the experience of this epidemic that we have faced and is still dealing with the infections that we are facing. The law is at public level, which means that any expert opinion can be taken into account if such opinion is taken into account. In part, however, the possibility is also included that the Ministry of Health, on a proposal from the Health Council, can expand this public network. It should be known, however, that not only does the microbiological laboratory network mean clinical diagnostics as performed in hospitals, but it is somewhat broader. It is also a matter of carrying out public health microbiological activities, it is the tasks of reference laboratories, it is also a response to exceptional events such as this one with covid. We need to know that on the one hand we have a limited number of trained personnel, because unfortunately not everything is qualified for such investigations, just as it is for the Coronavirus. It is also necessary to have appropriate equipment. Of course, there are many different equipment available for testing for covid, of which the method is reliable, practically still one alone. And qualified laboratories in Slovenia are something within the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food, which operates 24 hours a day, and the Institute for Microbiology, which also operates 24 hours a day. These two laboratories are likely to carry out 80 % of all investigations in the country, which does not mean that some other laboratories are not included. So. And right now we've re-engaged in this area of coordinator, because we're increasing the number of tests, at the time of the epidemic there were about a thousand 500, now we're talking about 3,000 500 tests a day. However, it should be known that these laboratories must have appropriate references, appropriate method, appropriate experts, as a miscalculation can also mean disaster in this area. If there are arguments for spreading this network to hospitals that I think can diagnose for their needs or patients who are being treated there, if these reasons are big enough, I have no problem extending this network. However, it is, once again, related to personnel, costs and, of course, relevant certificates that work is done in a qualitative manner, because we cannot go beyond that. On my part, there is no problem here, for which there is public treatment and I expect and the profession has also come forward. I believe that's why you're asking the question, and I believe we'll find the right solution for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Comrade Lenart, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u270	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. In this sense, I have also expected it and it is fair that the novel is coming to the debate and the profession has begun to advertise or to advertise for almost a year, as far as I am aware. They also costly note that these laboratories in these hospitals or regions, as I say, are much cheaper than the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food. Madam Minister, of course, I expect you to face the profession in this area again, as you yourself have said in part, because the hospitals that are shaken by such proposals of the draft law have clearly warned you months ago that this is a major step back in the procedures for the safe treatment and safety of patients. All these three centers that operate, they have personnel, they have equipment. From this I conclude that, as Minister of Health, we should advocate that this network be well-protected for all regions in Slovenia, so that other hospitals in Slovenia can also have rapid access to rapid and effective tests or diagnostics. Please also, the hospital in Koroška, where I come from, where I was also well acquainted with this professional issue, have also called a meeting with all the mayors in the region. They want support at all ends. And if it is your interest to complete our oral answer today with a written reply, please kindly prepare this by the end of the day by tomorrow if it is your interest to go further into this area, so that even at this meeting of mayors, where the current director, the professional director of the hospital will be present, they will also get to know more. And as for our conversation today, I'm going to introduce them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u272	Of course, decisions of this type are really important professions and arguments, but at least I hope that, to a substantially lesser extent, the policy of what is meaningful and where, because we always say that we see the patient in the background, and we want everything that is done around the patient to be safe and that it has defined quality standards. At the moment, the apparatus in Slovenia is not enough. We have offered an opportunity for some hospitals to be able to diagnose this in the framework of the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food, which would lead inside the hospital and have room available. Sometimes they take advantage of that option, sometimes they don't. However, this method of PCR, which is most reliable, is one which is unlikely to be established anywhere in the future. It's expensive apparatus that can process a very large number of samples at the same time. It is pointless to activate them half-empty, but once again, I am counting here on the positions of the profession that will have to face them in some way; and then I have no problem with what the final proposal will be in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Can we move on? Yeah. Ambassador Violeta Tomic will ask Health Minister Tomaž Gantar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u274	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister Tomaž Gantar, as you can see, we have been looking forward to this fall session, because citizens and citizens have so many questions, so many doubts and fears; and we are here on their behalf to ask you certain questions. I've listened to your previous questions and your answers, and I'd like you to commend us for being among the best in dealing with covido. Probably because this covida-19 epidemic has stopped the world and in Slovenia we have beaten it relatively well precisely because of the well-functioning public health system, commitment and sacrifice of health workers and health workers. The second problem is that true psychosis has been created and all other diseases have been ignored. That's unacceptable. Patients do not receive timely diagnosis and treatment. The percentage of people dying from other diseases, such as heart attacks, strokes and timeless cancer detection, is already well above the number of covidoma-19 deaths. And here is definitely not the fault of the medical staff, nor of the management agencies, as we would sometimes like to show, but directly to you, the minister who gives them such impossible instructions. I agree with you that you have to decide on these things of the profession, not politics at all, but then we see Nate's former official, who scares people from TV audiences with statements that are, to put it mildly, very inappropriate. But it becomes increasingly clear to us that in the background there is a scenario for the degradation of public health and its privatisation, when only the richest ones can afford treatment. According to the U.S. system, people with severe disease diagnosis would rather take their own lives than sell their families and children a home to pay for treatment. Despite the fact that the end of this epidemic was announced in May and you were expecting this second wave, you did nothing to equip homes for the elderly and for health care with additional necessary personnel. That's why I'm asking you: Why haven't you done nothing since you were a minister to provide additional staff and additional facilities to carry out healthcare activities? Have you been indifferently waiting for all these months just so that you can now propose full liberalisation and privatization of health care? Why did you not, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Infectious Diseases at the time of the epidemic, draw out all private spatial capacities? After all, it is capacity such as the Pink Valley Surgical Sanitation and the Ptuj Diagnostic Radiological Center, which are now being sold for fat money. What exactly are you going to do to get people to a doctor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u276	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you for the question, too, it's important. We can make accusations. You can accuse me, but the fact is, I've been alerting myself all those years now to the shortcomings of the public health system, the lack of personnel, the lack of money. Unfortunately, the state has not decided in recent years that it would be different. And if you expect me to witness so many new doctors, nurses, or new homes in three months, that's not going to work. Unfortunately, that's not in my power. Even waiting days that are a problem. I must say that over the entire period we always have on the scale on one side the reduction of waiting periods and on the other hand the limitation of infections. And unfortunately, many times we do not understand that the more we manage infections, the more the health system will be available and capable of other services. Here is not only a problem of capacity and bed for covidal patients, there is a problem of infecting health workers, workers in homes and so on if they do not stick to it. And there are significantly better or better health systems that have been recognized here definitively during the time of the epidemic, which is not what we have. On the other hand, it is necessary to know that from 2013 until the end of 2019, in good times economic growth and everything, waiting periods have increased more than ten times. And we're saving it today. Indeed, they also increased in these two months when we had to limit the system because we did not know the disease. Today we are trying not to do this anymore, but this depends on our discipline as to how we will manage the infections under the usual measures that control them. You're talking about paying, how we're going to solve waiting times. I don't see any more privatisation or health problems than now when people have to, in order to come to the service, go to the private and pay out of their pocket; but we just want to allow them in this part to be engaged by all doctors and that the same person, when he comes to him, will not pay out of his pocket. But it bothers you that a private person will, of course, make a profit out of it. However, I am concerned — as opposed to you — about the patient who needs to come to a timely service. And if in the public system, once again, in a good time of economic growth has not only been able to shorten but has dramatically extended the waiting period, then now is the time to stop playing with it. And I advocate a public health system, I've always worked in public health, but it's not easy this way anymore, because there are too many anomalies in the public system, from the pay system, to the organisational work, to the law on public institutions. A bunch of things that aren't the primary or the department of the Ministry of Health. And so don't expect in this part of the miracle. Our goal is – and we will achieve – shorter waiting periods because the patient is the first. And we'll reach them. If you haven't reached them in six, seven years or not, we'll be able to reach them now. At the time of the biggest economic crisis, the waiting periods were the shortest in the period 2012-2013. Today, not because of the epidemic, we are talking about the problems of patients who are real and who are worried about me, so we have now prepared an annex to the general agreement. Not only will the call be prepared where additional incentives are included mainly in the public network, the programme of specialist outpatient activities to be paid in full, until implementation, not only in the framework of the programme recorded, will pay for a 10% overrun of the programme plan in various specialties, those that are the most critical, stimulated first checks with an additional payment, which will achieve – 20% of the additional payment. I'm talking about the public network. But they have to work, they have to be organized, and they will have to start working; but they will be able to work if we control the infections with the coronavirus.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u278	Minister, this is not an accusation on my part. This is your objective responsibility. I also have a case of non-treatment at home and it was not a long waiting line, it was a complete abandonment of treatment that had disastrous consequences for the health and life of the patient, especially the elderly. And I don't know who here assures us that with your calls waiting periods will really be eliminated, because waiting lines haven't disappeared because the concession system has rotted because concessionaires are simply unfair competition that creates the internal market. Doctors have spent more than 60 thousand hours, but that doesn't really matter. How long will your fire-fighting measures work, and what happens after the public money runs out and you're no longer secretary? I also ask you about the double criteria for security measures as the infection spreads. We understand that distances and masks are necessary, but we do not understand that some of us have to implement these measures, especially those which are prescribed for us and do not. We see ministers mowing grass on their weekends, government representatives walking during quarantine, visits by foreign statesmen taking place without a safe distance, while cultural life goes completely out. Concerts, which are very rare, are performed with 500 people, but we have, say, Brez novels, where more than 3,000 are gathered, and no one is troubled. Then there is the repression of children in schools and kindergartens, although the source of the infection may be a parent or an old parent who attended some mass romance. In short, people are justifiably angry and it is no wonder that conspiracy theories are spreading, because the guidelines give us politics and not professions. Here's your responsibility, exclusively here. Because I'm curious: How do you expect citizens to respect something you are violating and playing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u280	The instructions, of course, give an expert. I think we have the most professional people at our disposal in this country, and we also cooperate with other countries that are taking practically identical or very similar measures, except at the beginning of the epidemic, where we were hunting around the world and did not know what covid-19 actually represents. And here I must first deny that we have abandoned the diagnosis and treatment during the epidemic. The instructions were strict, all the levels necessary, ZELO HITRO, oncological services, pregnant women and some others were also followed during the epidemic. That work could have been done slower, that people were afraid to go to hospitals themselves, that's a fact. However, it is necessary to know, once again, that if we do not succeed now in managing infections without closing the country, then we will have major health problems again and also in other systems. For we need to know that most of the entries, let this be in the homes, let this be in the hospitals, are brought to the employees. Employees who can hang out, unresponsibly or irresponsibly may happen, but enter an infection into an institution that must be closed in a segment at least. That is why we appeal all the time, politics and above all the profession. Here I think we have given enough weight to experts in this field, and I can thank most people who, despite everything, respect the measures – again, to an increasing extent. And that's the only way and the way the health system will work in the future, that we won't close schools and everything else. I just don't see any other options, and that's an opinion of the profession, not just my personal opinion. And in the same way, believe me, other countries do. Europe is fully declared a dangerous area, we are fully aware of what is going on throughout Europe. Slovenia is still within Europe among the better countries, as far as this is concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u282	My procedural proposal is to hold a debate at the next meeting on this, because the previous discussions have shown that this is absolutely necessary. Minister, you see from your cabinet things as they should probably be and as they probably are in your head. But in the field, in hospitals, in health homes, where I've unfortunately spent the last six months, I'll tell you that the picture is completely different. And here is also this call for more response to ordering phone calls that you sent to the mayors, totally pointless if one nurse has to provide patients, assist the doctor and still receive calls. Problems need to be solved differently. Your answers really didn't convince me. Although they seem very beautiful and empty, your actions seem to be flawed. And you're going to make history as a man who broke a solidarity public health system that's been proud of us for years. I will say that, even according to the client you are from, we should take more care of the elderly at this time, and we know that they have very poor conditions in their homes and that the health system to them is very macho right now. That is why I really demand that a general debate be held on where we came with health care during the co-vide time and how many victims we had to accept so that we could manage this epidemic as you say we did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 September, in the framework of the votes. Ms Mateja Udovč will ask the Minister for Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac and the Minister for Environment and Space mags. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u284	Dear Minister! Since 1996, the municipalities of Kranjska Gora and Bovec have been looking for solutions regarding the organisation and competence of road traffic management across the Vršič mountain crossing. The competent national authorities call for the resolution of the impossible traffic conditions, which are particularly evident during the summer season. Visitors and transit passengers stop their vehicles on the road, thereby obstructing traffic and endangering themselves and others. They walk around the road, take pictures, search for sanitation, look for food and souvenirs, and so on, and also dump garbage and pollute the environment. The municipalities are trying to ensure the transportability of this transition by regulating current and steady traffic. The tourists wanted to switch to public passenger transport, so they introduced subsidised tickets on the Kranjska Gora-Vršič-Bovec route and introduced a regular bus line active from 20 June to 30 August, also providing additional bus lines between June and September and additional lines on the new route Kranjska Gora-Trbiz-Bovec-Vršič and back. Despite all these efforts, during the summer months it often happens that due to dense traffic the Vršič crossing is completely untransportable. We even know the case when a helicopter had to transport a damaged mountain visitor to the valley, as the ambulance could not be brought to the top of the crossing. Vršič is in the Triglav National Park area and the road operator is the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, so they have called several meetings with the competent authorities to look together for possible solutions to the problem. Despite the annual meetings and I promise to find a systemic solution, nothing has changed in the last 24 years. In 2019, the competent Ministry of Infrastructure approached the preparation of documentation for the arrangement of the summit of the Vršič mountain crossing. Several meetings were called and project documentation was prepared to arrange existing parking spaces. In December 2019, the last meeting was convened, then cancelled, and apparently the project was stuck somewhere. A piece? During this summer season, Vrešič had a traffic heart attack again. Dear Minister, I ask you: Where are the barriers to road traffic through the crossings not to be regulated by stations, parking lots, sanitary facilities and the necessary infrastructure, following the example of comparable mountain crossings abroad? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Now, first of all, I give the floor to the Minister of Infrastructure, Jerne Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the question raised. Everyone who likes to go to the mountains and go there for example near the Masters and so on, where the mountains are also suitable for the family, is a simple hill, we are aware of this problem, what is the traffic situation in Vršič during the summer months. This is also known by the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure, which is the manager of this road across the Vrsič mountain crossing. In this regard, I must stress, as you yourself have mentioned, that things are going on. In January 2020, that is to say, this year, a project task was prepared and approved for the development of an idea design for the acquisition of project and other conditions for the reconstruction of the road, namely the Russian road, i.e. from Hotel Erika to Vršič, and Vršič-Trenta in a specific section; and at the same time the arrangement of parking lots. With this project task, it was planned to create an idea design for the acquisition of project and other conditions, stressing that the parking spaces are located, as well as these two sections, as well as the installation and installation of a time camera with a proposal for power options and so on. This waited for me, and in April 2020, the public procurement procedure for the selection of designers was also launched. We have completed this contract in June 2020 and work must be completed in full by January 2021. And then the procedures, how we will work together, what they promise you for 17 years, how this government will regulate, will then be completed and the start of other procedures for 7 years. Things have been going much faster since April 2020, i.e. with this government, and there is no longer any problem in order not to join the physical regime itself in the following year.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Now the Minister for the Environment and the Magi Space has the floor. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Dear Member, the Minister of Infrastructure has explained the chronology of the preparation of the documentation, which is, of course, the basis for implementation. In order to overcome this problem, the ILO has participated in the preparation of actions under the Climate Change Fund. A measure to promote the sustainable mobility of the nature conservation zone under the Climate Change Fund Programme 2020-2023 is in place and we have therefore also reserved funds. Once the appropriate project solution is confirmed, we can also approach it by implementing the Fund's title. Funding is also practically feasible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u289	Thank you very much. My colleague, Matey Udovč, has the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u290	Dear Minister, I am pleased, such positive answers are certainly in place and welcome, I welcome them, because there was really only a lot of talk about Vršič and nothing really happened. I welcome Jernej Vrtovac, who has told excellent news that the tender documentation is already under way, and Mr Viszak, who said that the funds were provided. I just want to hear one more time: Does this mean that the construction of parking lots, sanitary facilities and infrastructure that is urgently needed in Vršič will begin in the following year or in the next two years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Vrtovec, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u292	In April 2020, a public procurement procedure for the selection of designers was launched. The procedure for this contract was completed in June and the designer is now producing a project to be undertaken by the end of January 2021. That's a few months from now. And when this is done, then we'll go into other procedures. I wish we could be as quick as we can. But it is that the whole is arranged especially at the top of Vršič, which is now completely disorderly and parked so that sometimes a little wider car can not go along the road because the problem is parking left and right. These are procedures, I'd start building tomorrow, but I'm afraid it's not working. It's just a steady practice. But we're doing everything we can to make this real as fast as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Are you satisfied with the answer? Sure. Good. Then let's move on. Mr Željko Cigler has the floor to ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec Lipicer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Dear and respectable Madam Secretary! The primary school is compulsory under the Constitution and the law in Slovenia and the conditions must be provided by the state or ministry that you run. Primary school space has an extremely severe deficit, covidkrisa only gave him a peak on i. In my congregation she attends a school built for 250 pupils, 400 elementary school students. Here, covid conditions are impractical. I want to know: Why is it not the Government and you, too, have reached a decision on the rebalancing process, finding that completely unused funds for the public tender for the co-financing of investments in primary schools and kindergartens by municipalities in this year are fully transferred and spent in the coming year? Why have you not yet entered the invitation to co-financing of primary and kindergarten facilities in the last months of this year? At the same time, I'm asking you a question: Will you co-finance investments when you have an open invitation if you have to start investments this year? Secondly, I'd like to tell you that the computers, I've already told you, are badly lacking. You promised the principals in this document on the Hill, nothing happened. Thirdly, children with special needs. Here only direct contact with the child with special needs is possible, especially the one with autism, if he has a companion with him. This thing isn't guaranteed. Last year there were 479 such children. The teaching of children with special needs cannot be carried out remotely. That's what I'd like to tell you. They ask the principals because there's a lot of human resources in school if she's going to quarantine class, okay, she's going with the teacher. What if he goes to quarantine class on the subject level? These are all the teachers in question, and the school can be closed in such a case. And I'd like to continue by telling you this whole cleaning thing. Cleaning, radiation of spaces, disinfection between groups, this is one serious, maximum load of cleaning staff at schools. Schools need more resources to do this if they no longer have the capacity to recruit people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u296	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Ciegler! There are a few questions, I hope to be able to answer them all roughly, or we have two more rounds. First of all, the issue of financing or co-financing for the construction of new schools or the adaptation of existing schools. Indeed, due to the co-ordination, this investment money, which was foreseen for this year, has been transferred to the next financial year. The only and key reason, of course, was that because of the co-auditation, we were already on the school side and on the investor side at that stage, when somehow all the necessary construction and documentation was collected, we had already received a response that this would not be possible because of this situation. This would then mean that if we went in some way then, I could say, with our heads through the wall, and in spite of everything, we would try to keep the invitation, the invitation to tender could not be made on the side of the applicants, but we would lose the money at the same time. Here was the decision to obtain all the documentation in peace at this time and then to resume the call immediately with the next year's budget. And also this money that's supposed to be activated, of course, then it will be activated. So much is possible briefly from this point of view of infrastructure. Maybe just one more piece of information firsthand. What I see now that I attend a lot of schools. Schools, especially congregations, are also very powerful in helping with the present spatial tribulations where they occur. Certain parts of school or learning processes then take place in other, more suitable buildings where this is a problem. Schools also help each other; although they are not the same schools, they help each other with this area. I must say that there is one responsible awareness and cooperation, including at the local community level, in providing adequate infrastructure. We must not forget, however, that this infrastructure part, as far as schools and kindergartens are concerned, is also directly under the responsibility of the local community. So much for the subject. Then you asked me about the computers. I have good news for you. At that time, we were able to harmonise the three rules that had to be harmonised, namely, for jobs in primary schools, secondary schools and music schools. All three regulations will also be published on E-democracy this week, so that we can still collect appropriate responses to them; and then I expect to sign them immediately and become active. We are going to be more systematic with a few jobs. In primary schools we will be systematizing 162 more jobs after this proposal, and we will also have to provide some extra money for these purposes, but we absolutely know why we are doing this. Also proposed is a regulatory change in music schools for an additional 26.5 new jobs and so on. A little more demanding was the process in secondary schools, but we also took it away in cooperation with the Education Institute, of course we prepared these solutions as you said correctly, we also committed ourselves to doing so. The next question is related to the education of children or students with special needs. I want to say that this moment, the whole educational process for these students is also going according to model B, that this is the fundamental guide that we want to follow to the end or as long as the situation allows. Why? Because they come to school like a school space, so that together in the group they acquire knowledge and somehow we don't do it overly with an individual approach. At the same time, of course, we are also giving an individual approach or emphasis where this is necessary because of the learning and cognitive processes of these students. Then we also included additional advisors, teachers of additional professional assistance, in the drafting of tasks, instructions for students. We have really paid a lot of attention here, and also, as far as I have information, this moment is going well. As for the class or subject organization of work, in a few seconds, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u297	Thank you very much. My fellow Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u298	Thank you, Madam Minister, for the specific answers. But I'd like to be even more specific. You didn't answer my question: Are you going to have to build or re-build a kindergarten and elementary school space because of the great lack of space? This is about very big money. For the less prosperous, peripheral congregations, not urban ones, these are major problems. I would tell you this, 479 children in the last school year had special needs, mostly autistics who needed a date. Dear Madam Minister: How many children are provided with a companion in accordance with the decision on direction and individualised work programme prepared by his school for each child? I know you can't answer that right now, but you have accurate data, and every school comes to you because the decisions on the direction of the issue are made by the Education Institute. Please answer my question in writing: How many of these children can only last year, if I don't have a date for this year, and in what amount? Most escorts are provided in 0.62%, which is completely wrong. And you yourself have identified this in the previous term together with many other Members of the National Assembly. A companion's job with a child is to work with his entire support environment. I am saying this again because I hope that contracts will start to come true here once again. He does so with his classmates, with his teachers, with his doctors, with his parents, and, of course, with his student. And this direct contact between the student and the escort is a basic matter; if this matter is terminated, it is not right. Working with children with special needs for distance is therefore impossible. I hope that the Ministry understands this and that it will find an exit and an extraordinary treatment of such cases of children by providing work and teaching at primary school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Yes, as you said, regarding the number of students with special needs, we will provide you with accurate information in writing because I do not have it on my own right now. As far as the rest of this is concerned. Helping municipalities to co-finance the immediate construction of additional school, kindergarten infrastructure, not at this very moment. Next year, we will, as we say, activate these investment funds to 2021, which have been earmarked through the ordinary national budget. Then I would like to point out that now that we have withdrawn the invitation to tender due to co-ordination, it will be repeated immediately at the beginning of the year, that is one part of the story. Another part of the story, a few European calls and European project opportunities, is now opening to us. In all, it is possible to find a place for this co-financing and assistance in co-financing of construction, even here we are at government level in close cooperation with the municipalities, so that some of these infrastructure projects are already identified, which are practically ready to be implemented. We are also paying attention here, perhaps the Minister of the Environment could explain something further. As we say, we are also very careful with the Development and European Cohesion Policy and in cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure. And we open up, where possible, cooperation to activate this together with the help of the congregations. As for the performances themselves, however, this moment correctly indicates that a great mystery occurs when students and teachers are to be quarantined due to recognised infections at the level in question. We have quite a few hot spots this week. Three infections resulted in a situation where even 180 participants in the primary education process were quarantined. In one case and in another case almost 90. Why am I exposing this to all of you? Because there is only one more argument here, why this moment wearing a mask is really so important because of prevention. If this were to be done in a consistent manner, then this complicated moment would probably be smaller. And here is indeed once again a great request and a call all together that indeed in this sense the epidemiological-protection measures are very responsible, because we will all then be on the best path possible in the given circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Can I continue with the next round? Do you have a procedural proposal? You have a procedural proposal. Here, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u302	Thank you very much for Mrs Minister's very specific replies, but I think the matter is so important that I ask that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly conducts the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 September, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Matjaž Germany will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac and the Minister without a portfolio responsible for strategic projects and cohesion, Zvonku Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u304	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good evening, both present ministers. I am addressing you with a specific question from the Member States. I know that both of you are very familiar with the issue of the Bohinj Railway, this cultural and technical heritage of exceptional importance, not only for Slovenia, because it connects two regions, Primorska and Gorenjska, but also for the history of the entire connection between the Alps and the Adriatic, so between Austria, Slovenia and Italy, between Vienna and Trieste, if you will. It is an extraordinary historical heritage that has received a little more political attention in recent years. I must say, in the last five years, I have also personally joined the group of those who are in love with this track. Even in terms of strengthening the importance of this, it is not just about war, it is not just about sports and it is not just about religious tourism, it is not just about tourism, which is surrounded by exceptional landscapes, it is not just about an extraordinary natural heritage, such as the Soka Valley or the Path of Peace, a remarkable project that is actually spreading history and, above all, about brotherhood and memory among European nations. In the past December, 2019, we had an important meeting in the National Assembly with the Director of Slovenian Railways or Director of the Investment Sector and the Directors of Passenger Transport and, of course, with representatives of the operational initiative for the Bohinj Railway, consisting of Primorsev and Gorenjci, and of course, with us enthusiasts who want to revitalise the track in some way and only dream that once the Danube can get on the train and take this extraordinary and picturesque route to Gorica or Trieste. From this address, respected both, a round table was held in Nova Gorica a few days ago. We can only thank the initiators for this round table, but now for the facts. I am interested in your position and the possibility of further development with some measure of satisfaction that this love and awareness of this route can be practically transferred from government to government, especially in terms of activity. Now it's your turn, and please, if you can tell the general public: What was agreed in Nova Gorica? What is your further vision, of course, with the help of all of us, both operational initiatives and entouragers that we want to receive more attention? Just one more brief reminder. In the last five years, quite a few funds have been raised for this purpose, a ramp for trains has been built, and a railway station has been built in Solkan. So where are we going, Mr. Secretary-General? Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u305	Thank you very much. First, I give my word to Minister Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking. The Bohin trail is one of the most beautiful tracks in the Alpine world. Such a sight is hard to see anywhere else. For many years, I agree, she has been neglected. Since World War II, it has been underinvested. Let me say that even after talks with Slovenian railways in recent years this has been one of the more profitable routes, especially with the title of tourism, and it is really attractive. It has been mentioned that we have raised a lot of money in recent years. Let me say that the most important activities in this section were certainly car relations on the Bohinjska Bistrica-Nova Gorica route by building the necessary loading dock at Nova Gorica station, building a new station in Solkan. If you remember, the beach in Podbride was in Baska Grapa, as well as the rehabilitation of this beach has been arranged, the classification of a new car into a car that has a special part designed for the transport of bicycles. Above all, to say what I mentioned earlier, this removal or rehabilitation of the sub-bread plaza has also allowed for the regular detour of traffic along this route, if this is not regulated, then there would be no traffic on this route. As for the current plan, however, the Bohinian route is absolutely in the plan of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Currently, two projects are in the short term in the Infrastructure Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia, namely the adjustment of the rail scheme at the Bridge station in Soča, where the track number 1 is specifically regulated by track 4 on side A of the station and the adjustment of the safety device for direct imports of the train on track 1. This project also includes the renewal of the loading dock for the train. The estimated value of this intervention is around €350,000, almost €400,000 without VAT, so 350 together, say over $400. An important thing on this link is the establishment of a passenger link on the route Nova Gorica–Vrtojba–Gorica, which we also discussed with the director of the Slovenian Railways, including with the leadership of the DRSI. Last year, 150 000 Euros were invested in this project for the installation of the necessary signalling and telecommunications equipment at the Vrtojba-Gorica section. The estimated investment value for this part is the remaining EUR 300,000. Therefore, given that these are short-term projects of the DRSI, I expect that all the necessary funding will also be provided in due time. The weakness of this is that we cannot this track is really attractive in terms of tourism, but if anyone thinks that here will revive freight traffic and go this way, it will be very difficult to do this also because there is no TEN-T network here there is not even a former TEN-T network and so on. [[…]] However, this route is absolutely necessary to be revived because it is truly a natural sight, a unique railway line in the Alpine world of this type.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u307	Thank you very much. One more word to Black Bell. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u308	Thank you. Two questions were raised: how much resources are currently being allocated for revitalisation and how many are planned for a comprehensive overhaul by both ministries. Absolutely not enough, the SVRK plans nothing, given that it is a management body, and, as you know, does not create individual policies in specific areas. However, exactly as planned, Mr German, as far as you planned in the government coalition, which part of you were until recently, because the budget currently in force is not the budget of this government, but also the government in which you participated as a coalition partner. I would also like to say that I was at this round table on Wednesday last week, I missed you, there were two Members, Daniel Krivec and Elena Zawadlav Ušaj, both from the Slovenian Democratic Party. Interesting ideas were presented and I also said there that this is a project or route of regional importance. We've seen an example of how these things happen in Austria. If the Social Democrats had not withdrawn their support for the regionalisation project in 2007, today the provinces in Slovenia would have had, and I am sure that this route, as a track of regional importance, would have already been regulated.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Comrade German, please, you have the floor to complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u310	Thank you very much, Chairman. I have one question, which is intended only for Minister Jerne Vrtovac. I see with Mr. Black that there's no point in talking, because you don't get an answer, but you get an arrow, so let's go solve problems in our country. Mr. Wrotetz, you have responded very kindly and constructively, as is your custom. I have one question. You mentioned in part the so-called connecting ring. In fact, this ring would allow freight and passenger transport coming from the Italian side not to turn at the train station in Novi Gorica and then return to Sežana, but this ring would mean unloading the city centre mainly in an audible sense. So there'd be less sound pollution. You mentioned, in the past, the Italian side has provided considerable resources to enable faster, safer transport from the Italian side to work: How's that going? You mentioned it in the first place. Can we be optimistic? The Italian side – as far as I know, the funds are being provided – will soon begin its work. What more can you say about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Vrtovec, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u312	Frameworkally, in October we will have a document prepared by the Government, together with Slovenian railways, on the Slovenian railway network. This document will cover a study on the eligibility of regional lines and this regional link with neighbouring Gorica is absolutely justified – this is also assessed by Slovenian railways in the trans-shipment itself. That's why we're gonna turn it on. First of all, we will accept this document from the Government, which we have started to do, I think, on the 14th day of my mandate because we consider railway infrastructure and the modernisation of rail infrastructure, the upgrading of regional routes to a new climate policy, NPPN, permanent mobility and so on. To this end, let me also say that the Government is working and is making every effort, as well as substantial financial resources, including from the budget, from the Climate Fund – let me just say, now, on the mountain track – and that renewals are being done on the railway network. But we will finally have one comprehensive document, where and what we need to upgrade, and, let's say, this part is like that. I'm not going to talk about starting construction because it's not a placement and so on, it's not up to me, but I can say that things are moving forward here and we'll finally have a document that will define this new link or this arc. To go back. Financial resources – I may have said it more rashly, but for the first part of which I was talking about, 300,000 euros is the funds envisaged and the second part 350 thousand euros. So, this connection. Thus, certain funds are also foreseen on this Bohinian track, absolutely.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Is there anything else Minister Zvonko Blackach would like to add? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u314	Thank you very much. I did not answer the second part of the question, which was stated, what will be the actions of both ministries for the future so that the Bohinian track will be fully revitalized and fully revived? At the SVRK, as the managing authority, we will certainly follow the proposals of the intermediate bodies, in this case the Ministry responsible for transport, both with regard to other projects as regards the Bohinj railway. However, I can reiterate that the Social Democrats were in the last cohesion envelope, which is said to have been in three governments in 2013 and 2014-2020, and that no special moves have been made in this area in order to revitalize or regulate the route. So little for a joke, little for real, the best and the best we could do to make this Bohinian route a reconstruction in the next period, in the Austrian model, to stay in opposition for at least another 6 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u316	I would particularly like to thank Minister Jerne Vrtovac for the correct answers, but I think that Minister Cernač and his response should be taken seriously. I don't know why he's doing this, spreading lies, and therefore I think it's more than necessary to hold a debate, to actually show him that such ministers, who in this way approach a purely well-intentioned issue that solves a problem that is not just his own, but from all of us, need a thorough debate. I very much ask you, Mr President, to put to the vote my proposal for a debate to take place. Above all, I think it would be useful for Minister Chernač to get used to some basic education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u317	Thank you very much. We will put your proposal on record and your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 September, in the framework of the votes. Mr Željko Cigler will ask the Minister for Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac and the Minister for Environment and Space Mag. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Dear and respectable Minister Jernej Vrtovec! In response to my question about hydrological, geological and geomechanical research on route 3 of the development axis over Velenje mine, Mrs Bratušek replied to me that this analysis was done through the forecast of the landowners and measurements of Velenje Coal in the area of the planned route 3 of the development axis – where it goes over. [[Incomprehensible]] This document shows that the meetings in this area are still active, uneven and will be long-term. The answer in question was prepared by Mr Drag Bregar, Directorate for Land Transport, the road sector, that is to say you. When I'm 11. 9. asked for this document at your ministry, they directed me to Coal Velenje. The case was made with you. On the basis of this document, they gave me an answer. Just please, my question is: When can I expect this document from you, Mr. Minister? Dear Mr. Minister Mag. Andrej Vizjak. In the building permit of investor Dars for the new construction of the Gaberka connection area, section 3, 3 of the development axis between Velenje south and Slovenj Gradec is listed 36 plots of land, of which only four — I emphasise, Minister, only four — correspond to the plots of land listed in the State Spatial Plan Regulation. Some partial numbers in the building permit cannot be found in the State Spatial Plan. The building permit was issued by the Ministry of the Environment and the State Spatial Plan Regulation by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. If the plots in the building permit are not covered by the State Spatial Act, it is an unlawful intervention or a domestic black construction. So, Mr. Minister, I ask you: How do you justify the legal validity of the building permit issued by the Ministry of the Environment and the space you run because it cannot be tested because of the lack of conformity of the parcel numbers? Is this legal under the VAT Regulation adopted by the Government, which is legally a higher act under the legal hierarchy? How do you plan to eliminate this legal discrepancy in the administrative acts for this 9 million investment in Gaberka, the first part that will prejudge the course of the third development axis north by the most expensive and harmful option?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u319	Thank you very much. First, I give my word to Minister Jerne Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u320	I don't see any problem if you get a document from what your question was raised. The question of the letter – this is what you're saying about the one you've already asked Alenka Bratušek. I don't think that's a problem, because these are published things. Are you saying you can't get to the question of the letter, the document? Now I don't know which documents, because that wasn't the subject of the question, or I'd like to give you an answer today. You have set here what is the forecast of the landowners, the measurements of the Velenje Coal Mine, not this exact document. But I can tell you this in person once, how, if you tell me exactly what document this is about, let's see at what level this document is marked by who has it. If it is now in Velenje Coal, you will really have to contact them if it is not in our possession, but if the document depends on the degree to which the document is marked and what access to the public is then. [[…]] But I basically understand your question, so let me tell you something. I am very pleased that the 3rd development axis, the beginning of construction in Gaberkah, will begin in mid-October. This message came from Dars today. I'm very happy about that. And I am pleased that after this project there is now a second phase of the call for proposals, for the Jenin project, the Velenje – Slovenia Gradec road. This is the first part to be built in Koroška. So this government is doing the third development axis with as much power as it can. However, I am not a construction expert myself, and I do not think that I was in addition to the third development axis being designed and this from Velenj forward towards Slovenj Gradac, that I cannot comment on this, but in particular not on the measurement of Coal Velenje, forecasts of landowners and so on, and whether the eligibility of construction permit in this work is because these are things that have happened almost ten years ago, in particular this part of Gaberka–Slovenia Gradec, because decisions have fallen a long time ago. What's more, Jenna's gonna get started, there's a call coming out, we're waiting for a building permit, and next year we can plant the first shovel on Jenna. As for the document on land ownership and measurement – this measurement of the Coal mine, if I understood you correctly – if we have this document, I will look at the level it is marked with, and otherwise it will have to be any way to get to this document through the Coal. It depends, because I'm saying at what level this document is marked. As for the other questions, Darsa's building permit for the new construction in the Gaberk area, section D, building permit, you can answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u321	Thank you very much. The word is also given by the Minister for Environment and Space, Mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u322	Dear Member, just for a moment. The area of connection of Gaberka for which the ILO has issued a building permit shall not be located directly in the mining area. Pika. Neither the environmental consent nor the building permit issued contain specific requirements for the measurement of the possession, and therefore the ILO does not have any documentation relating to those holdings. So if you have any documentation on this, you would be very happy to do so, but this is not in the documents in force. I am surprised that you are opening this topic of post festivals when all the proceedings are already concluded, despite the fact that a regulation procedure has been carried out, the part of which is also to obtain environmental consent or environmental report before that. These are all public procedures in which all interested parties can participate, they can all notify their participation and give their views. And look at the fraction, none of this has been in these procedures and now there are fundamental questions, professional questions that I believe experts have found a timely answer. And I can't think of anything else as if someone was actually obstructing this project in the future, because maybe that doesn't suit anyone for a variety of reasons. Second, as regards the building permit for this connection Velenje south until the connection of Slovenj Gradec. It was issued, as you mentioned, a building permit. The building permit is legally binding. No one has submitted any of the sightings that you state that some plots do not match and so on. We need to respect certain procedures in this country and report to the procedure when the time is right, not to ask the politicians or ministers here and to read out certain shortcomings and expect action from them.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u324	I thank you both for the completely inconclusive answers. I asked one question, you tell me another. Mr Vrtovec, I told you that this was a document by which the former Minister answered my question and, obviously, because it is a very sensitive intervention here, an infrastructure project of a state character, that this document is a forecast of possession made publicly available by Velenje Mine. To the extent that it is not publicly available, please allow me to see it if you have it, and do not redirect the matter and thus delay it so that it can be processed on the basis of data flow, in such a way that your ministry has redirected me to Velenje Mine. I think if you've prepared an answer for you when you were 16. 12. 2019 that you have this document. Please, I can get this document. Second, as far as Minister Viszak is concerned. See if the plots in the building permit are not covered by the State Spatial Plan, it is an illegal intervention into the premises and the home for black construction. That's what I warned you about. Don't tell me it was too late. Whatever we point out here, it is too late or intruding in professional matters, but the profession, including the Interdepartmental State Commission, which was established for this area in 2012, simply does not take into account the conclusions. And the building permit shall indicate the valid parcels on the date of issue of the building permit. If these parcels are not valid, the building permit in this section shall be invalid. I've been looking into this at the university that deals with these things, and also at the institution that does these things, and I've got this answer. If this is not so that these things can be identified, then it is working here contrary to the Aarhus Convention, because it is simply not possible to have accessible control over environmental interference and administrative acts, because they do not contain a starting point for an easy, ordinary citizen to access and verify the correctness of these documents, this is a building permit here, which [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Minister Gardener, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u326	I'll tell you again, I'll see where this document is. I've never been asked before to look at the level it's marked with. Another time. The properties of the facilities are such an area of expertise that is taken into account at the time of the planning and that is also appropriately designed for all design solutions and design, and in fact this is determined by monitoring. These are the areas of expertise, the lands of certain areas. Don't think there's going to be some construction and road design where everything's going to sink and disaster is going to happen. I think we have responsible designers, responsible people who put in space, not amateurs. Do you understand me? I don't believe that only in Velenj will something happen that somehow tries to say. These project documents are now also being prepared on the basis of all these findings, and these findings are being adapted to design solutions. I believe that one of these design solutions in Velenj is, for example, this covered tunnel, which is replaced by an appropriately long then low viaducts and so on. So, I believe in the building profession that it's properly installed and properly then carried out all the right things. Now 10 years after this or 6.7 years after saying something different, let's see, it's a very professional area of property that we can't solve here in Parliament, but we just have to trust the profession that deals with it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u327	Thank you very much. And Minister Visjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u328	Dear Member! The procedure for obtaining a building permit shall also include a public hearing and all interested parties may make their views known in the context of the public hearing. Moreover, non-governmental organisations can be notified as party participants and they must have all the documentation in the process and can actively cooperate not only by making comments and proposals but also by initiating certain legal protection. In the case of Gaberka, a building permit was issued in April or, sorry, in March of this year. This building permit is said to be legally binding today. No one, exactly at the stage of public hearing, as not before, has expressed these concerns, as you are now expressing. It was only after the building permit was issued that one NGO from a completely different part of Slovenia was involved with a very clear interest in this matter, and this clear interest was not the identification of possession or any other irregularity. You've obviously been convinced here that you're still publishing this thing through politics. I ask you to take legal and valid steps in this country to exercise your interests in such cases. These are objections, complaints and participation in public hearings in such projects. In this case none of this has been used, the building permit is legal and you can enforce judicial protection through known routes [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I suggest we move on. Please sign up for another time, I can't wait for you to do what you will, of course I'll give you, just sign up for another time. [[…]] This is the second time you haven't done what needs to be done. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u330	Thank you very much. I ask, in particular, for the second part of the question relating to the Ministry of Environment and Space to be addressed, that the National Assembly hold a debate on this open issue that I have mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 September, in the framework of the votes. Mr Marko Bandelli will ask the Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojs a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u332	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Minister, good evening! You know that it is no secret that the Italians want Slovenia to tighten control at the borders because of the increasing number of migrants coming to Italy via Slovenia. Thus, in August, enhanced military control was announced, indicating a lack of confidence in the Slovenian government. This year, according to the police, with the exception of the migration wave in 2015 and 2016, the most illegal border crossings in the last 19 years. There are increasing numbers of migrants from the areas of Goriška hill, who are travelling through vineyards and who want to continue their journey towards Italy. Members of the SDS party, you have all the time made it clear to the government of Marjana Sarca that it is ignoring the problem of illegal migration. On the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, we had a monthly meeting on this subject. Since you've been in power and you're supposed to practice it in your own hands, this topic is surprisingly no longer so important. In addition, you predicted the closure of borders and many other measures. But right now, you seem to be ignoring this problem. It is true that you wanted to activate Article 37a of the Defence Act and thus grant additional powers to the military, but the National Assembly has assessed that the situation is not such that such a measure should be taken. The military can already cooperate with the police and help them protect the border without further powers. That's why I'm interested in a respected minister: What measures do you have in your plan to curb illegal border crossings and which you are already implementing?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u333	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u334	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, honourable Member, Mr Bandelli! You actually said part of the answer yourself in your question. When I arrived at the Ministry in March, I was at the table awaiting the initiative of the police to activate Article 37a. We have been unsuccessful in this initiative, even though we have tried to present this extensively to all the parliamentary groups, and this activation has not been achieved. You know that in the past, in 2015, the addition of this law, including the votes of our SDS party, has been legalized precisely because we are still aware of the importance of protecting our borders in our client. Especially at this moment, of course, our southern borders. As soon as this matter was not carried out or voted out, we, together with Minister Tonin and the army, if I say more domestically, prepared a comprehensive plan of one of the major exercises of the Slovenian Army in recent years, where the army, as you said, participated in certain areas – of course without the relevant powers. Why do we want the authorizations set out in Article 37a? We want them because they could greatly complement the Slovenian police. Complemented in this sense to make mixed patrols, which means one policeman and one soldier, that is, a soldier with partial powers, a policeman with full powers and thus close the wider border. We are aware that the problem of illegal migrants, and we have been alerting this for a month in March, is actually one of the key issues that this government faces constantly, and what you have said is, of course, true. Their main goal is not to get asylum in Slovenia, so to speak, but to come to Western Europe in one way or another. The main flow, which we find somehow, is the flow against Italy, so I have been in contact with the Italian Minister of the Interior on several occasions, asking me, inter alia, whether they would be again – if you remember, it was already in practice – once again ready for the so-called mixed patrols at the Slovenian-Italian border. I gave her a yes, especially because in some ways it means that we would better protect our western border, i.e. the Italian-Slovenian border. On the other hand, this assurance or willingness to go into such joint action means, in some ways, under the terms of the term, some weakness of the state. That's why we're gonna, at least I'm gonna do everything we can to make sure that doesn't have to. As you know, we have completed or are closing this year's panel fence in as far as it was available. I must inform you that I have managed to put an additional few million in the budget of the Minister of Finance for the following year for the purchase of the fence for the following year, which means that this set-up of the panel fence at the southern border will continue. Including the fact that we bought some other technical equipment this year, i.e. from hunting cameras to motion sensors and the like, which certainly contributed to the fact that the number of migrants captured is much larger than it was last year. As far as the asylum requirements themselves are concerned, it must be said that there are 80 % or more of these people, 75 to 80 % of those who apply for asylum located in an asylum home and after a few days or at a time when their movement is freely available, are disappearing from this asylum. So somehow they become ghosts, which means that their purpose is not to gain asylum, but their purpose is to gain or come to Western Europe. All those migrants captured by the Republic of Italy at this border, Slovenia takes back, as is the consequence of the execution in such cases also in the Republic of Croatia. For the time being, this model or system is in operation and, as long as the Republic of Croatia is essentially fulfilling this part of the international obligations, the regulations will continue to do so. Let me also say that this year we have also received an extremely large number of smugglers, i.e. organised contractors of illegal migrants, currently detained or in prison of almost 100 such smugglers. I plan or believe that by continuing our strategy, we will be able to close this southern border to a large extent. If not, however, it is necessary to understand that we will also agree that they will sooner or later be at our borders, if there is no agreement to help the Slovenian Army, it will be necessary to understand that we will also agree to help foreign security forces, which, of course, also means greater costs for our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u335	Thank you very much. My fellow Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u336	Thank you. Minister, you've only proved one thing, if you'll excuse me if I tell you that you've disappointed me with your answer. You've only given two options that aren't. You can see you're coming from other waters and you've given me a purely political answer, your political response. See, the fourth paragraph of Article 37 already allows the military to assist the police in protecting the state border. No Article 37a had to be adopted. It would only subsequently give me other powers, unnecessary armies, and therefore I am satisfied. But if you remember, you can't remember this because you weren't here at the time, but in the SAB we made a proposal that some permanent or spare compositions of the Slovenian Army could be prepared to help. So there would be a little more people in this area because we don't need anything else to protect. And why people like that? It's because we didn't include the members or what Minister Tonin's idea was for them to include guards. I hope it was one of his unfortunate sentences. Minister, look, that's what I'm gonna tell you. You made two suggestions. Worst suggestion. So we need strangers, so we're not able to protect the borders ourselves, that's what you said, or we put the panel fences in the Hill. Have you ever been to the Breeds? You've seen vineyards run from one side of the border to the other, across the entire border. How are you going to put the panels through the hills, through these vineyards here? You tell me, go upstairs, I'll get you a meeting with the mayor, you'll see what's going on, because you've probably not been there. It is said that now to make proposals for panel fences – this is the worst response given to me right now. And secondly, we will now serve foreigners because we ourselves cannot protect these matters! And you've been full of mouths all the time, how we have to protect borders, how incompetent everyone else is, and we're the only ones who can do it. Excuse me, Minister, you gave me an extremely bad answer. I've been waiting for you to make suggestions and actions on how you'll be able to handle this matter here.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u338	Excuse me, Mr. Bandelli. You must have misinterpreted me. So I'm saying it again. Most of those captured or captured by the Italian security forces at the border between Italy and Slovenia, of course, come across the southern border first. No one was talking about setting up panel fences in Brda or at the Slovenian-Italian border, I was talking about negotiating in the budget for next year additional funds to build panel fences at the southern border. Everything I said about technical measures, about the cooperation of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the Slovenian police, also referred to the closure – or as much as possible – of the closure of the southern border. If we can close this southern border, we will also prevent this flow against Italy in one way or another from being qualified or continuing into the future. I must say that the police have repeatedly said under the current legislation that the difference is whether we have the activation of soldiers only after Article 37 or we have the activation of soldiers under Article 37a. So it is not just what many want to point out that soldiers are already present there or there, that is enough if they are present there under Article 37 — that is certainly not true. It is necessary to read Article 37a carefully, and you will be able to determine that this Article 37a also gives police officers certain powers that are, of course, possible and necessary to exercise in such cases. I can tell you that at the last meeting we had with Minister Tonin, we also received a special scale or, if I may say so, a scale of activation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, from red to green, where each color means a certain number of additional members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, either on the basis of Article 37, if it were activated 37.a., of course, these numbers would be an option of activation on the basis of broader powers. Slovenian police have made these proposals several times. So, Mr. Bandelli, I have to remind you here last year, don't I? Last year, when you were still in the government, that is, when you had an internal minister, the Slovenian police also came with an initiative or a desire to activate Article 37a, with smaller numbers than this year, and then your government – who, therefore, is not important at this time – your government decided not to allow the Slovenian police to activate it. The fact that it will be necessary to activate foreign security forces, but as I said, under the terms, is not a good sign, so I still believe that we will be able to do it alone, that is, only the Slovenian police and the Slovenian Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u340	Yes, Minister, I understand, you know, I specifically asked you about the Brd issue. Because for the last time, if you were here, at your interpretation, I told you about the problem that is in the hills. Because the vans come from the border you told me about earlier, and they cross over all of Slovenia, and they understand that in Brda there are such possible gaps, if you say so, not where you can go across the border. That was my problem, and that was my question. That's why I'm telling you that the solutions you've given us are not right at this point. I believe you have some other solutions in your head – you can because you have to do it here! But given that you were the experts at the time, you've thought that we have no idea how to do this, but now I see that now, the largest number since 2015, 2016, has happened again; it has been said since you are now in government. I'm not gonna say it's your fault. It can't be your fault. The system's broken that you're running. So you'll get some solutions to get us in here so we can stop this flow. That's what this is about! Because of this, honourable President, because I see that the argument is important here, because it is also important for the right just because it was their everyday argument – and it is important for us to see how we can resolve this matter here – I propose and I want this issue to be discussed here, as provided for in Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u341	Thank you very much. The Vice-President will forward your proposal and we will decide on it on Thursday, 24 September, in the framework of the votes. We're moving on. Ambassador Matei Udovč will ask the Minister of Finance mags a question. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u342	Dear Minister, I ask you: When will the Government adopt the new Motor Vehicle Tax Act, which is urgently needed for a new method of measuring consumption and emissions, the so-called WLTP Protocol? Due to the test conditions, vehicle consumption and CO2 emissions are measured according to the new WLTP higher than measurable consumption in the old process, and this will certainly have a direct impact on the tax rate for the assessment of the new vehicle. According to European legislation, the manufacturers of motor vehicles during the transitional period up to 31. 12. 2020 loaded recording of both CO2 release data. With 1. 1. 2021 All new motor vehicles will only have CO2 data after the new WLTP test procedure. In practice, this will mean that they will follow 1. 1. 2021 increased taxation of new cars. I have repeatedly called on your predecessor to amend this law to ensure that these circumstances do not result in an excessive increase in taxation. The Covid-19 pandemic has had disastrous consequences in the field of automobileism. According to recent research, the automotive industry has suffered major losses. In Germany, they have already reduced value added tax for new vehicles and are already considering additional financial assistance. The Slovenian automotive industry is strongly involved in Germany, since almost every German car is an integral part of Slovenia. If we want to help our car industry and increase the purchase of new vehicles, we cannot afford an increase in taxation, so the changes are necessary by the end of this year. The draft law was forwarded to the Ministry of Finance on 13 January this year for public hearing. The proposal mainly provides for a new scale of taxation, which was not the most thoughtful. It would lead to a significant increase in lower middle class car taxation, or the most selling new vehicles in Slovenia. The average age of the car park in Slovenia is more than 10 years and needs to be rejuvenated with new cars. But that's certainly not going to happen. I also want to know: What are you going to do when you tax motor vehicles over 2 thousand 500 cubic centimeters? I myself have repeatedly proposed to the previous Minister to abolish the luxury tax because the country is losing revenue. Such vehicles are registered and payable abroad instead of in Slovenia and the road infrastructure is burdened with us. Thus, the State is deprived of the tax on the purchase of a vehicle and the payment of annual duties on the use of road vehicles. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u344	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member Matthew the Widow. Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. At the Ministry of Finance, we are studying the current taxation of cars. We are also studying the current situation of the automotive industry mainly because, as mentioned, a lot of production in Slovenia is linked to the automotive industry in Germany, France and other countries. From this point of view, we are also considering changes in tax legislation in some countries and not only tax legislation, but, I will say, the entire list of measures that States are committed to correcting the effects of covida. From this point of view, we see this complex. In this regard, we are also aware of the change in environmental directives in the field of automotive and, of course, this deadline is 1 January 2021 and the end of December 2020. From this point of view, we will also prepare an appropriate taxation or burden of cars in the direction that this market does not go down in order to make cars more tax-attractive if I may say so, especially because, as you mentioned, we still have some special tax on so-called cars with a higher cubatura and actually on some cars we pay more tax than in fact its price, the basic price. Of course, this is unacceptable from a market point of view, even from any other point of view, especially because the car today is not some product that should have some special taxation due to its having so many and so many cubic or horses or kilowatts or whatever. Car taxation is also important in line with the European Union guidelines solely because of environmental duty or environmental protection, which in other words means that we must essentially protect the environment here and tax it with a criterion such as releases. This will not result, as you said, from this point of view, I quote, "that there will not be an excessive increase in the tax". I can tell you there won't be too much tax hikes. And the question is, does it even have — the essence is what's too big? So from this point of view, it's open, but I'm saying, here I quote you, and from this point of view, you can be sure that the automotive industry, based on the new solutions, will not be affected in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Then we can proceed. Ambassador Jože Lenart will ask the question, whether he holds it or not, to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Brickler to the King, but it concerns the Law on Infectious Diseases. But you wrote that you were asking Tomaž Gantar, Minister of Health. Correction? Here you go, then ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u346	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister Janez Cigler King, look. For decades, parents, caregivers and mandate holders of children involved in child training, work and protection centres have warned that the situation of children with special needs in the system is worrying. They point to standards for the care of children and adults with special needs that are essential to the needs and as such inadequate. Protectors, both those with severe behavioural disorders and those with motion problems, would urgently need each of their guardians for their daily activities, and this is, of course, very difficult to ensure due to human resources malnutrition. Centres also face a lack of physical therapy. Such a lack also raises questions about the quality of training, which is all the more important for groups of young people with special needs to be able to engage independently in future events and to relieve society as such and not burden it. Training, work and protection centres are also designed for this purpose. Parents, caregivers, and officials warn that standards have deteriorated in the last period, leading also to overburdens on employees who thus perform their work more effectively. The problem is that the number of personnel adapts to the resources allocated, resulting in an even lower number of staff than established by existing standards and standards. Dear Minister, I ask you: Do you plan to include the problem of solving training, work and protection centres in the resolution of long-term care, perhaps by special law? Or have you even forgotten about these groups of citizens and citizens? How will you deal specifically with this issue? I would specifically like to ask you for solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u348	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador Jože Lenart! At the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we are very aware of the importance of human resources standards and standards in the field of training, work and protection institutions to be dealt with at systemic, professional level, systematically regulated and interdisciplinaryly aligned with the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. One regulation, therefore, is at a systemic level, which will certainly also bind itself to the adoption of a long-term supply law, and it will be necessary to include vulnerable groups that need long-term care in this system of long-term care, and thus to systematically set standards and standards there. On the other hand, it was necessary because we detected this, this problem. The parents of these children are also turning to us, we are also being approached by social security institutions through the Community of Social Institutions and they have already given us an extensive picture of all the problems that have been exacerbated here in recent decades, as you have presented. We have already approached activities aimed at reforming standards and norms. The working group established to examine the appropriateness of the existing legal regime and to address the shortcomings in the rules has already addressed part of this content relating to the area of older persons on the one hand and specific groups involved in social security services. On the part of the representative communities, as well as the professions in October 2020, we expect and will also receive expert proposals for baselines for the revision of standards and standards in the field of people with special needs, as this is a special vulnerable group. This working group, which I have mentioned, has proposed the establishment of a wider group comprising representatives of the Ministry, the competent associations or communities and representative unions. We have also addressed to all of these calls for the appointment of representatives to this working group, which will formulate a final proposal for amendments and complement the standards and standards in the field of social protection. So this is a complex problem, which has been very neglected in the last decade and more, we have immediately approached its resolution, and we would certainly like to lead this way so that, when we adopt the long-term care system law, we can all join together in a quality care system for these vulnerable groups in need of social protection services.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u349	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u350	Mr. Secretary, I must say that I am very pleased with your answer, and on the basis of this, I somehow believe that you are aware of the issues of these centres. Of course, the situation requires immediate action, which you have also indicated is already in progress. In view of the fact that this group of parents of the world of the institution has also turned to the purpose of being a Member and I have also instructed them to define and send you this letter directly, I would really like you to answer them as well; because they need to be satisfied with it, they are very interested in it, and they know exactly what the problem is in this area. Thank you for your fine and successful work.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Minister, anything else you'd like to add? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić will raise an oral question to the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u352	Hello, distinguished minister! The internationally recognized Slovenian intermedia artist Emma Kugler, the recipient of many awards, is a victim of carefree play with her artistic work and creativity as well as the country's stepfather's attitude towards a superior culture. For her fifth feature film The Shadow Man received last year the European Cinematography Awards Award for the Best Experimental Film Festival in Amsterdam. Last year he won the first award at the Slovenian Film Festival in Portorož and the Vesna Award for the most innovative film work. She also made five short films and received a number of domestic and foreign awards, including the Golden Bird, the Zupančič Prize, the Prešeren Fund Award and dozens of others. For 2013 alone, she received 12 prestigious international awards, the value of producing this film, which rounded the world from Thailand to Canada, amounted to EUR 1.2 million, and did not receive any State support. She created it all herself. The Slovenian railways, belonging to the Railway Museum, informed Emo Kugler last year that he had to move his creative studios until 31 January 2020 and then renewed the contract after the intervention of the former Minister. Then she again received an invitation to move out and, I think, in March, she sent you a letter and because there was no answer, she started emptying the studios and took away and even destroyed the entire set. In short, when the studios were completely emptied within two months, Kuglareva was again called from Slovenian Railways and informed that she could stay because the minister had called and arranged the matter. And I'm curious, Mr. Minister, only after your intervention did the lease on Emi Kuglar get extended. That's why I want to know: Why did you wait so long that it was too late? Can you explain the inhumane and unethical attitude towards the internationally established film maker and his work? How is it possible for the Ministry of Culture to allow such cruel play with human destiny and machete relations with cultural creators? Atelije is located in a public space in the museum area, which belongs to a state-owned company, and this cannot be an incassant, an outcast, a dealer of artistic projects and excellent cultural initiatives. What will you do, Mr. Minister of Culture, to protect the victim and how will you prevent the destruction and abuse of artistic work of a unique art set, costumes and other film props used in Slovenia's public good and recognition? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u353	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u354	Thank you very much. Mrs Emma Kugler had a contract until the end of August 2018, after which she enjoyed free space for her work, and at the beginning of the year she was told, as I know, that she must leave this or that she should pay, of course, a certain rent. About what you said she had to leave, or that she ruined her job, I have to say that I don't know anything. And I don't even remember getting a letter from her at the beginning of March, or I don't know when you said it. It would certainly not have to destroy its work because it was in force until the end of August. I have fully learned from the other side about her problem and I have politely asked the Director of Railways if the ladies are going to the front and because, as I would say, the person who also respects art or works of art, as I know, is now more or less regulated. The Director spoke to her, waiting for the contract to be received now, but there is probably no fear that she would not remain in this studio as a free tenant of this space. The other things that you're reading, I don't really know, and I don't know who I've been in contact with, talked about it, and I haven't complained about anything. However, it is important to know that the Ministry of Culture is not responsible for solving this kind of problem, and given the attacks I hear from you and the misunderstanding actually, I don't think I'm ever going to do anything like that again, to set up a personal word for someone to solve his problems, because it's not in my jurisdiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u355	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u356	Secretary-General1 But how do you imagine that at the end of August she would return space, because there were tons and tons of materials that she had collected in ten years and where she made all her many films. She had to empty the space, and luckily, the Power came to her aid, which she was offered free of charge by dumpsters who drove away and worked all summer to clean it up, but otherwise she couldn't. The artist received support, financially, only for her latest film, only in 17% of the film's value, which was not enough to cover material costs. In short, in the last 10 years it has indeed been available an abandoned hall in the protected area of the old factory in the railway museum area in Ljubljana. But the space was without windows, without heat, electricity, water, but it was still a free use of this space, because otherwise it would have been empty and unusable, brought huge multiplier effects. In addition to the screenplay for the new film, she also produced many stage elements in the studio, which she has been recycling, creating, restoring, remodeling all the time, in order to serve for the next film, and this has now gone to nothing. In short, if we want to create from nothing, we also need to make a screenplay and everything. Unfortunately, such creators, artists and artists are then deprived of the only place where they can create and literally prevent their creation. That's why I'm asking you: Why didn't you stop the works of the art project in time and protect the opus internationally recognized and rewarded artists and, in fact, prevented the birth of another Slovenian film? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u357	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u358	For some films, the lady she reported did not receive any subsidies and also rejected some films. For last year's film, for which you said it contributed all alone or to 17% of the value – I think it is a film by a man with a shadow worth millions of euros – she received 160 000 from the Slovenian Film Centre and 183 thousand from the film Vibe, totaling 343,000 398 euros, which is, of course, more than a third of the funds for this film – if this is the case. The fact that I didn't prevent or do not know what is going on with this theatre thing that you're talking about in a theatrical way – some people are responsible for their work after all. Like I said, at the beginning of March, I don't remember these things, and I didn't know these things were what they were. Then I was of some people, as I have already said, actually somehow asked in good faith and with good intentions, from people who are good acquaintances of this lady, and no one has read any of the things you're talking about. But I think that people had to be responsible and, of course, responsible for their actions, their jobs, whether they care properly or not. Like I said, I'm giving up any future thing that won't be in my jurisdiction to do it, because I think it's what you're doing to the extreme. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u359	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u360	I did not want to have a procedural discussion in this regard, but when the Minister for Culture behaves in such an uncultured manner that it seems inappropriate for him to ask him a question about a cultural creator and leave immediately, because it seems unworthy for him to be asked questions at all, I think it is totally uncultured and that his conduct in answering the questions of the Member States could be discussed at the next meeting. That's why I have a procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u361	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 September, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be the question posed by Lidija Dijak Mirnik, the Minister without a portfolio responsible for strategic projects and cohesion of Zvonku Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u362	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for the floor. Good-bye, distinguished minister! Here's my question. Following the successful conclusion of the negotiations and the provision of EUR 10.5 billion of funding this July, it is clear, of course, that the Government will have to pay particular attention to the drawdown of funds, either tomorrow or today. These 10.5 billion, as you know, are divided into the Recovery and Resistance Fund, the so-called RRF Fund, 5.7 billion, of which 1.6 billion are non-refundable and 3.6 loans, which we will see, draw, and, of course, 500 million from the national cohesion envelope for infrastructure projects. The remaining VFO Fund 21-27 is expected to weigh 4.5 billion. We will also see what will happen, given that the European Parliament has not yet voted on this, but in principle it is expected that the plus, minus things will still be confirmed as proposed. Most of these funds will have to be spent within three years, including those from the RRF. Since the government of Janez Janša, and especially the President of the Government himself, has repeatedly talked about this, also about the neglect of individual regions towards centralised Ljubljana, which I absolutely agree with, it is now the right time for you not only to stay in your mandate but also to move on to action. I therefore call on you to distribute these funds evenly throughout Slovenia, in line with your announced strategy for equitable development. Dear Minister, I ask you: Can the Styrians expect an equal share of at least one billion from this 10 billion European traineeship? Proportional share, depending on the population and size of the region, is also the Primorci and the Korosci and the Dolenjci and the Gorenjci and all others. The money is for the whole of Slovenia, all Slovenes and Slovenes, not only to say, privileged around the centre. After all, 80% of Slovenians live outside of Ljubljana, so in this first part I kindly ask you to consider that the Styrians receive at least one billion euros from all these envelopes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u363	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u364	Good-bye, everybody! Especially the Members who asked me this question. The Stajers, if I simplify, you will get substantially more than a billion euros in funding for individual projects in the coming period. Last but not least, billions and 500 million from the European Social Fund and the European Regional Development Fund alone are foreseen in the Eastern Cohesion Region for the next seven-year financial framework. Of course, all the funds from the Recovery Fund and part of the REACT funds and part of the funds that are not so small from the Fair Transition Fund should also be added to these funds. But I would start with one conclusion that I think comes out of your question in some way. When we talk about these funds, we have billions of them in front of us. I think it's the wrong view. When we talk about spending and allocation of funds for individual projects, individual operations, we need to come from the bottom up and we need to look at this euro money up and realize that we are turning this money in any way, even when it comes to grants, it comes from people. This money comes from such or other taxes, which is why these funds need to be used economically and these funds must be returned to the people to the greatest extent, and of course no part of Slovenia should be left behind. On 21 July this year, a historical framework was reached, both with regard to the next financial perspective and with regard to the other mechanisms in view of the situation in which we all came together, Slovenia, Europe, the whole world. This presents an opportunity for us, and in particular a great responsibility for the future period until 2030, when Slovenia will have more than €12 billion in resources, of which €3.6 billion in repayable, favourable loans, as you have found that this framework will be used wisely and economically in accordance with the mechanisms available during this period. These 12 billion are also worth €1.8 billion, which are not yet drawn from the current financial perspective, where there is no fear that these funds will not be exhausted. The timetable, which was ready for the next decade, speaks of Slovenia drawing between 700 million and one hundred million euros in European funds in the coming years. During this period three financial frameworks are somehow facing each other. One part, I mentioned, is the existing financial perspective, where we have already committed, another billion EUR 800 million. We add to this envelope the funds negotiated on 21 July from the so-called REACT amounting to EUR 330 million. In this regard, an amendment to the operational programme to be considered by the Monitoring Committee on 29 September this year will be prepared on this basis for normal pumping as from 1 January next year, when an appropriate regulation will also be adopted at the level of the European Union. Then this second framework, the RRF, is said to be the Fund for Recovery and Strengthening Resistance, where the timetable for dealing with this document is at Government 8. This year's 10th. It is a billion €600 million in grants and €3 billion €600 million in repayments. Then we also have a multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027, where we are following a timeline that was already set up before the time, namely that these operational programmes should be prepared by the end of this year, so that Slovenia will be ready for normal pumping from 2021 and 2022 on. We are talking about €2 billion 900 million in three European Cohesion Policy funds and €600 million in agricultural policy. These funds need to be added to around 400 million of the funds of the so-called Fair Transition Fund, where, due to the problems faced by the Western region, which has passed some indicators of development, but a large part of this region, areas do not reach those indicators, but are in a similar developmental backlog as areas in the Eastern region. We are, therefore, strengthening the possibility of using these funds also in the western part, which has not been possible so far, and the difference through the reinforcement of the national envelope. While this negotiating framework has been significantly improved, €170 million, which was already at the table on 17 July 2018, was the last day of the negotiations, or the last night, €350 million in cohesion policy and €82 million in the area of the common agricultural policy. In short, we are aware of our responsibility. We'll act responsibly. We will act in such a way that the funds will be used economically, for good projects, and by returning to the people.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u365	Thank you very much. Madam Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u366	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Secretary, I'm pleased to hear what you've said. You said Styria would get more than 1 billion, and I'm looking forward to it. In this context, I am also interested in the following: Is this change in the current operational programme that we are talking about, the 1.8 billion leftovers that still need to be drawn from this perspective – how will you change this? We both know that there's a lot of stuff on paper, but in reality, when you look at the sharing of money, projects and everything, east-west, we see where we are. That's why I'm interested in it first. By the second. I also absolutely agree with these five developmental pillars that you have set out on the SVRK with regard to greater resilience, so to speak. This is about sustainable green transition, digital transformation of Slovenia, a supportive environment for businesses, including investment, plus this knowledge-based area of society, knowledge, competences, of course, emphasis on digital competences, and tourism and culture. I must say that in Maribor and in Styria we have prepared projects, such that we can approach all this draw, not to say, tomorrow, but certainly to the day after tomorrow. For example, for Maribor: UKC Maribor, where we also have to arrange things in the pulmonary department or transfer it from Pohorje to the city, the University of Maribor is preparing projects, it has lots of them, and the City Municipality has prepared projects. I'm asking you very specifically: Which of these three projects do you intend to include in the resolution of all of what we are talking about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u367	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u368	Thank you. On 10 August, after this negotiating framework was concluded at the European Council and after the Government appointed two operational preparation and monitoring teams on 24 July, a consultation was convened on 10 August by the President of the Government with the mayors of all municipalities, mayors and mayors, and the directors of the regional development agencies, which were on 31 August in Brdo and in preparation for this consultation, was also somehow sent an invitation to a selection of all the operations and projects that could be implemented from these three different or four different mechanisms. We have received around €11 billion of proposals from municipalities across the country and about so many proposals from individual ministries. Some projects have also been duplicating. When we examine all these things in detail in the last month, unfortunately we have found that very few projects are ready to go. They are prepared to such an extent that some may be implemented in the future three-year period, with an appropriate amendment to the legislation which will be necessary. Neighbouring countries have also approached this, which is the conclusion that these activities will not be carried out under existing formal mechanisms, which is why, for example, our neighbouring country has already joined some normative changes. We will also have to do something similar so that we can – for example, if we are talking about specific matters, both in Maribor and in Ljubljana for the next three or five years. I must say that these funds are not available until the end of 2023. One part yes, and most of it by the end of 2026. The problem is that these larger projects are not ready to be implemented by tomorrow. You mentioned the pulmonary ward. This investment will be within this next three-year framework, according to the REACT initiative, and many other investments in strengthening health systems. However, we have set organisational activities in a different way than they have been so far, with the aim of implementing those projects that are not prepared and would not have been carried out in the next three- and six-year period during this period. Together with all ministries, with a state-owned investment company, we have drawn up a plan of activities to ensure that projects, particularly larger projects, will be implemented during this period. So unfortunately, I also thought that there were quite a few projects that were ready to go. It's not like that. It will take a lot of effort, but I believe that by the way and by the approach we have taken, we will succeed and we will make things right in the area of individual food systems, especially the health and care of the elderly, during this period.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u369	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u370	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I like what you've been saying. I believe you'll do that, too. However, since this subject is so important, I think it is important that we talk about it at some of the following meetings. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, of course, I propose that we say something else on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u371	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 September, in the framework of the votes. The last one on the line is mag. Andrej Reich, who will question the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u372	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! In reply, my fellow Member, Ms Maša Kociper, you have stressed the importance of accessibility to public passenger transport, as well as the efforts you are making in its promotion and enlargement among people. In this light, I would like to point out that they are with 1. Seven. 2020, on the proposal of your predecessor, Mrs Alenka Bratušek, the amendment of the Road Transport Act, which allowed more than 360 000 users, including pensioners over 65 years of age, disabled persons and war veterans, to travel free of charge in cross-country passenger transport. This benefit has so far benefited more than 140 000 users, which means, above all, that the measure has been good, effective and successful. Empty buses and trains, especially during the summer months, were given users, passengers. We receive a number of letters from the Sab client, thanks to many pensioners who, like once with friends, took a trip together to the sea, to hills, spas, to a one-day trip, to visit children and grandchildren. As has already been said, the measure came to life in July this month and the pensioners and the other beneficiaries make use of it by contributing to a smaller contribution of 2,3 euros at the point of sale of passenger operators or to the written application of a post card allowing them to exercise these rights. Sadly, though, we have been approached by pensioners who have been waiting for the card for two months. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: In this respect, what has been stuck in the context of the fact that beneficiaries do not receive this card in due course and thus cannot exercise the legally provided rights? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u373	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u374	Thank you very much. As far as I'm concerned, as we're taking up the post on the proposal - be careful, this is the last time - the members of the Party's group, Alenka Bratušek, have accepted this in Parliament, not on a proposal from the Ministry. Is that right? So we have adopted this law with the support of all the parliamentary groups, which, once again, was proposed by the said parliamentary group, not my predecessor. From then on, despite the current crisis, when it was not easy to stop public passenger traffic at the same time, we have made every effort to ensure 1. 7. for Slovenian pensioners and for all over 65 years of age, disabled persons, holders of a European card of benefit for disabled persons and veterans of war, that they have the possibility of this order today indeed more or almost 141 thousand beneficiaries use this card and free tickets. I am very happy about this, too, regardless of the costs they are, and in fact, someone accesses this card alone, I think the price was about 3 euros there, and that for three euros you get an entire free ride, and in fact the total amount is more than 2,000 euros if you use it all. All transport operators and all our technology providers have made a real effort to ensure that the application was received on 26 June. Above all, we must also thank our colleagues at the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, including the Ministry of Public Administration, that the links have been prepared and we can take over data on pensions, possible insurance from the labour relationship as well. I'm not going to say anything was wrong, because there was nothing wrong, and you said for two months, that might have been an extraordinary case. I personally worked hard when someone wrote to me on Facebook when he wrote "two months waiting" or "a month waiting" or "a month waiting" was either an incomplete role or was not entitled to it – there was always a reason. Let me say that the Ministry, in order to help carriers – primarily to reduce the risk of covid-19 infections – and also to create an additional sales post for the most vulnerable groups. The students who helped us worked two shifts from 8 to 20. We have saved over 30 thousand 852 deposits at this sales post at the Ministry. It is true, however, that we had some problems with our electronic cards, and I talked to my colleagues at the Ministry at the time, saying, on which tickets are recorded. But watch out — why? Due to the basis of the contract for the supply of 500 thousand cards we have received only a small quantity of so-called test cards, one of the reasons for such a situation is that covid-19 deadlines for the supply of electronic chips on global markets have been extended. But this public order was not done by this minister, all of which were done before. The second reason is that before the card is sold, the new operator must also meet all the requirements to fully meet: security, them, the technology system, the requirements of the IJPP system – we keep sensitive data of individuals on cards, especially in the IJPP system, and this system must be technologically completed. I would like to point out that if it came in two months, as you mentioned, it was either something to do with the role itself or with a certain complication, people wrote to me personally and we solved these individual roles. But at first, it was really crowded. After the marriage was introduced — and thanks again for the introduction of this law, which is truly well-intentioned — at the Ministry we adopted all the regulations and all the necessary things immediately. However, it was not easy in the covid-19 situation when everything, not only in Slovenia, was completely closed around the world, and the delivery of cards from the Far East was problematic, but we succeeded. I am pleased and thank the team that prepared this, including the head of the Directorate, that today pensioners also have this opportunity, thanks to these teams, and are driving free of charge from point A to point B, and I know that there is great satisfaction among them that this has happened. My aim is not only to give pensioners a free ride, but we can also go to a wider population to make the use of public passenger transport more user-friendly, efficient and accessible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u375	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u376	Thank you very much. I don't know if I got the Minister right. He said that, in fact, every pensioner with this measure was entitled to a free 2,000-euro ride, if I understood correctly, some 2,000 euros were being talked about. In this light, I would like to say that the country is already subsidising the implementation of inter-national passenger transport and all that we have done with this proposal, which has essentially become law, is that on trains that would otherwise be empty, we have taken pensioners, veterans of war, over 65 years of age and disabled. I am very pleased that the measure has proved to be successful and effective and that more than 140 000 beneficiaries have now obtained these cards. I am also pleased to explain that you are actually talking about these delays, which are actually objective in nature and in most cases due to incomplete applications. In fact, you also highlighted the problem created by the covid-19 epidemic, in fact the broken supply chain, thereby extending the delivery deadlines for the cards. We can also understand this in part as a kind of superior force. In any case, I would also like to expect from you to be seen in the future and somehow show a broader vision of how to transfer these good practices to urban passenger transport. In the SAB, as you know, we put in a legislative procedure a proposal which would allow for free driving in the municipalities where this is a prescribed public service.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u377	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u378	Thank you very much. Once again, as in the beginning, your colleague Maša Kociper in connection with the city municipalities. It will be necessary to agree here to have certain participations; it is easy for municipalities to join this project and this would mean a significant contribution for an individual citizen in a certain municipality to use line transport within the municipality. That's it. I will work here to see this agreement come to fruition. The amounts aren't that small, but I promise I'll do my best here. One thing, you mention trains, you know, but right now, I hope it's only in the summer months. We are witnessing that we no longer have enough line buses available. Now that the school began, for example from Vrhnika, Logatca to Ljubljana, pensioners also go up. They didn't usually go up there. Today, they buy tickets, they go up, but those who go to high school can stay below. And we don't have enough access to the event in some cases to get in trouble, which was also on TV when the so-called tickets were bought in advance and there were problems. [[…]] Because some people come up, others do, but they have to go to work, they don't. But O.K., we're gonna take care of everything, and it's gonna solve the situation. There are also many instances when we hear them say they went to sea; after 30, 40 pensioners at the same time and in the past they booked the entire tourist bus. And the tourist buses, which really have a system failure, warn us: What have you done? We say we let them go to sea. Yeah, well, we would've gone, but with us. We'd be ordered for 400 euros and we'd go to Portorož and bring them back. But that's what we face every day, and we'll figure it out. Absolutely! We will also provide enough buses, because these options are, capacity is and can be. In view of the covid situation, we adjust things because we were in a truly unusual situation. I'm ambitious about the use of public passenger transport. I spoke with Mr Arsenovic, also with Mr Jankovic, so that this would happen in cities. Also for students and students. It is, however, that the country, for example, still subsidises student transport to a very large extent, more than €40 million, but still pays parents about €10 million on their own. Here we can take a step further. Here I am ambitious that there will be no mistake, but in particular for the city council, I would like the mayors to join us, given that the principals are also quite enlarged over the last half-year and that they will probably continue to do so. So this practice needs to continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u379	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u380	Thank you very much. Given that the subject is very important and a lot of issues are being raised, of course, I am proposing a procedural proposal to discuss this proposal with you, to discuss my proposal at one of the future meetings of the National Assembly. But I would just like to respond to why I want to discuss it. In our proposal, it was envisaged that the State would pay only, that is, in the case of the introduction of free urban transport, only the part paid so far by the user. So, according to our proposal, the municipality is already involved in covering the costs and this is not a matter for the country. As far as bus congestion is concerned, my colleagues also said that due to the Covid-19 epidemic, the number of seats on buses is limited. So the crowd is not due to the extra rides of pensioners, but to the covid-19 epidemic, and therefore additional resources are needed to solve this matter. But it's also an organization. In the event of an occurrence on a busy bus, all serious bus carriers have spare, additional means of transport and, of course, this is an organisation matter. I would also like to touch in essence the experience of your predecessor, Mrs Alenka Bratušek, when officials at the Ministry told her that she was not going, there was no study, there was no introduction of free passenger transport for pensioners, and Mrs Bratušek showed that she was going. It has given officials clear instructions on how to resolve the issue, and today we have free public transport for pensioners, which has proved to be very successful and effective. Yes, because of all of this, I ask all my fellow Members to make my proposal that we discuss this issue a little more broadly and to support my proposal to discuss this in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-09-21-SDZ8-Redna-20.ana.u381	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 24 September 2020, in the framework of the votes. I thank the ministers and ministers for the answers given. I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue on Thursday, 24 September 2020, when the National Assembly decides on the proposed decisions in the context of the votes. I am also adjourning the 20th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much. Good night.
