ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u3724	The next Advocacy Club is that bridge of independent lists on behalf of which will be spoken by the respected representative Plasimir Troscott, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u3725	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who look at us through the screen. One of the official economic policies of the Bridge's MPs is definitely tax cuts, especially VAT because we believe that the state burden is too high and that this policy in this state, at the moment, is largely suffocating the Croatian economy. The particular theme about what we've mentioned now is actually the hair salon initiative and especially the hairdressing business to reduce the VAT rate from 25% to 13%. We also talked about this topic during the campaign in the official debate with Mr. Maric, where we have just cited this industry which has been particularly affected by the high VAT rate which in Croatia's case is among the largest in Europe because Sweden is the country with the highest VAT rate, behind Sweden we are. The proposal is actually that this rate goes from 25 to 13% and is more of the economic effects that we can achieve with this measure. As far as the hairdressing business itself is concerned, so all those business entities that cross the revenue of 300,000 kn per year enter the 25% VAT system and there are certain things that we would like to bring here. First of all, EU Member States have actually made a decision if it can be facilitated by medium and smaller entrepreneurs, at local level, there may be a reduction in such taxes and this has been done by the Czech Republic, which has reduced the value added tax precisely for hairdressing and barbery services from 21% to 10%. It is quite unmotivating for hair salons that have an annual turnover of over 300,000 kn for reasons that they automatically increase the price of services and thus become uncompetitive and in that case we have both unhealthy and not fair competition especially for smaller and medium hairdressing salons compared to those less. Hairdressing is also as stated in the official debate with representatives of finance from other parties, in fact a profession with a very high black market, about 50% of the market is in fuche or unfair competition, and we believe that reducing the tax rate from 25% to 13% would certainly reduce the share in the unfair market. Furthermore, because of the indemnity of working with a rate of 25%, many owners actually limit the further development of their business and, in some ways, do not deliberately enter the VAT system, which is what the state is suffering from. Now, given that the VAT reduction initiative from 25% to 13 by the hair salons has made good analyses that we would like to make here, we believe that this proposal is very good and we will support it on behalf of the Mosta Club. First of all, if taxes were cut from 25% to 13%, the number of hair salons would increase by 1.5% and 154% respectively. Furthermore, according to the analysis, the number of employees would increase by 1250, which would keep our people here in Croatia. We would have business sustainability for reasons why the existing hair salons would survive and not be extinguished, there would be no cancellation of workers, there would be a reduction in unfair competition for the reason that the share of the black market would be reduced, given that around 50% of these services are done on black and that there is no tax and what is most important, a calculation was made for the state for the reason that 30 million kunas of personal income from the newly employed would come from VAT, further 30 million kuna from the hair salons and we have 68 million kuna by contributions, which, when summed up at 5 years of age, would get a share of therefore of 108 million kuna from that measure and since this goes into the measure proposed by the Bridge and we agree that this rate would be reduced as it would be necessary for the hosts in Rijeka and Kostrena. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u3726	Thank you very much. Although at the beginning when I was called by the respected representative Spajic and was not here, I said he was losing his right to speak, I made a decision that he could speak anyway, since he was not in this room, so it took him a little longer to come from the premises where he was, so here, on behalf of the Homeland Movement, the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, will now speak the esteemed representative Daniel Spajic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u3741	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. The coronary virus and the health crisis it has caused has negative consequences on numerous economic branches. The service sector has been affected, and I mean not only tourism but also activities that form an integral part of tourism as an economic branch. Everything is placed in the same basket and masked by the number of nights and the count of tourists. No one is talking about the total number of jobs in tourist activities that are also affected. I will refer to the problem of occasional passenger transport, which concerns every organised transport of passengers in the country and abroad and is carried out by buses, mini buses and vans. With the growth of Croatian tourism in recent years, there has been a significant investment in this sector, the crisis is being coronated by occasional carriers doing business independently and without state subsidies, and a good share of transport companies have invested significant funds in the reconstruction of the rolling stock in recent years. New vehicles that have acquired meet the most ecological standards required by more and more EU members. Today, the most successful Croatian transport companies are the most invested in the quality of the fleet and passenger safety now amid the unprecedented economic crisis. In fact, all investments went from the company's capital and with the help of leasing houses and banks. Because of the impasses in business and for which they are not responsible, they have found themselves in an extremely unfavourable situation. Given the current epidemiological situation and further recommendations to avoid bus use as well as the fear of gathering in a small space, this activity comes at a difficult time for which no one knows how long it will last. The current drop in traffic for the last six months. business for most companies in the occasional transport of passengers goes up to 95% to 98%. From this it is apparent that they are not able to pay their commitments, the Leasing Houses have enabled moratories to pay off their liabilities but during the moratories, interest is still accounted for. The model offered creates additional problems for carriers because buying time through a moratorium with existing market conditions at the end of the moratorium for most carriers means bankruptcy and liquidation. At this point, this activity employs 20,000 employees, funds for liquidity which many have hoped were granted at an inadequate rate and represent a new form of credit i.e. Indemnifications. The grant from EU funds with liquidity resources would be a means of saving this activity. It is therefore necessary to include this activity in the national recovery plan that is in the works and thus help companies and many employees to survive this crisis. Why help the occasional transport of passengers? To show that we are willing to learn from our own mistakes and how we are willing to make new steps in the country. Since Croatian independence here, we have seen the collapse of many companies, they were not big enough, important or simply loud enough. Large mastodons without a future were saved and the kickings were viewed as the failure of small and medium-sized enterprises. The main holders of the great German economy are micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, the same situation is in Italy. Throughout the EU, many countries have long helped their occasional passenger transport sector to survive up to some better times. They didn't do calculations, the only motive was to save their own economy. And what about the failure of the occasional transport of passengers of about 2,000 companies and 20,000 employees? There follows debt slavery for company owners and the relocation of many young families across the EU. Is that our goal? On several occasions, they addressed competent institutions but without concrete results. Unfortunately, so far, the state has not shown understanding of the problems in which this activity is involved. I therefore appeal from this speaker in the Croatian Parliament to all relevant ones to assist activities that are closely related to tourism as an economic branch and finally start to think about the domestic and healthy economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u3742	Thank you very much. This concludes the presentation of the position of the Clubs of Representatives and let me also conclude the second extraordinary session of the Croatian Assembly and the next will be a regular session as the Constitution and set out, will be held on Wednesday 16th of this month, and you will receive all the notifications on time. Thank you very much and have a nice weekend. The session is completed at 12.24 hours. The next Club of Representatives is one of the Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the respected representative Marijan Pavliček will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u3755	Dear Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am glad that yesterday the Ministry of Culture referred to the Croatian Sovereigns press conference on the construction of a hotel in the city of Vukovar on the particle of the former Danube Hotel where I personally referred to the Ministry of Culture which has been holding back this project for years or almost a year and a half because, in their subjective opinion, it does not fit into the existing urban plan or spatial documentation of the city of Vukovar, despite the fact that it is an investment of EUR 25 million, despite the fact that investors of Croats who have been living in the territory of Switzerland for several decades, despite the fact that people have been dealing with the hotel business very successfully for years, which I have personally seen at the opening of their Hilton hotel near Zurich, despite all this, it is the Ministry of Culture that the building and height does not fit in the city of Vukovar. And yesterday after our press conference, the Ministry of Culture gave a statement where, they dropped all the charges because they believe the investor does not respect the existing urban plan. So urban plans also serve to change, that they can adapt, especially if JLS, which is the city of Vukovar, estimates that something of the interest of the wider community is in the area, and this investment of EUR 25 million is definitely an investment that would bring 70 new jobs in the city of Vukovar, an investment that would put Vukovar in tourist terms on Croatia's tourist map, especially in continental tourism. Here, today, the tourism ministry had a press conference, talked about the success of the tourist season, and said that it would place the emphasis again primarily on continental tourism. Unfortunately, such examples from the other side of the Ministry of Culture show only in which direction and how the Croatian administration works and what message we send to foreign investors about investment, not only in the town of Vukovar but also in the Republic of Croatia. But what is there is, we will not surrender from the city of Vukovar, and until the last atom of strength we will try to help realize this, for the city of Vukovar, strategic investment, the largest since the Homeland War. I would also refer this way to the president of Mr Jandrokovic's assembly who told colleagues who voted electronically today because of self-insulation, that they had entered history, here I am glad that they were allowed to vote in this way because I am afraid that this will be in the near future on several occasions, but this is the best example that we can introduce an electronic vote already in the next parliamentary elections only if there is good will. Unfortunately, they have not had a good will to date, but this example today shows that Croatian society needs this kind of vote and all Croatian citizens regardless of those living in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, BiH or other European and world states. Then we will no longer have a 46% turnout, then one party with 16% of all voters will not be able to rule the state then democracy in the right sense of the word will liven up and not as it has so far, unfortunately only on paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u3756	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Sanja Radolovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u3772	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. My current theme of the club's position is related to what we received yesterday, the government sent the proposal Law on the establishment of a defence and security university to Dr. Francis Tudjman and I would like to stress immediately that the SDP has nothing to do with the development of the defence and security itself, however, we are in favour of further development of defence and security of the Republic of Croatia, but it is disputed that this bill is addressed at all. As you know, there's something that's a constitutional category called university autonomy, and at universities there's a Ministry of Science and Education. It is interesting, however, that the establishment of this university would no longer be respected if the constitutional category of university autonomy had already been supervised by the same university only the Ministry of Defence. What you have also neglected is a series of objections sent during the public consultation itself and most of these public, these objections to public consultation came from the ranks of members of the academic community. So, I repeat, the totally neglected objections that came during the public consultation have been completely ignored. Why am I saying that? I am saying this for a reason we will have more opportunities in the parliamentary debates to talk about this establishment of a university, but we have paradoxical situations that are happening on the other side of the country. We are specifically talking about the establishment of a medical study in Pula at Pula University that has been waiting for its license for a year and a half. At the same time it was recently approved or issued by the Ministry of Science and Education to conduct a study of medicine at the Croatian Catholic University, so we will also have another Faculty of Medicine in Zagreb, which will be held at the Croatian Catholic University. I note, therefore, that they have met all the criteria under the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and the Law on Quality Insurance in Higher Education have nothing to do with this university, however, there is therefore no policy development here. At the same time, it is impossible to issue a licence to a medical study in Pula. What is a hindrance to saying is that this has become the political games of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. So, the National Science Council, whose members are elected precisely by this assembly on the proposal of the Assembly Committee, became the body, I would say, consisting of politicians, not more than an expert from the academic community, significantly exceeded their powers and since a study of medicine in Pula has fulfilled all the legal assumptions that the Agency for Science and Higher Education has therefore checked, the task force of the Ministry and therefore received 3 international positive reviews. Nevertheless, the National Council for Science, noting for purely political reasons, continues to refuse to allow the conduct of a medical study in Pula. As they state the reason is that no agreement was delivered with KBC, so the University of Pula also delivered an agreement with the KBC of Rijeka and at the same session the Catholic University delivered an agreement with the Vinograd hospital. Smart enough. A medical certificate was issued at the Catholic University, no medical certificate was issued at the University of Pula. What to say but that clearly Pula and Istria will have the most modern hospital, a newly built hospital with the most modern operating halls, with the most modern equipment, and is not allowed for Istria and the whole region to be working on the development of personnel and therefore that we have a chamber that will give the same level of health care as someone has in Rijeka, Zagreb, Split and Osijek where KBCs are therefore. What is important to point out, I also referred the question to Minister Fuchs himself since it was interesting until he was still a minister, he was one of the peers of the Pula Study of Medicine, the programme and gave a positive review, so I am very interested in what Minister Fuchs will say about it and whether he will finally stop at the end of this policy being conducted by the National Science Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u3773	Thank you very much. Now next is the Club of Representatives will be the party with the name and last name, Smart and GLAS on behalf of which will speak respected representative Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u3782	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues would like to highlight here the two problems we faced at the beginning of this school year. The first problem is the problem of the assistants in the class. So over the back of school children and those most vulnerable groups of fractures are the disorganization and neglect of the system in another segment. Although teaching has started some of the assistants in the course, there is still no signed work contract, and some of the schools have received a recommendation that contracts be signed on a deadline of just 60 days instead of the end of the school year. In addition, some contracts state the point according to which the contract may be terminated in the event of unforeseen circumstances such as the epidemiological situation caused by the coronary virus. In that case, what will happen to the education of children with difficulty? During the on line teaching an assistant can follow with the student the program from the child's home which was also the case during the lockdown, but such defined contract provisions have the possibility to disable it. What about working parents if children are left without help from assistants, is this how children with disabilities are deprived of the right to education? At present, we have about 4,500 assistants in class who have been an important part of the educational process for the past 10 years, and yet they are not provided with decent working conditions. For example. Last year in Split-Dalmatia County, their salaries were late for a month. Their agony continues in this year as well, and children whose engagement is necessary have difficulty in regular education. Another problem that escalated early in the year in these new conditions has been known to be a problem for 30 years and is escalating with every early school year, a problem that children in schools who do not attend religious education and their parents face. I am sure that everyone here knows the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, I am sorry to remind myself of it, in which we are defined as a secular state, it is particularly worrying that we must remind in this society that in addition to adults live and children who also have their rights defined among others by the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. Recently, parents launched a petition sent to the minister of education requiring the adjustment of school schedules and adequate care for their children. It is a shame that in the 21st century citizens through that line petition are forced to seek their rights and create public pressure to allow children what they belong to. It is unfortunate that in a European country that wants to admire the education of a generation of children, they sit in cold halls or in front of schools. The message that is sent to both children and parents is totally unacceptable, I say that they are not equally valuable, that they are not all the same before the law and that they will pay for what is acceptablely expensive. In recent days, we have witnessed that the agreement that is shared by parents in some schools is a requirement for them to agree to remain in the class during the course of religious classes, which we find totally unacceptable and justifying that this is due to epidemiological measures. I would like to emphasise this, so this is the problem of direct result of long-term systematic neglect by the Constitution of guaranteed rights of citizens, religious science is not a place in schools, and when there is no will or way to respect it and then we ask that children who do not go to religious science finally cease to be discriminated against. I will repeat once again, this treatment does not only violate the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia but also the provisions of the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of the Child as well as the General Declaration of Human Rights. Forced children to participate in the teaching of religious injury is the right of a child to freedom of mind, conscience, and faith. The Convention defines that child education should be directed towards the promotion and respect of children's parents, its cultural identity, language and values, the national values of the country where the child lives and the countries from which it originates and the respect of the civilizations that differ from him. If schools are not able to organise the schedule themselves, if religious scientists cannot put a start or end of the schedule, then competent institutions should help them instead of refusing to take responsibility and act as if it were not their problem. The incompetence of these institutions is another indication that religion and school should be separated, the teaching of religious science must not be imposed on any child if it is not his choice or the choice of his parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u3783	Thank you very much. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.43 HOURS]] I don't see a fellow Spijic here, so he loses his right to speak. The next will be the Green-left bloc MPs' club on behalf of which the respected representative Damir Bakic will speak. Here you go, colleague Bakic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u3809	And Mr. Vice President, thank you, and distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We can still remember the unfavorable event that took place this spring on the very first day of teaching after a two - month pandemic blockade at a primary school. Four children were left without a school meal because their parents had failed to settle or could not comply with the financial obligation to participate in the cost of school eating. It happened without notice, without tact and in a humiliating way. There is no doubt that for four of our children, it was the experience of the kind that is embodies into our memories and hearts. Even more painfully, on top of all that, one of the students, their colleague, was prevented in her spontaneous act of solidarity. All of us found that event, ashamed of ourselves, but the few among us were able to look forward, even rarer, and take action. These include 4 professors from the Faculty of Law at the University of Zagreb who launched the action "Law every child on a free school meal". I'm here to present and publicly support this action from this pay phone. The starting point of this initiative is that situations such as those must no longer be repeated. Especially under the conditions of the pandemic and the coming crisis when more than ever we need to take care of children who grow up in poverty because it is precisely them who are exposed to a number of negative health and social consequences. Studies show that nearly a quarter of primary schools in the Republic of Croatia live at risk of poverty. The issue of insurance and availability of school meals is not only a matter of health and the acquisition of healthy habits, it is also a question of elementary equality and solidarity. There is currently no single system in Croatia with clear rules to ensure free school meals for all or for some vulnerable groups. Until now, local self-government has been more skillful or less able to establish such programmes through the use of the European Funds. The four "Law of Every Child on a Free School Meal" initiatives are directed towards the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the idea that the government should include this issue in national priorities and find the necessary resources in the budget items, as well as in the European Funds. Currently, the primary school in the Republic of Croatia attends about 310 000 students. If we estimate the necessary amount of participation that parents have so far paid for 15 kuna, about 10 kuna for lunch and 5 kuna for a dairy meal, and we appreciate that in the year 175 school days, we get the necessary amount of approximately 800 million kuna. This money can be found by combining the redistribution of some budget items and using SF plus funds, which is... which now includes... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The establishment of a national free school meal programme for all primary school students is not just necessary, therefore, and possible. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This program is also a chance to review the supply chains of our schools and kindergartens, establish local distribution chains and encourage healthy food production. The programme is not only a reflection of child welfare concerns, it is also a reaffirmation of fundamental social values, which are solidarity and equality. So once again all congratulations to colleagues who launched this project both full support and personal and on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. You, colleagues and colleagues and individually, and equally, your parties and clubs, I call on you to support and stand up for this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u3810	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives will be that of HNS and independent representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Predrag Štromar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u3818	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Dear citizens who tried to submit a request for the energy reconstruction of their family homes to the fund on September 1st, and you failed. Better thermal insulation, but less directing and more money in the home budget are the most important results of energy recovery and I am glad that more and more citizens recognise this measure. However, the interest is much greater than the means are provided, and it is my appeal today to listen to people, to listen to needs, and to secure more resources as soon as possible and to open a new competition. Ten days ago, on September 1st, there were applications for an energy rebuilding of houses. As many as 12,000 people collected documentation, were able to register about 7,000, and only about 30.35% would receive a subsidy. We see what interest it is, so I urge that the new call be opened as soon as possible. To secure the funds, but to allow people not to have to collect all the documentation again but to sign up with the same documentation they've already submitted to the fund. This is, in fact, the cost of at least 2.5 thousand kuna per household, and the documentation was not easy to collect. To those who may not be familiar with the application procedure, I'm going to explain a little bit. The family who wanted to receive a home rebuilding subsidy, first needed to hire certifications. The certificater issues a document from 50 to 100 pages, and it is paid from 2.5 to 3 and even 5 thousand kuna. In the event of a more demanding procedure, the main project should be developed. Then they are asked for offers, for example, for the making of a carpentry, for the facade, and when all documents are collected, they should be transferred to the online system of the Energy Efficiency Fund and waited for September 1st to click for registration. On the one hand commending that we had online applications and on the other, criticism because on the very day of the application that system failed. The page fell at 9:00 a.m. when applications started and over an hour and a half, some couldn't log in. When they were able to log in, they were informed that the call had already been closed and that they had no chance of being on the list of those citizens who would eventually receive a subsidy. It was not even necessary to guess how much interest these subsidies were, where everyone had applied before, it was somewhere more than 12,000 people and it was inadmissible that it was not known and prepared on September 1st at 9 o'clock so that everyone could apply normally. But one positive thing again. He didn't have to go around the counters and buy the tags. I hope that all services in the future will thus be resolved that citizens with an online system will be able to address all their needs that do not require contact with one of the administrations or bureaucracy. Public administration, agencies, funds, should be a service to citizens if we want an effective state. In particular, additional resources should be provided. A new tender should be opened as soon as possible and it should be possible for new applications to be valid for both applications and for documents already sent. The goal is to reduce energy consumption, reduce the cost of directing and make our people's lives more comfortable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u3819	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives will be the IDS on behalf of which the respected representative Katarina Nemet will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u3830	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We in IDS have already been countless times, which from this pay phone, which through our mayors and municipal commissioners in Istria warned and pointed to a huge problem of illegal construction. However, the situation has not improved. However, I dare say that the situation in this matter is getting worse every day, and the information we get from the field from our fellow mayors and mayors, they say the situation has actually gotten out of hand. The reality is that individuals literally act as if the laws don't apply to them, so, without any order, licenses and rules, they choose where they want to build and start construction. Agricultural land, forest land, seashore and coast, all of this is irrevocably destroyed by lawless construction. It is incomprehensible that the state government continues to push its head into the sand, as if illegal construction were not happening, as if by legalising illegally built objects from a few years ago everything was permanently solved. That legalization had its own good side. Part of our fellow citizens allowed them to legalize objects that they had never been able to do before for various reasons, but some saw it as a sign that they could now do what they wanted. So that I can build wherever they want and what they want, because, well, when a certain time passes, some new future government will legalize it all again. Such a false perception of irresponsible individuals as well as the silent tolerance and closure of the eyes of the state authorities before this burning problem led to the state we have today. The lawless builders ignore laws and regulations, local self-government can do nothing to them, and the consequence is that in the country, especially in some of its coastal areas, the government is making urban chaos. That is why the mayors of all 10 Istrian cities brought a declaration last March that called on the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction to enable the establishment of city construction inspection services through legal changes so that those closest to this problem, which are municipalities and cities, can react and protect natural, construction and cultural heritage that is being destroyed by lawless construction. Such transfer of powers and responsibilities would be an example of decentralisation and a reform move with regard to the authority of local self-government. It is indisputable that the state inspectorate has not proved effective in sanctioning illegal construction and simply no longer has reasonable justification for the state refusing to leave these powers to the cities. In the IDS Club we are well aware of how to transfer these powers, and full application of the model and design of construction inspection services at city level takes a certain time. Therefore, before that we will advocate a kind of transitional solution that can be applied within a short period of time, which would be simple and most importantly effective. In particular, we propose that amendments to the Law on the municipal economy extend the powers of the municipal directors in such a way that they can immediately spot illegal construction works outside the building area, intervene and take the necessary actions with mandatory sanctioning or writing high fines for the benefit of the state budget. For example, the current practice has shown that from the application of the municipal director to the construction inspection, until the exit of the building inspector on the ground they know the weeks, sometimes months, so that the illegal object is already completed and in office. To conclude, the fact is that things are not working and the situation is alarming, and that appropriate steps should be taken urgently. I therefore hope that the government and the resolution ministry will understand the seriousness of the situation, that they will accept our proposals and show that they really care about preserving the area in the coast, but that the announced decentralisation was not just a convenient pre-election promise.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u3831	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u4764	Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats so we can approach the vote. Before that, a colleague of the Grmoys will come forward, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u4765	Thank you, Your Honor. I was asked by the residents of Strusca in Sisak-Moslavina County to hand you a petition against the compost that was built on [[/Intruder: A colleague of the Grmo. A colleague of the Grmo.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u4766	Comrade Thunderbolt, please. ... Comrade Grmoy, you know very well that you are now doing something that is not fair and not correct because each of 151 MPs can be asked by citizens and there is always time, place and moment when you can do so. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I'm asking you to avoid this kind of attraction. Thank you very much. Comrade Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u4767	on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Party with a name and last name, Smart and Glass, I request a recess on the vote on this law to reconsider,... Here if you can calm down a little bit. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If it can calm down a bit, let's reconsider all the reasons and arguments about this law. [[/Intruder: Here you go.]] So, at the beginning, I want to say on behalf of the club and a message to the citizens that we absolutely want the reconstruction of the city of Zagreb, we want an urgent recovery, we want a complete renewal based on the recommendations of the profession and based on the vision of Zagreb as a modern European metropolis of the 21st and 22nd centuries. We wish we had a law that ensures such renewal but this law is not so. The law is a law on recovery, passed for pre-election purposes ahead of local elections to court citizens. The ruling did not accept any key amendment to the opposition, or even those amendments proposed by the profession, and supported several clubs of MPs that would affect the integrity of the reconstruction, the financing model, the transparency of the whole process and allow citizens to monitor. The implementation of this law means embalming Zagreb in an oronulo and of these earthquakes not sufficiently statically strengthened, and the citizens will be fooled. Since those affected by the earthquake because the reconstruction will not be swift or cost-effective, and also, the rest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who will pay more expensively the price of this reconstruction than the cost of private investment that the government has not heard of. We cannot support a law that will prevent urban reconstruction and the development of the city and will cause enormous damage to the taxpayers. Rulers have enough hands to vote him, we will be against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u4768	Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u4769	On behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, we demand a break for the reason that we have analysed all the amendments that we had the opportunity to listen to yesterday, some of them have accepted, some have been rejected, we must consult further, although we have decided in principle that we will support this law because we believe that it is in the interest of all citizens of Zagreb, Zagreb County, Krapina-Zagorska. However, it requires further consultation and certainly for us, Croatian sovereigns still have an additional reason to seek this break a brief consultation on this state of security in our vicinity, on Mark's square with these watermelons, Let's see... [[Intruder: fellow Sačić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u4770	It's not a topic, and based on it, I can't give you a break. Based on this first one, I can. [[All right, then.]] Is there another club on the way? If not, I suggest we leave now. The break is up to five minutes, I have the impression that you've all been very well consulted, so if it's not a problem, I'd start voting. Before that, I'd just like to brief you on the way we're going to hold the vote. So in the assembly there's an opportunity to vote by electronic means, everyone who has that possibility, you need to take advantage of it. We have colleagues and colleagues who are at the gallery, they vote manually, and our colleagues from the service will count them. We have one part of the representatives who are in the small town hall and one part of the representatives who are in the hall of Ban Jelačić. So they will also vote manually there, the results will be obtained here and I particularly welcome our colleagues who have merged with the video link, colleague Frankovic, colleague Zekanovic, colleague Bačić, colleague Bartulica, you have entered history. Hello. There he is, and now there's a colleague of the coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u4771	Your Honor, Mr. President, I apologize for the intrusion, but our colleagues and colleagues in the other halls have warned us that there are agents who do not wear a mask. Please warn and intervene because My colleagues and colleagues will not be in the hall until those who do not wear a mask or wear a mask come out of it. [[Intruder: Certainly.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u4772	Okay. I ask everyone in voting positions to put on a mask. And I think it's a practice that we've maintained so well so far, I hope here, that after my call, everyone will put on masks. I don't have a mask here because of the glass, no one's coming in front of me, so this one, please accept it, there's gonna be plenty of time I'm gonna have to talk about. So, I'd like to go now with the vote. Final proposal of the Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County, second reading, P.Z. No. 2. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, MP Ljubica Lukačić, SDSS Club, Pedja Grbin and the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the Club of Representatives of the IDS, the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, the representative of Darko Klasić, representative of Ružica Vukovac, representative of Stephen Nikola Bartulica, the Party of Representatives with the name and last name, Smart and GLAS, the representative Natalija Martincevic, representative of Domagoj Hajduković, the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, representative Zlatko Hasanbegović, the Green-left bloc and representative called Brumnić. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. We agreed on the amendments earlier in the session. We will now vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. Well, we're on our way. It is the first amendment of the Party Representatives' Club with a name, Smart and Glass, the government does not accept it, so please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? We'll wait for the results to come, we'll go faster later, but now a few of these first amendments will be careful. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes, so let's go to the second amendment of the same club of MPs, the government doesn't accept it, so let's vote. Who's in favour, yes excuse me? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment 3. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government also does not accept it, and we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment number 4. Green-left bloc representatives' club has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment number 6 of Peja Grbin's MPs was not accepted by the government, so we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment Six. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government doesn't accept it, so I'm asking that we vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Now we are going to the amendments that have been accepted by the Government, these are Amendments 7, 8, 9 and 10, since the identical content of this text is becoming an integral part of the law. We're going to Amendment number 11. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists, the government does not accept it, so I ask that we vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment number 12. Green-left bloc representatives' club has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment No 13. The Green-left bloc's club has not been accepted by the government, so please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendments 14, 15, 16 and 17 are identical content, the government does not accept them, and we will only vote once for those 4 amendments. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendments did not receive the required number of votes. So we're going to Amendment number 18 of MP Natalija Martincevic, the government is not accepting him, so we have to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment No. 19th Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic, the government does not accept him, so please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment No. The 20th Representative of Peja Grbin, the government does not accept, so I ask you to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment No. 21. The Legislative Committee has been adopted. Amendment No. 22. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction has been accepted. And Amendment No. 23. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction is also accepted, so that these 3 amendments become an integral part of the bill. Amendment No. 24. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists is not accepted by the government, so we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 25. The party's representative's club with a name and a last name, Smart and Glass, the government has not accepted, so we have to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment No. 26 MP Darko Klasic has been withdrawn. Amendment No. Zlatko Hasanbegovic's 27th representative was also withdrawn. Amendment No. 28. The SDP representative club was not accepted by the government, so we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 29th of the same club the government doesn't accept, so I'm asking you to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Here's my colleague, Bauk. Yes, go ahead. So this is how my colleague Bauk prays that in the halls where representatives sit on the screen there is a scoreboard with voting results because of the consultations between the clubs that certain representatives see the position of the club probably here in the main hall, so I ask those who decide what will be on the screen for screens in these other halls to be images of the screens where the vote is seen. It's okay, I'll take it. We are now going to the 30th Amendment of MP Darko Klasic, he has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the bill. The amendment of the 31st Representative of the Office of Brumnic is not accepted by the government, so I ask you to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 32nd Amendment of Representative Zlatko Hasanbegovic was not accepted by the government, so please let us vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment, well, didn't get the required number of votes. Amendment 33. The Green-left bloc's club does not accept, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 34. The party's representative club with the name and last name, Smart and Glass, the amendment is not accepted by the government, so please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 35. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government doesn't accept, so I'm asking that we vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Now let's go to Amendment No. 36th of the same club. I'm sorry, it's the Party Representatives' Club with a name and name, Smart and Glass, the government doesn't accept, so we have to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to the 37th Amendment. 38th, 39th and 30th. These are amendments to identical content that the government does not accept, so we will only vote once. Who is for the amendment, or for the content of the amendment offered? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendments didn't get enough votes so they were rejected. Let's go to Amendment No. 41 MP Darko Klasic, the government does not accept and we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. The 42 MP Ljubica Lukačić was accepted in an amended form, which was accepted by the applicant of the amendment and became an integral part of the bill in amended form. Amendment No. 43, Green-left bloc representatives' club, not accepted by the government, so we have to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 44 SDP representatives' clubs have been withdrawn, as has Amendment No. 45 MPs Rose Vukovac, also withdrawn. Amendment No. 46 SDP representatives' clubs, the government does not accept and we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 47 Advocacy Bridges, the government does not accept, and we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 48 representatives of Peja Grbin, the government does not accept, we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 49 deputies of Natalija Martincevic, also not accepted by the government, so please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment No. 50 representatives of Darko Klasic have been withdrawn. Amendment No. 51 SDP representatives' clubs, not accepted, so we have to vote on them. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 52. The House Movement Representative's club, the government didn't accept it, so we have to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 53. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists, the government does not accept, so I ask that we vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 54. The SDP advocates' club, the government doesn't accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 55. The House Movement Representative's club, the government doesn't have to accept the vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 56. The Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the Government does not accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 57th Amendment of Representative Peja Grbin, the government does not accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment was not accepted. The 58th amendment of the Legislative Committee has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment number 59. The House Movement Representative's club, the government doesn't accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment number 60. The Legislative Committee has been adopted, becoming an integral part of the legislative proposal. Amendments 61, 62, 63 and 64. The SDP representative's club, the Most Independent List Representatives' Club, the Party's Representatives' Club with a name and last name, Smart and GLAS, and Domagoj Hajdukovic's representative, are not accepted by the government. So we're going to vote because they're identical to content only once. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendments did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment 65. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government doesn't accept it, so I'm asking you to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment of the 66th legislator, Natalija Martincevic, has been withdrawn. Amendment number 67. The Green-left bloc's club has not been accepted by the government, so I'm asking you to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The amendments to the 68th, 69th, 70th and 71st are identical content, the government does not accept them, and we will vote on these are amendments to the SDP Representatives' Club, the Most Independent List Representatives' Club, the Party's Advocacy Club, Smart and GLAS and Domagoj Hajdukovic's representative, so the government does not accept them, so please let us vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendments did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 72. Green-left bloc representatives' club has been withdrawn. Amendment No. 73th, 74th, 75th, 76th and 77th are identical content, the government does not accept them, these are amendments to the SDP's Club of Representatives, the Most Independent Lists, the Name and Last Name Party, Smart and GLAS, Domagoj Hajdukovic's representative and representative Darko Klasic, since the government does not accept them, we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendments did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 78. The House of Homeland Movement's club doesn't accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 79. The Green-left bloc's club does not accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 80. The Green-left bloc's club does not accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. The 81st Representative of Peja Grbina's government does not accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. The 82nd MP, Domagoj Hajdukovic, was accepted in an amended form, which was accepted by the applicant, so this amendment becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment No. 83. The SDP representative club is not accepted by the government, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 84. The club of MOST representatives of independent lists does not accept the government, so we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? What is it? Is there a problem? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. So, my colleague Tomaševic warns me that there is some problem in the vote at the Ban Jelačić Hall and I see that even the slowest always come results from that hall, so I would ask only the Secretariat that, if necessary, strengthens the number of people who count or do not know exactly what the problem is... to go slower? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All right. Come on, I mean, well, no one's forcing them. They have the dynamics they have. So, every time we wait for them. So, let them count, please, those who count the votes in the hall of Ban Jelačić and count the votes and then send the results, there is no problem or pressure. Let's really go, I'm trying, with a very moderate rhythm. Let's go to Amendment No. 85. The IDS representative club, the government doesn't accept it, so we have to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment No. 86. The Green-left bloc advocates' club has been withdrawn. Amendment No. 87th of the same club, the government doesn't accept, so we have to vote on it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 28. The SDSS representative's club, not accepted by the government, so I'm asking you to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 89. Green-left bloc representatives' club, not accepted by the government, we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. The 90th Representative of Peja Grbin, the government does not accept, so I ask you to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 91. The party's representative's club with a name and a last name, Smart and Glass, the government doesn't accept, we have to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendments No. 92, 93, 94 and 95, 96, and 97 were accepted by the proposings and, in their content, they became an integral part of the bill. These are amendments to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, Party Representatives' Club with a name and last name, Smart and GLAS, Domagoj Hajduković's representative, Natalija Martincevic and representative Darko Klasic. Now we have amendments No. 98th, 99th, 100th and 101st, which are also identical content, but this time the government doesn't accept them, so we have to vote. These are amendments to the SDP Representatives' Club, Advocacy Bridge Club, Advocacy Club of the Party, Smart and GLAS and Domagoj Hajduković's representative. Because the government doesn't accept them, we have to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendments did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. The 102nd deputy, Natalija Martincevic, was not accepted, so we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 103. The House Movement Representative's club, the government doesn't accept it, we have to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No 104. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government doesn't accept, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We now have Amendments 105, 106, 107 and 108 are the SDP Representatives' Club, MOST Representatives' Club of Independent Lists, the Party's Advocacy Club, Smart and GLAS, and Domagoj Hajdukovic's representative, and the Government has accepted them in an amended form with which the applicants of the amendment disagreed, so we will vote on these 4 amendments. They're identical content and we'll only vote once. Who is for the proposal made by the Government, therefore the modified form of these amendments? And he's voting on their amendment? Okay, yeah, yeah, sorry. And I didn't say, who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No 109 of MP Natalija Martincevic was accepted in an amended form as accepted by the applicant of the amendment and then, in the amended form, the amendment becomes part of the draft law. Amendment 110. The House Movement Representatives Club has been accepted, and it is becoming an integral part of the bill. Amendment number 111. The SDP advocates' club is not accepted, so we have to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We now again have amendments to Amendments 112, 113, 114, 115 and 116 are identical content, these are amendments to the SDP's Club of Representatives, the Most Independent Lists, Parties with a name and last name, Smart and GLAS, and representatives of Domagoj Hajdukovic and Darko Klasic, the Government does not accept them, so we will vote on these 5 amendments. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendments did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 117. The Green-left bloc's club does not accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 118. The SDP's club is not accepted by the government, we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendments did not, the amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We now go to Amendments 119, 120, 121, 122 and 123. SDP MPs' club, MOST Representatives' Club of Independent Lists, Party Representatives' Club with a name and last name, Smart and GLAS, Domagoj Hajduković's representative, Natalija Martincevic, they are accepted by the promoter and become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Amendment 124. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists is not accepted, so we must vote on it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Once again, the series of amendments that have been accepted, 125, 126, 127, 128, 129, are amendments to the SDP's Club of Representatives, and the MOST of Independent Lists, so the Parties with Names and Last Names, Smart and GLAS, as well as the representatives of Domagoj Hajdukovic and the representative Natalija Martincevic, have since been accepted, become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Amendment No. 130. Green-left bloc representatives' club is also accepted and becomes part of the bill. Amendment No. 131. The SDP representative club has not been accepted and we will vote on it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 132. Amendment of the Party's Representatives' Club with a name, Smart and Glass, the government does not accept, we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The amendments to the identical content of 133, 134, 135, 136 and 137 have been accepted and become an integral part of the bill's proposal, these are amendments to the SDP's Club of Representatives, the Most Independent Lists, Parties with Name and Last Name, Smart and GLAS, and to Domagoj Hajduković's representative and representative Natalija Martincevic. The 138th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP is also accepted and becomes an integral part of the bill. And 139. Green-left bloc representatives' club is not accepted, we must vote on it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendments 141, 140, 141, 142 and 143. The SDP advocates' club, MOST representatives' club, the party's representative's club with the name and last name, Smart and GLAS and Domagoj Hajdukovic's representative are identical content, the government doesn't accept them this time, so we have to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendments did not receive the required number of votes. The same situation again, amendments 144, 145, 146, 147 and 148. The SDP, MOST, Independent Lists' Representatives' Club, Name and Last Name Party, Smart and GLAS, and Domagoj Hajdukovic and Darko Klasic's representative, the government does not accept them, they are identical content, so we will only vote once. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendments did not receive the required number of votes. Amendments 149, 150 and 151 are identical content, these are amendments to the SDP, MOST, Independent Lists and Party names, Smart and GLAS, the government does not accept them, and we will vote on these 3 amendments. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendments did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 152. Domagoj Hajdukovic's representative, the government does not accept, we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 153. Green-left bloc representatives' club has been accepted, becoming an integral part of the bill. Amendment 154. The SDP representative club was not accepted by the government, we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 155. Green-left bloc representatives' club was not accepted by the government, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 156. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government does not accept the vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 157. Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, the government does not accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 158th Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the government does not accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 159th Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the government does not accept, please, a vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 160th of the same club, the government doesn't accept. Let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 161st amendment, once again the Green-left bloc's club, the government does not accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 162. Once again Green-left bloc advocates' club, the government does not accept, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment was not accepted. Amendment 163 by Stephen Nikola Bartulica, the government does not accept it, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment was not accepted. The 164th amendment, Green-left bloc advocates' club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment was not accepted. Let's move on, 165th Amendment, Green-left bloc advocates' club, has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the bill. 166. The Independent List Bridge's club, not accepted by the government, must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 167th Amendment, Green-left bloc advocates' club, the government does not accept, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 168. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government doesn't accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment was not accepted. Amendment 169. Green-left bloc representatives' club was accepted, as well as 170. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, and these 2 amendments become an integral part of the bill. Amendment of the 171st legislator, Peja Grbina, has not been accepted, so we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 172nd Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted by the Government, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 173rd Amendment of Representative Peja Grbin, the government does not accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 174th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted by the Government, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 175th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club, the government does not accept it, so let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 176th Amendment of the Party's Representatives' Club with a name and last name, Smart and Glass, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 177th amendment of the same club of representatives, the government also does not accept, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 178th Amendment again the same club of representatives, the government does not accept it, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 179th amendment is once again the amendment of the Party's Representatives' Club with a name and name, Smart and GLAS, the government does not accept it, so we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 180th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the Government does not accept, please let us vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 181st Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Party with its name, Smart and Glass is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 182nd amendment of the Party's representative club with the name and last name, Smart and Glass, the government does not accept it, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 183. The HDZ representative club has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the bill. We've come to an end with our vote on amendments. I've got two reports like this, a breach of the Rules of Procedure? The request for a break, all right, and colleague Ostojić's also request for a break, I suppose? [[Clip intrusion: Request for a break.]] Then the first one is a colleague of Petrov's, and there's a colleague of Beljak, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u4773	Dear Chairman, I am looking for a party for consultations at the Club of Independent Lists because of this Rehabilitation Act, which we have now voted for. I think that every government should be allowed at the moment when it assumes responsibility, we should give every citizen the right to a decent life, the right to a decent life will enable us to work, to allow a decent price of that work, a decent salary, to allow him to live safely and to know that his money is spent in a transparent and fair manner. And in my view these are the fundamental principles by which some serious government should function, the one that sees in the long term, the one that knows where Croatia will be at least 2030. Now don't get angry, but from what I've been seeing for the last two weeks at HS, I don't see that seriousness, that responsibility, let alone seeing what's going to happen in 2024, let alone 2030. So, in order I don't see the Croatian government doing anything, so here in the last two weeks on all the tasks that threaten hundreds of thousands because of the lockdown that this particular government decided to impose six months ago, it just doesn't, it's totally unserious. One minister talks one thing, the other minister talks the other. I also don't see anything being done about the migrant threat. I also see that the law on foreigners you are going to implement will allow all people working from Croatia to leave because their wages are being reduced. And I also see that because of this Rehabilitation Act, you're allowing a huge conflict. interest where I invite people [[Intruder: Thank you]] Excuse me, just for a second, one more sentence. [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague]] I call upon the people who are here at HS as parliamentary representatives who have real estate. they or their relatives to refrain from voting. [[/Intruder: Comrade Petrov, come on, please finish.]] It's not right that hundreds of thousands of kunas taxpayers... [[Intruder: Comrade Petrov, please...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u4774	...so now I'm going to shut you down, from 20 seconds you've broken through, please stick to time. The second is Comrade Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u4775	... So, I'm looking for a break for consultations because you haven't accepted the key amendments of the SDP Club. [[Speaker not enabled]] Dear colleagues from the ruling coalition and colleagues of the ruling coalition, you spoke about this bill, you promised the hills and the valleys, and you brought us into the House a disastrous law. You'll agree, you see how many amendments you've adopted. And as always HDZ is lucky. He is fortunate because he has a good constructive scientific opposition and thanks to our amendments, the law has been corrected, however not enough. Not enough because you haven't adopted key, key amendments. Not enough unfortunately for the citizens of Zagreb, Zagreb County and Krapina-Zagorska County. And it will pass a lot more, a lot of water beneath Hendrix's bridge while this law is being implemented. You know that well. And our citizens expect to know who, where and who they're going to call, and they're going to ask for help and tell them, it's going to be a long time, because it's HDZ, that they simply won't be able to use this law. Given how you've passed the law, you'll also be a disaster with the implementing rules, but you have a problem. These regulations don't come to the Assembly, we won't be able to improve them, so we will closely follow you, intervene that every indeterminateness, that every manipulation, and experience teaches us that manipulations exist as far as HDZ is concerned, so we intervene in time. In conclusion, instead of taking advantage of the opportunity and making the law of Zagreb vision, Zagreb 20, 50, Zagreb 22nd century, you have passed a rough, bad law on recovery. We gave you a whole series of examples, your colleague Brumnic gave you an example of the University, a project that cost much less, revitalised the lower part of the city Mr. President, but also the western part of the city [[Intruder: Thank you]] And this north where you live [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] It's a shame about this law. [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u4776	Let's move on, Comrade Whitey.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u4777	Thank you very much. I am looking for the President-in-Office of HS on behalf of the Club of Assembly Representatives of HSS and HSU for 10 minutes to consult until the end on how our MPs will vote under this law. Although I can say in advance, but we must, of course, consult, that I am extremely satisfied with the way the law has been prepared, the way the amendments of the opposition have been adopted, in a huge, large number, the way democratic practice has outgrown what we have seen in the past four years, so this is a very, very positive example and I hope that in other cases such consensus will take place between the position and the opposition in order for the laws to be brought as high-quality as possible. Far from the fact that this law is ideal, my God, nothing in life is ideal, but citizens of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County who are affected by the earthquake cannot wait and I think they will welcome this political agreement in some way between the ruling and the opposition. I say, it's not ideal, it would be to work on it, and I hope that when the law is implemented, or when the law is implemented, that we will see some more shortcomings, and that we will all work together and ruling and opposition on any improvement or improvement of the same law. Accordingly, I can announce in advance even though we still have to consult that our club of parliamentary deputies will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u4778	Please welcome fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u4779	Thank you, Mr. President. So once again, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I would like to say that we are looking for a break when it comes to the Law on Reconstruction to agree that we have rightly decided to go in two readings and accept a whole series of proposals for this amendment and a proposal for this law. So there's no dilemma that this is the most complex law since the Homeland War and Reconstruction, after the Homeland War, and we're grateful for all the suggestions. From the beginning, we say that this law is a law for our fellow citizens affected by earthquakes and consequences and that it is above daily politics and our conflicts. I must tell you critics this law that no law can solve all problems and all questions. So there are sublegal acts, part of the problem should be solved by professional, honest people and ultimately by money. Money, the government has already secured more than a billion euros in implementation of this law. And finally, I want to point out once again, we've been following two principles in this law, which is the principle of transparency and solidarity, both of which are directly related. The more transparency the people who participate in tax payments, or tomorrow, will go from this money to the reconstruction of Zagreb, will also have a sense of solidarity and I thank all who will vote and support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u4780	Is anyone else picking up for a break? Here you go, fellow Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u4781	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, also on behalf of the HSLS Club and Reformists, we are looking for a break to further consult about the vote on this law. We have this law, so we have had enough, quite enough time in 2 readings in extremely difficult political circumstances to prepare, we have people who are in the City of Zagreb, who are waiting for this law to move forward with its realisation, I think it was good and that a good political message, a good political practice, I hope that it will continue with it in the future, just what has been made possible by many amendments from the lines of opposition to achieve the greatest consensus on the adoption of this law, because I say there is no time to wait. Let's just remember just before the election, and I think it was a good thing that we didn't bring this law in such a burning atmosphere, but that we brought it right now. And now I'm also asking on behalf of the club that we do more final consultations, we're going to give support to this law, it's not controversial, but also to say that we would point out some of the other components that are very important ahead of the vote on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-11-0.u4782	Are there any more interested? If not, just before we go to the polls, so when we're done voting, right after, we won't wait until 13 o'clock to take a stand by the clubs and immediately start the information next week with a regular session Wednesday at 9 o'clock and 30 minutes. We will now move to a vote on the final draft of the law, so I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 138 MPs and MPs, 124 for, 10 abstentions and 4 against. Thus, the Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska County and Zagreb County was passed. Proposal for the Foreign Law, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 12, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a Law on Foreigners and other all objections and proposals shall be adopted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 137 MPs voted, 77 were in favour, 37 abstentions and 23 against, and we have reached the proposed conclusion.
