ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u9699	Nothing, until this is technically resolved I suggest that we move on so that a respected representative on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club Ivana Posavec Krivec speaks, and I hope that in the meantime a technical link will be established so that counterpart Pavliček can also say what he meant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u9700	Dear Mr. Vice President 31 years ago, the world united in the desire to together create a society where every child will have the opportunity to grow, learn, develop their abilities and talents, grow up in a family, be safe and protected. Then the world made a promise that its children would be guaranteed equal rights. On today, November 20, 1989, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the Convention on the Rights of the Child International Document, which recognises children's rights worldwide. The convention was adopted by 196 states. Among them, Croatia has become the fastest and fastest accepted agreement in the area of international human rights in history. But children’s rights are much more than written documents. They are the obligations that society has made so that every child can achieve the potential with which it came into this world. The Convention on the Rights of the Child promises every single child in the world the right to education, the right to health care, nutrition, accommodation, play, respect, respect, protection from discrimination, exploitation of violence and much more, much more. Children's attitudes should be heard. Although children do not vote and do not traditionally participate in political processes, without special attention to the children's opinion, as expressed at home or at school, in the local community and even in governments, children's attitudes are not heard in many important issues that are now affecting them or affecting them in the future. Where are we today? We still face a number of challenges in meeting the obligations towards children in Croatia. The most vulnerable groups include children with developmental difficulties, children living in poverty and indifference and have no access to basic services, such as health care. Just a few examples, for example, of the inequality in accessing early intervention services for children with developmental difficulties. The World Health Organization estimates that 10% of newborns are at risk of falling behind in development, which is about 3500 children at annual level in Croatia, and only 500 children at the annual level have access to early intervention. In the Republic of Croatia, the low rate of children attending preschool programmes is 75.1%, which is far, far below the EU average of 94.8%. Croatia unfortunately puts this at the bottom of the EU scale. In Zagreb, for example, the rate of children enrolled from 3 to 6 years in preschool programmes is 89%, while in Brod-Posavia County it is only 20%. So it turns out that these counties are at the same time some of the poorest in the country with a high eviction rate. Furthermore, children without adequate parental care, including children with developmental difficulties and children with behavioral problems, are still placed in institutions. Some 3,500 children are in the welfare system, institutions, parenting concerns about neglect or abuse, their parents may not be able to provide them with adequate care because of their mental illness, abandonment or death, or often due to low socio-economic conditions. Children's rights are both right to family and home, and adoption in the Republic of Croatia is too slow. He admitted it to me and the prime minister here at HS. Today, more than 450 children are awaiting adoption in Croatia. 1400 adoptors are waiting, 850 of them are waiting for over 3 years, and only 85 children were adopted in 2019, so we can't see a shift on this plan either. Finally, because of the outbreak of the pandemic and the Covid crisis, there was also a crisis of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia. Family violence that has increased in large numbers of countries, cyberbullying, violation of the right to communicate children and divorced parents, mental health of children, extreme poverty, limited movement of children, has not bypassed us either. At the very end, I would like to say that in order to improve the achievement of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia, the participation of children by the Union has been fostered by our children for more than 30 years. At first they were messages from children to adults, from 90th onwards, it was a children's forum, children's councils, and since 2001 they have been meeting with parliamentary representatives and children from children's forums and children's councils. I am taking this opportunity to congratulate them on behalf of all of us for 70 years The Union of Society Our children of Croatia and to wish for further care to preserve the rights of children in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u9782	Now, as usual, we are going to take a stand on behalf of the club of representatives and independent MPs and the first one will speak to the respected representative Katarina Peovic on behalf of the green-left bloc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u9783	Good afternoon, everyone. Let's say something again about workers in the Parliament. A lot of things are heard here, but those who work and live on their work, often on low-paid jobs, are heard little or nothing. The other day, EU Commission head Ursula von der Leyen told us not to fire workers because new huge funds are coming through a show programme that is neither free nor free, but the fact is that we will receive about 500m euros. However, our government has already agreed to lay off 250 workers of the Refinery Sisak, 300 workers of Crosco, workers in Kras did not extend their contracts because the crown, and workers are being forced into retirement with low severance. The shiptrogir is practically falling apart, the last workers are leaving it. Students' desk workers in Zadar failed to manage to define the pay by collective agreement. In the 5th week of the strike, the strike ended without meeting the requirements. They didn't even ask for a higher salary, but only a fair collective contract didn't win it. ... employees in insecure agreements on work in the coronary crisis are still downgraded. [[You don't understand.]] In the budget, however, modest means for assistants in the children with developmental difficulties are reduced. Seasons did not receive any help, nor do they have the right to do so under Croatian law. Workers and workers across Croatia are given cancellations, a minimumer that does not provide nor minimum cost of life is raised to the poor for the poor 150 kuna. In any case, limited sources of income are limited, and our Government is increasingly announcing a rescue from the European Union of new loans that will eventually have to be returned. However, new borrowing through a new favourable EU credit is not taken to prevent the layoff of workers who are on the contrary preparing changes to the Labour Act so that those employed by undefined employers can be better laid off, but to continue to be a clienteleist for those who have done quite well so far. In the crown crisis, help is shared by bookies with rich law offices, hotel chains. I ask, have there been a reduction in the amount of luxuriant contracts between Skorina Omega software or Krstičević's King ICT or M SAN Group and satellites that work nicely with the state? Taxes are reduced for those with salaries above 30 thousand kuna of the gross tax base and is further reduced by one of the lowest income tax in the European Union. Those who had more millions of profits last year without blinking have gone into mass layoffs by jeopardising not only the lives of fired workers who will join the mass of unemployed, the Republic of Croatia has one of the lowest employment rates, but also will endanger all those who are lucky enough to still have a job which is only one step towards firing, lowering or stagnating wages or the disappearance of the need for some job, given that the government is committed to deindustrisation and strengthens its dependence on imports of products from rich EU countries from medicines to food products. The Corona crisis has instructed us to do exactly the opposite of what the government is doing, to re-industriously, to strengthen our own export industries, and to strengthen those industries that provide basic needs, such as the production of medicines and medical equipment and food production. That is why, instead of touching the head of the European Commission's shoulder and taking another loan that will bring back generations after ours, it would be necessary for the Government to include the general public in the development of the National Strategy and, on democratic grounds, to adopt a plan to overcome the situation which has largely resulted in the economic structures that are based on tourism and service activities with low additional value, and to accept the amendments to the budget and that the budget does not really be the budget of the status quo. I call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to democratisation the decision-making process and to provide a framework for overcoming the situation in which our worker works more than Western European workers for less than the Western European worker where the worker is evicted or executed. I call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to open a debate on what, how and for whom to produce to meet the fundamental needs of all. I call on everyone in the House to start making laws for the working majority, not a wealthy minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u9842	The next club of MPs will be the centre and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u9843	Dear President, fellow MPs and MPs above all, I would like to congratulate those who have not left their posts on 3 p.m. on Friday afternoons. Free speeches remained one of the few relics in the Rules of Procedure, which from change to change has become increasingly looser and mutilated at the expense of the opposition's ability to verbalise his views, send his messages and participate in democratic processes. But the way that free speech makes sense when it is heard, when those who are addressed by the representative can influence their views, adopt them, change them, moderate them, how to direct them in another direction, there is no such thing if the assembly is empty, and we want to be heard. But aside from that, I'm going to take this opportunity to highlight a few recent discussions about yesterday's budget debate. Listening to everything spoken remains a bitter taste of hopelessness in which the continuation of the same missed policies leads us. And I hope that by the next debate on the budget, the balance of power in this House will change in favour of those who are seeking change, and to the detriment of those whose only goal is to keep everything the way it is now. The budget as well as the system of tourist communities that we have talked about today and continues to serve to oil the party structures that have been put into the system, not for development. And this system in which corruption flourishes, and judgments made between other former HDZ prime ministers and HDZ as such, as well as countless other undecided verdicts, testify that corruption was the most exploited by the party now in power, the party proposing the budget, the party proposing a new national development strategy. The proposed budget has given HDZ another injection, another dose of funding flow that will be spent in the wrong way for someone's private interests, and at the expense of the public. The new anti-corruption strategy was to be adopted by the end of this year for the next five-year period. This government didn't even begin to design it, and I don't think it should, given the corrupt omen. Using the replica yesterday, I asked the Prime Minister whether he was ready to introduce a principle of full fiscal transparency for all levels of state government, for all ministries, for all agencies, for all extra- budget funds. The answer of Andrej Plenkovic can be interpreted as expected not, but it all speaks of this government, about its coalition in which Dario Hrebak is reportedly precisely because of the announced fight against corruption, but in view of the little longer paths, it also speaks of the stability of this government and the parliamentary majority because we will not stop questioning whether there is any truth and honor in what some politicians are calling for. But let's go back to the budget that reached 150 billion kuna. When we look at the '94 movement. To this day, we can track the unsustainable and unsustainable rise of the burden of the state over the back of taxpayers. I'll just remind you that those years of the '90s income were about 20 and some billion kuna, and today our budget deficit is 29.5 billion. And how will continuing the same proven failed policies lead us? Budgeting is not a cause but a manifestation of our deep social problems. In a country where politics has penetrated in all economic and social life, budget expenditures are not in the function of economic and social development but are only a means of oiling political elites, their partners and various stakeholders. And any correction of these unsustainable budgetary movements by transferring items from one position to another is a vain effort. Without serious reforms with strong anti-corruption tools in all segments of the state, we can only talk about the budget as the emperor's new routine. The budget is increasingly HDZ's private bank of pigs, the emperor is naked, and the public interest and interest long forgotten and lost. The budget that plays social sensitivity and state care is a big farce. Tax bonds cannot bear the burden imposed on them, they could not have done so before the pandemic and introduced or those unintroduced lockdowns which are obviously present, so they certainly will not be able to do so in the period to which this budget is referred. Without radical reform of the territorial and administrative structure of the state, until the reform of all other systems from justice to health, Croatia has only an illusion of security and stability under which the threat of economic and further demographic breakdown is hidden. The HDZ governments of this country have never moved one inch forward, nor will it now, not during this budget or ever, because when they only spent them they could no longer retain power and their parasiteisation on the budget would destroy Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u9870	The next Club of Representatives is one of the Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom we will be contacted by the respected representative Marijan Pavliček. We've got him on screen over there. Here you go. We can't hear you. You can do as nicely as you call yourself unmute-ate. We can't hear you. Can you somehow give a sign that fellow Pavlik we do not, unfortunately, hear? Can you hear us? Unfortunately, we can't hear you. Nothing, until it's technically resolved, I suggest we move on. Thank you. Do I hear from my colleague Pavlich?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u9872	I can hear you. I don't know if you know me. Thank you, well-respected chairman, colleagues and colleagues. [[Great, and we hear you, well, so here you go, please. /]] Here's the last two days I haven't wanted to make any daily political statements since we're... The victim of Vukovar, the victim of Skabrnje, on the victim... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it is a period when in silence we should remember all those who gave their lives to create a Croatian state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, strange things have happened in the last few days in the city of Vukovar, and it is my duty to react. In the past few weeks, the most commonly used word in the Croatian media space has been the word reconciliation. The media hack launched by Prime Minister Plenkovic, where he says he will implement reconciliation between Croats and Serbs that no one will be able to stop the process. I wonder who Mr. Plenkovic's talking to? To us, who returned 22 years ago to a destroyed and burned city? We who have lived with those who are in '91 for 22 years. Mr. Fired on our defenders and civilians? To us living in a city where kindergartens, primary and secondary schools are separated because the state laws allow it. To us who live in a city where there are individuals who know where our loved ones are buried, to us who live in a city where there are individuals who celebrate every summer weddings with Serbian flags, lift 3 fingers and curse our mother Ustasha. To us, who live in a town where individuals in local places in connection with the Orthodox Badnjak wear Serbian tricolours and lift 3 fingers. He's talking to us about reconciliation. He lives in Zagreb, 300 km from Vukovar and tells us about reconciliation and European values. Let him come to the city of Vukovar, let him live in the city of Vukovar 365 days, and he will know what reconciliation is, what is co-existence. In the past few months, the main coalition partner of HDZ, SDSS and Milorad Pupovac, has managed to impose his mantra on all rulings and to matte everything ruling in just a few days because everyone is now talking only about the victims. No one mentions the cause of all these victims anymore. There's been a equation of the victim and the aggressor. He can never be the victim of the one who shot at the Republic of Croatia as an equal victim of Croatian defenders and civilians. Unfortunately, a new history is clearly written. All media in the last few days have written about whether Milorad Pupovac will come along with Boris Milosevic to Vukovar, which he will make a statement, whether Milorad Pupovac will come to Skabrnje, no one mentions the victims of the same Skabrnje. I don't care if Milorad Pupovac, Boris Milosevic or Veran Matic will come to Škabrnja or Vukovar because the real Croatian officials will be in Škabrnja and Vukovar 20 years ago, not today, 2020. But I'm curious, what did the three men do in Vukovar on 17.11. when they threw it away, as they say "a wreath with a Serbian tricolour" in the Danube? What victims threw that wreath for? I'll tell you which victims. For those in April, May and June '91. In their basements, they collected weapons and food products and planned a major Serbian aggression against the Republic of Serbia. This is a precedent in the history of mankind, this has not happened in mankind's history. That in the place of the greatest death of a nation, which is Vukovar in Croatia, where the werewolf soil is soaked with the blood of 2717 innocent victims, making defenders, which civilians, honor those who planned a large-serb rebellion against that same state. So imagine if the Germans went to Auschwitz and bowed down there to their murdered soldiers and lit candles for them and laid a crown. These days, all the media are talking about how the great gesture was made by Veran Matic, the representative of the president of Serbia when he kneeled on Ovcara. It's a human gesture of an individual, an individual who probably thinks so. But that's not R. Serbia's official policy, don't kid yourself. We do not need an envoy in Vukovar who will be in the memory column and kneel on Ovcara. Have Mr. Wolfie send over the archives of the werewolf hospital, send them back. Have him send out the JNA archives showing where our loved ones are buried, pay off the war damage. It is a sign of reconciliation and a view of the future, all of this so far and these days is a great theatre of individuals who are the most disturbing to us Vukovars, and come to Vukovar once a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u9873	Thank you. Thank you very much. The next club of representatives will be the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative, Ruzica Vukovac, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u10014	The Honorable Vice President of HS, colleagues and fellow MPs. So the citizens of Slavonski Brod, but also the wider surrounding areas for more than 12 years, suffer from air pollution. The pollution in the ship's air is caused by the negative effects of local contaminants, but also by activities in the refinery, such as the processing of oil derivatives, possible production of bitumen, and since October and the heating of the Bosnian Ship, which is certainly causing alarming concentrations of primarily floating particles in the air. This is best discussed by the graph of measuring the accumulated air pollution from the European Environment Protection Agency in the last 365 days in Slavonski Brod. There's a measure on Jelas that says that air was polluted 41% per year and 28% was only polluted, 6.3% highly polluted, 6.9% extremely polluted. Unfortunately, only 25.6% of the measurement was good and satisfactory, and even 33% of the cases were moderate or poor. Despite all this, Brodjani, as well as other inhabitants of Brod-Posavina County, but probably there are no officials and officials at the Ministry of Environmental Protection of the Republic of Croatia, still do not know anything about the plans of modernization and gasification of the Bosnian Ship oil refinery. Unfortunately, those of us who come from these parts are nothing new. It is about the standard communication of the Refinery with the institutions of Croatia, but also beyond. None of the above seems to have been informed of what happened last week in the Refinery, when increased concentrations of sulfur were occurring throughout the day on the measuring unit and seriously above the limit values. The president of the Eco-Integral Association of Slavonski Brod Mr. Peter Tot-Gjerj, often wrote about it. He says something similar hasn't happened since October 2018 and from the moment of a dangerous explosion in the refinery. But the citizens of Slavonski Brod seem to have been killed by that explosion and that small communication that was provided through a joint task force to monitor the work of the Bosnian Ship Refinery. However, no other bodies have functioned in monitoring the work of the Refinery and air pollution, and the Committee for the Monitoring of Air pollution in Slavonski Brod has not met for nearly two years. Neither the presidents of the old nor the new Parliamentary Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection have seen or seen the need to hold a thematic session on ship's air for a long time. Sad, but it's true. Meanwhile, the Brodjans somehow come up with some unofficial information from the Bosnian media. True, it's often just semi-information, but sometimes they tell us enough. Lately, we have only one information available from the Bosnian media, since mid-July, which seems to explain the current situation in the refinery, but also the current state of the ship's air. The Director-General of the Refinery of Oil Ship stressed that all refinery facilities will use natural gas as a power plant since December, which will, as he said, create significant financial savings for the refinery, but also achieve ecological effects. It is obvious that there are persons in Croatia who know who will and how to gas the Rafinery Brod itself, but they are silent about it. But with all the troubles that have fallen upon my Slavonia and the dense smog inhaled on a daily basis by neither the guilt nor the debt children of Slavonski Brod and the surrounding area, this statement by the CEO of the refinery remains as a small ray of hope that the Brodjans deserve clean air. Finally, I am taking the opportunity to thank the Eco-Integral association primarily and its rebellious president, Mr. Peter Tot-Gerd, who has been tirelessly following the situation of air pollution all these years, and has been reporting to the public and seeking answers from the responsible. I also give thanks to all those stakeholders as well as representatives of civil initiatives who sought solutions for clean air and did not give up, but my sincere thanks goes to all the Brodians who did not give up, but knowing that they were poisoned every day, they remained alive with every breath in Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u10067	The last club of representatives will be that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of whom MP Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u10068	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I will now speak, although the budget is waiting for us and the election of the amendments we have addressed, I will declare the income, I will talk about the revenue side, and that is why they are not being saved and they are not protecting national resources that could bring huge money on the revenue side. We see that Italy will declare an exclusive economic belt on the Adriatic, regardless of what the Croatian Government has refused for years to preserve 24,000 km2 of our own, I think our right to protect our Adriatic, while Italian fleets are fishing to destroy our ecoflore, fauna, cultural well-being, the submarine defends and, at the same time, the government is silent and has no intention of declaring an exclusive economic belt. That's our international right. That's what he's calling us from '82. The UN convention, the only reason I'm the only one who doesn't see the other, is by courting the Italians like Plenkovic told his friend Tajani the fascist who owned Dalmatia and took care of Istria. I call on you once again, Mr Most, in the last term, has proposed an exclusive economic belt. And now the procedure is to declare an exclusive economic belt. As Parliamentarians, we have an obligation to discuss and vote. I hope that there will also be little awareness in the government to protect the exclusive economic belt, while in Italy when the proposal came and the talks occurred, when the hearing echoed applause with theirs, in their parliament. So from where any more moral right to prevent any government from declaring us an exclusive economic belt, than to be called upon by some ZERP they declared when Gotovina was arrested, arrested, located, transferred when Shakespeare ran his policy under the pressure of Carla Del Poneta and other European officials, from The Hague Court, and then we had no right to declare under blackmail, we did not declare an exclusive economic belt. It is the sovereign right of the Croatian people and of the Croatian state. So this is legally justified and we have to do it because of future generations and strengthen Croatia's coast guard, not that Italian fishermen give us a middle finger towards our officers when they're fishing and huge profits on that caught fish di literally disappears. I wonder here why we don't have the strength and courage to declare and preserve and increase the income side is ours, our right, that's our fish fund, and not that Italian fleets are defending us by destroying the flora and fauna I repeat. I would once again say that I expect, here today has happened on today's day and a bloody crime in Ovcara where Serbians, together with JNA, slaughtered Croatian citizens and Croatian citizens of course and people, not only the Croats and Serbs and other nationalities who opposed the great Serb aggression, that it is time for the income side to increase on the side of war damage. 40 billion dollars in war damage committed by the great Serb forces, aided then by the JNA over the Croatian peoples from Dubrovnik to Vukovar, the biggest crimes and the greatest damages were done to the Croatian state. And we have no other choice and we have no rights but to ask for that money to be paid for the Croatian state and Croatian people and Croatian citizens were then victims. And I call on everyone who can influence the policy implemented by the Croatian government to launch the process urgently, and this is Prime Minister Plenkovic when he was Vukic and said he would seek war damage, which he has done so far, 40 billion dollars plus an exclusive economic belt then counterpart Oreskovic, colleague Vukovac, would then have the funds. Croatian people, Croatian citizens, national minorities in Croatia, people were victims of large-scale Serbian aggression and we must collect war damage from Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u10069	Thank you very much. We'd be done with today's work. Dearly esteemed 3 colleagues and 2 colleagues in the hall will continue to work on Monday, as has already been said at the beginning of the session, once again, on Monday, November 23rd at 9:30, it will be the first presentation of the club's position, and after that, a statement on the amendments. I want a nice weekend. Session adjourned at 3:26 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16768	Good morning, everyone. The first item of the agenda today as we announced yesterday is: - Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on memberships in tourist communities, first reading, P.Z. No. 64 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 64 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. It is the first item of the agenda and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Tourism. With us is the State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism... A break, just to finish reading. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay? With us is State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism and Sports Mrs Sandra Herman who will give an additional explanation. But before Mr. Bully asked for a break. I believe a break is that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16769	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Bridge, I request a ten-minute break on this Act of Amendments and Supplements on Tourist Memberships. This is a parafiscal undertaking that destroys Croatian tourist workers, businesses dealing with tourism, mainly in this covid crisis. If we haven't noticed these reductions absolutely mean nothing but makeup, because the owners, the hosts, the OPGs that deal with tourism are on the air, and you're sticking the last nail in their coffin. Your bill should be simple because the first reading of course is that we cannot propose an amendment, the amendment of the Mosta Club will be one and simple and then we will vote for this bill, it may be strange but this law is worth lifting the fee that tourist communities that are the bloodthirsty of Croatian tourism, and you repeat from this, the distinguished representatives of the ministry, from this covid crisis absolutely have learned nothing. Tourist taxes not only in relation to the seats of those who operate in these areas and people and all that you have listed here is a reduction, but it is so much makeup, so much PR to impose 500 on the parafiscals that you impose on the Croatian economy, and one of the biggest tourist fees is that tourist communities which are essentially graves of Croatian tourism and which is a promotion at all levels of your coalition partners either from the state level of the tourist community, county level or local level. So who's going to feed you this big chain? Our caterers, tenants and OPGs are the only way to eliminate this parafiscal burden for these bloodsuckers of Croatian tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16770	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else looking for a break? No, I don't. By 9.43 minutes, we have a break. It's 9:33 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 9:43 A.M.]] Ms. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, Mrs. Sandra Herman, will give an additional explanation of this law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16772	Dear Vice-President of HS, honourable parliamentary MPs, gentlemen of Parliament, I most warmly welcome you all on behalf of the Ministry of Tourism and Sports. Here are the amendments and additions to the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities today, so I will use this opening time to speak a few sentences about the law itself as well as a few sentences on the proposed amendments. The membership law in the tourist communities entered into force as well as a set of tourism laws in 1.1.2020, and this law regulates the obligation to pay membership fees, basics and rates at which the membership fee is charged to the tourist community, the manner of payment, registration, billing and payment, and other issues of importance for paying and allocation of membership fees to the tourist community. Just to point out that the bonds of payment of membership to the tourist community are all legal and natural persons who have their seat, branch, plant, facility or business unit in the area of the tourist community, which is made permanent or seasonally by providing catering services, services in tourism or by performing directly related activities. According to the Tax Administration in the Republic of Croatia, 178,181 were registered to pay membership fees to tourist communities and 62,177 were legal persons and 116,000 were natural persons. Of the total amount of membership, I would only mention that membership is arranged in a way that 9% is used purposely to support tourist communities in undeveloped tourist areas, 2% for joint tourist communities, and the remaining resources are delivered to users according to the following schedule, which is interesting, i.e. 65% of the local tourist community, tourist communities of municipalities and cities, 15% of the county tourist community and 20% of the Croatian tourist community. We have an exceptional case when local tourist communities earn their original income less than 200,000 kunas then it split differently, then it goes 80% to the local tourist community, and 20% to the regional tourist community. Here are the first reading of the Amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities, which prescribes a further reduction of membership fee by 12% as a parafiscal burden on economic operators, and in line with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 7 May, which accepts the proposal of the Action Plan for reducing non-taxed and parafiscal giving in 2020 and the Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia until 2024, which includes, among other things, parafiscal redundancies of the economy, of course, the further creation of a stimulating and competitive business environment. The reduction of the obligation to pay the tourist community with these amendments and additions to the law provides for a reduction in the rate of all five groups on which the membership fee is to be calculated. The rates for calculating membership fees are linear reduction and the amount of membership fee for all five groups will be 12% lower, with a total disbursement of around 26 million kuna. What is also prescribed by this law and what is important is the possibility that, at the request of the payer of the tourist membership, the Tax Administration changes the amounts of monthly advances of membership, given the significant fall in entrepreneurial activity due to special circumstances. I must point out that so far, the different laws have been reduced by 32% in total by amendments to the laws of tourist membership since 2015. And another note, on the basis of the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities, was adopted and the Regulation on the annual lump sum of membership fees for persons providing catering services in the household and on the OPG, and I must say that 30.7 changes and additions of this Regulation were made in accordance with the current situation of the coronal pandemic and these changes and additions of the Regulations were actually released from payment by all those private owners and owners who provide accommodation services on the OPGs that have checked out their business or failed to make overnight stays, freed full payments and all tenants from the City of Zagreb, Zagreb County, Krapin-Zagorje County whose facilities were destroyed in the earthquake, and all other tenants were reduced by the annual flat-rate amount of 50%. These new amendments and additions to the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities also leave this possibility for further amendments and additions to this Regulation to reduce the flat-rate and tourist membership for them in 2021. Here's so much intro, we're at your disposal for discussion and questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16773	Thank you. Stay have a few replicas just a little bit. The first line has Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16774	Thank you very much. Parafiscal imposes, and... one of the larger tourist fees for membership fees for the tourist community is something that destroys, i.e. which erases tourist workers, i.e. tourism OPG people who are engaged in renting, catering in tourism, so this is a needless imposition you agreed or disagreed. The fact is that this impose exclusively serves to catch several people from state, county to local level at the expense of people who deal with tourism, tourism activities, renting, OPGs dealing with tourism, and because of this, we have what is out of many areas. So it would be only fair to lift this fee, this burden, this one of the greatest parafiscal burdens in tourism, the same in the economy, and it has literally trampled because of the entourage you are destroying the economic power of our citizens, our OPGs, our tourist employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16775	Thank you very much. Answer me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16776	Here I have already mentioned that this regulation that we have adopted and which new amendments and amendments to the law provide for exactly what you are talking about, and these are private owners and providers of accommodation services on the OPGs, so in 2020 their fee was reduced by 50%, those who did not have nights checked out were completely free of payment, and these amendments and additions of the law put that option further. For everything else, I have already pointed out that in some five years, 32% of the total economy has been reduced by paying tourist membership and just the new Law on the system of tourist communities and promoting Croatian tourism is going in this direction so that tourist communities are given the possibility of association whether formal or projected, opportunities are given to tourist communities to attract funds from eu funds so that they do not live exclusively, especially some on the continent that smaller tourist communities have fewer fees than tourist membership fees. But we must not suddenly destroy a system of tourist communities that has been built for a long time and goes to... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16777	Thank you very much. Time, we have to stick to time. Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16778	Respected. Here is a simple question, how many in Croatia today have the tourist communities of county, municipal, urban? How many employees are in them? That's another question. How many official cars are there? How much money is spent on official travel over the year? I can tell you again. Number of employees, number of official cars, number of trips.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16779	I will answer you that we have 313 tourist communities in our system, and all of this other data will have to be found on another data source. And all the reports of the tourist communities are either regional, or local ones are publicly available. So, they are bonds to publish annual work programme plans with financial plans and their official reports and you can read all of that out.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16780	Mr. Zekanovic raised his hand. Stanka?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16781	That's right. Dear Vice-President of the HS in front of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, I demand a ten-minute break. Here I am sorry I didn't hear the answer to this question that I had to be prepared and now answer me. You can find another time as a proposer and answer me. I'll try to count, over 300 we have /Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Femaleman: 313, and maybe someone...]] There are more than ten employees. So it's thousands, thousands of employees who, here it is, whether you like it or not, who are in love with what we call, which almost exclusively, honors exceptions, I know of some exceptions this way some will also be recognized in this which mainly serve as voting machinery and do nothing. It is about tens and tens of millions of kuna that are spent annually until the crown of the crisis, or spent on official trips across Europe, or even the world to attract someone in Croatia. Unfortunately, however, you also know that it is mainly about banking, spending, which would be said to devour and loathe taxpayers on account of this parafiscal charge. What I would like to point out here is that I would like you to give me a written answer to this question of my own, so I'm asking you to see how many official cars there are in that system of tourist communities, and I'm sure there are hundreds of them, and we can see a little bit of how much cars are paying for all those who pay for this parafiscal imposition that extra burdens them. So I ask that you answer my question in writing, I want to hear that the Croatian public knows how much money, how many people, how many cars, how many trips.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16782	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, you can't respond to a request for a break. You'll answer when the time comes, sign up. But we have one violation of Mr. Cappelli's Rules of Procedure that I understand very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16783	Thank you, Vice President. 238, so it wasn't a topic at all, first of all it had nothing to do with the state level, the Ministry of Tourism and Sports. Tourist communities are owners, "founders" of tourist communities are local self-governments, so mayors, mayors or mayors and business tourism or not a tourist economy that votes out whether or not it wants a tourist community, so it can shut it down whenever it wants, not the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16784	Thank you. Yeah, they don't, so the tourism ministry defends this law, then. I can answer, the tourism ministry defends this law and then Mr. Zekanovic has the right to ask the Ministry of Tourism. Okay. Do you allow us to move on now? You got it. Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16785	Thank you, Chairman. I must say that this is one of the few situations in which I agree with Mr Zekanovic's findings regarding what he said about tourist communities. And the esteemed proposing representatives you have actually confirmed by your answer that he is right. The system of tourist communities is actually a parallel system in which you have absolutely no control over what is happening in this system. My question to you is very simple, do you have any information on how much the total work of all tourist communities costs or at least how much is the average salary of the director of tourist communities? We are aware of two facts, firstly that these salaries are more than the salaries of officials on one side, that they define them on their own and that no one controls them because they do not submit their property cards to anyone. A parallel system in an unsettled state that is not to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16786	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure before Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16787	Thank you very much. Honorable President, Art. In 238, Mrs. Oreshkovic was untrue here, which means she does not behave properly in HS because she found that the directors of tourist communities have twice the salary of officials, which is an eclectic lie and a lie. And the injury of those people who do their jobs neatly and qualityly, it's ignorance and one insolence to treat them that way. That would mean they have over 30,000 salaries, over 20,000, and that's not true. There is no director of the tourist community such pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16788	Thank you very much. Mr. Boric, you know that this is a replica, yes, is there no truth or truth in art. 238. ... No, well, she said to say smooth, civilized, she said something that you don't agree with, is that it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's what I'm saying. We can move on. We can't go any further. Please, Mr. Bull was the first to ask for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16789	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague, Boric, was injured by an article. In 238, did nothing hurt our colleague, Representative Oreshkovic, if he did nothing to deny everything she said in her presentation, but rather insulted her that she knew nothing. And since he's one of the HDZ chiefs at the HDZ club for embellishing reality in the Republic of Croatia, I think he deserves a warning about insulting our colleague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16790	Not yet, I won't give notice until 10 o'clock. Here you go, Mrs. Oreshkovic, I won't give you or anyone else till 10, after that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16791	Well, everybody knows I'm not a fragile woman and I know how to defend myself. Art. In 238, you really insulted me, I don't know what you need at all, but since my colleague Bulj already said everything he needed to say, I can only point out when I reopen my law firm, I'm going to offer you a place of practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16792	We know you know how to defend yourself. It's okay. From now on the replicas will receive warnings, for replicas instead of replicas under the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. The answer to the line, here you go, Mrs. Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16793	Here I would just like to answer Mrs. Oreshkovic's question is related to the previous question, I think Mr. Cappelli gave a good observation, we've got a little bit of a mix-up here. The Law on a system of tourist communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism makes it clear who the founders are, in what way the tasks of the tourist communities are, how the directors are elected, what conditions they must meet. And it's not true that tourist communities don't report to anyone, tourist communities have tourist councils, they have tourist congregations. And as far as wages are concerned, this is definitely not nearly true, I can even tell you that directors have salaries that match the systems of local or regional self-government, we have here and former directors, and I have also run the system of regional tourist communities since 2007. Salaries, for example, are at the head level.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16794	Thank you very much. Mr. Dario Zurovec. Excuse me, just a moment don't take the time, I don't see Mr. Grumoy, and I see he's up there. ... It's from the gym. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Mr. Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16795	There you go. Thank you. A lot of things are said, but I am generally interested in one other thing, do you think that this imposition, and we must stress it that it should be binding or should still be voluntary, do you think that this number of tourist communities that is great truth, which is founded by cities, is founded by counties and others, does it even make sense that we have so many and should we go down in these numbers? In fact, a good part of these tourist communities on the Adriatic even makes sense, especially during summer seasons, but on land I think very few of those environments that really work properly. As far as wages are concerned, they generally match local self-government, but they rarely match. And on the other hand, it's not the same if someone works every day, now I'm going to give maybe one lame example to someone, but if someone's on the ground every day working for a 6,7,000 kuna type, and someone's just sitting in the office for a little less pay, it's not exactly possible... /The speakers are talking at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16796	Thank you very much. Time. Mrs. Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16797	And look again, we went to another extreme. So you have different incomes from residence fees and membership fees in different tourist communities in different areas. We know that, for example, the original income from tourist membership is at sea only 10%, on the continent is of course much larger and different tourist communities have different tasks, different jobs and in different ways do them. And I think, lady, we've now started one wrong topic, and I'd rather run the topic that has just been made possible by the new law on the system of tourist communities, these are their new tasks, the possibility of association, so the reduction of all those tasks that go forward, we'd say on a cold drive and more orientation on project tasks. And what is still necessary and what I would like to mention here, which is that the tourism community system is allowed to participate in a fund at the Ministry of Regional Development co-financed by projects to units of local and regional self-government because the tourism communities are turning to a project, but they do not have their own co-financing dose.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16798	Thank you very much. Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16799	Therefore, you will not impose on the government representatives what direction the discussion will take in HS, nor will we allow you to push the thesis that without tourist communities, tourist fees, quasi chambers there is no Croatian economy or Croatian tourism. On the contrary, it is only a burden for people who want to deal with tourism, just as membership fees for HOK and HGK burden for our entrepreneurs and craftsmen. Listen a little bit here to what the MPs have to say and think about it a little bit. And the debate in HS which direction it's going to take, that's what we're going to determine here at HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16800	Mrs. Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16801	It's not about the debate he's going in, it's about thematics. So this is not the Law on the system of tourist communities, this is the Law on membership fees, and I would like to discuss that part. I can't talk about chambers, economics or crafts and the system of these memberships, I initially said what our intensity is. Our intensity is a continuous reduction in membership fees as a parafiscal charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16802	Thank you very much, Mrs. Herman, no more replicas. Now I'm opening up, not before I open the debate I have to ask if anyone on the board will take a word? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate in clubs first. The Advocacy List Bridge Club will first present Mr. Bulj and Mr. Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16803	Thank you very much. What destroyed the Croatian economy, Croatian tourism, Croatian development, Croatian economic power are parafiscal imposings. There are 500 of them, and in this case membership fees for the tourist community serve to entangle and nothing else and burdens our renters, catering workers, all those who should live and contribute to the development of the Republic of Croatia by creating new values in the god given, that is our tourism and conditions that we have, not only in the coast but also in the continental part. You say 300 and some tourist communities, do you know how much money that's from the pockets of those people who can't survive? We instead of developing opgs dealing with tourism, selling domestic products, you imposed burdens on them. And what's going on? It happens that two-thirds of Croatia has been emptied. And if there is anything in the Republic of Croatia that is development, the possibility of development along tourism is development means survival of people to these two thirds of Croatia that are empty, not only in the coast but the potential we have in the hinterland and in the continental part of the Republic of Croatia. This parafiscal imposition is one of the pests of destroying Croatian peoples and erasing Croatian peoples from two-thirds of Croatia and therefore we will have below four million inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia. Only the end of where I come from the Cetina region could develop with Alka, Our Lady with all the potential of our natural resources, a gastro offer could develop tourism with agricultural production, but it is absolutely the opposite. It's important that one part of the money goes to the central state, goes to the county, and that people get to be in love and spend money on those people who are actually going to be just PR and lobbyists, how to stay in power. And that's not funny, that's a fact. If this crown crisis has not shown you that you can not only live on tourism but that tourism and agricultural production, organic production, GMOs free that it is connected, we all try to ban some things, and we live exclusively from imports. And now our O.P.G. who manufactures his domestic agricultural product that can spread through his O.P.G. domestic economy, what are you doing to him? You're setting him up as a member of the tourist community. It's also a respected secretary of state and with our owners, it's the same with the chambers of all those agencies that we have. Only there goes the money and the entanglement is there no visible results. And this crown crisis you are aware that this crown crisis has shown that tourism is a sensitive branch and that Croatia cannot depend on tourism. Unfortunately, your policy of imprisoning from these memberships and parafiscal commitments has resulted from having 6% of GDP out of the people who send our people 6% or 20% or 20 billion kuna who from abroad are paying our budget to survive their families in areas where they develop through their OPGs, renting out their beds, their houses, their own, everything, but it's the other way around. For what? Simply, with this law and all the laws of the parafiscal charge, you've done a lot of damage, more than a lot of occupiers. Parafiscal inducements have led to such results that we have an empty two-thirds of the Republic of Croatia. Well, it's unimaginable for me that the Gorski Kotar is empty, and it's beautiful, it has something to show in tourist terms it has something to produce, so Zagora and Lika, so the whole part of our continental part, and Slavonia and Zagorje and the whole part of the Republic of Croatia. You've done your work for entanglement, archiving, banking, spending money to survive in power destroying tourism, destroying it, literally destroying it. In this part of the additional value where our agricultural products must be exports and other products, exports to tourism, rather than importing 3 billion euros importing food products into the Republic of Croatia. This is the most embarrassing thing. I suggest you, the Bridge will support this proposal, no problem at all, but it will only give one amendment and we will raise our hand, abolishing this membership fee. Cancel membership, we will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16804	Mr. Troscott, please, one moment, one moment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16805	Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who look at us through the screen. Contextually, just to put it into context, so the Croatian Tourist Board is unfortunately only an imposition on our citizens, i.e. our people, means, to individuals similar to that of our entrepreneurs and, frankly, I have nothing against you, but I have had the opportunity to watch, there is a former tourism minister, I found myself at one of the largest tourism fairs in Latin America located in Buenos Aires, and why have I now merged HGK and HTZ? Because I watched with my eyes how these two institutions represent Croatian tourism at that biggest fair and you know what it looked like? I stand by and watch as people just put on a CD about Croatia, no presentation, no personal access with people, and that could be very well calculated, so if you are already going on official trips to Argentina together with HGK and as in HGK through the government's budget, the flying flights are financed by gilded catalogues, and so through the budget of the Republic of Croatia your travel to Latin America and then you can make a cost-benefit analysis of the existence of HTZ on the basis of this example. As long as tourists from Argentina, Chile, Brazil, Ecuador, Paraguay and Uruguay come to Croatia because it is the biggest tourism fair in Latin America, and it is not our Croats who would come to Croatia anyway because of the roots they have and explore where their great-grandfathers come from. So authentic Argentine, Chileans and Brazilians, how many would come to Croatia based on a presentation at the largest tourism fair in Latin America that I had the opportunity to see how you represented the country. The CD is released, and on the other hand the wine, benches and prosciuttos, at the end of the day when such one project is completed, the plane and the Croatian diaspora are forgotten in all possible ways. The Bridge's proposal is to abolish the HGK's mandatory membership fee, not because we have something against the institution, no. For reasons that entrepreneurs announce, or are not satisfied with the service provided by the HGK as such to entrepreneurs for the money they pay. Same here. What services the tourists could see, here, on a concrete example, I'm now giving you. So for that membership that we all pay, counting on the parapolitical, same as the HGK, being able to attract tourists, so that's what we pay, so membership fees, so people, so we invest that these people come and be our representatives and attract other tourists to the Republic of Croatia. From Latin America only come Croats who have Croatian roots. There aren't many authentic Latin Americans, and that's the biggest tourism fair. In view of what we've already discussed, the view of the Bridge Club is that this membership fee that we're discussing today should be abolished to be mandatory, because what we're paying for? Singing chops, prosciutto, sir? What are we paying for? On the other hand, I don't see honestly either, I don't see why HTZ should exist if there is a Ministry of Tourism. That's double administrative costs. Again, crowding the public administration. Until when? It doesn't make sense, as we are for Croatian economics, here we are, so we can be criticized, as we suggested for the HGK, so it's based on the Anglo-Saxon model, which means it's going to do business as a company because if we're all in favour of the market economy, then I guess HGK, for example, for example, an English chamber, could be put on the market, sell, say, data, sell, services, open up new markets and make a commission. That's how the company works. Also here, why would we have HTZ and the Ministry of Tourism? It's double public administration, spending, especially in these years when people don't have money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16806	Thank you, too. Now the club of representatives of HSLS and reformists will present their vision, their vision of their law and will speak to Mr. Darko Klasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16807	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. This law is passed due to a further reduction in non-taxable and parafiscal duties and the most important changes in the law are a reduction in the rate of payment of fees by 12% and a possibility for the tax administration to change the amount of the monthly advance of membership due to a significant decline in entrepreneurial activity. I believe that every year of this tourist parafiscal giving, it is collected almost through membership fees of just over 200 million kuna and paid for by most of the activities, i.e. for some it has been abolished, for example. It is also paid by marketing companies although most of them are not engaged in marketing in tourist activities, so the question is why would he pay a personal tax in the first place because he deals with marketing. It is also paid by all the caterers whether they benefit from this tourism or not, whether it is not whether you have a restaurant on Jelačić Place or in the center of Split or in Sesvedi or in Dubrava, it is the same story with shops and beauty salons, hairdressers. The money collected is arranged so that 20% of the membership fee goes to the head office of HTZ, which means that the office has a minimum of 40 million kuna of membership income per year, and let us not forget that membership fees are not the only income of HTZ because special regulations are determined to receive half the income from tourist nights. Do we bear in mind that strategic marketing and digitisation have changed and that our country does not need this massive main office because it is a very expensive and questionable relic of the past as we have heard it can be done by the Ministry of Tourism, so moreover, it is not clear who controls how these 40 million kunas are spent and other revenues from tourist nights being channeled into the main office. It would be a great achievement to put HTZ’s main office’s costs transparently on the Internet, we would surely immediately resolve a number of cost-related due diligences with regard to the operation of HTZ. HSLS also supported the petition of the Association of the Voice of Entrepreneurs, which requires the abolition of the main parafiscal burdens that burden entrepreneurs, which are also HGK, HOK and HTZ, and we believe that this proposed legal reduction of the 12% membership fee represents a minimum discharge, not a strategic change in the treatment of parafiscal duties. Entrepreneurs have been asking for a full suspension of this obligation for many years, this request is justified because there is really no need for the tourist community to be financed through mandatory membership fees. Therefore, removing this parafiscal burden would open up a new space for market forces and the private sector would make life easier. In this respect, the HSLS proposal is a complete suspension of mandatory membership fees in tourist communities, and should marketing be allowed private entrepreneurship to operate on market terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16808	Mrs Boška Ban Vlahek will present the position of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16809	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Assistant Minister. First of all, I'm very glad that I can welcome my, our Međimurka, Mrs. Sandra Herman, secretary of state in this room. First of all, I would like to say that, as we announced in the election for HS, we will support any initiative that achieves a reduction of non-tax and parafiscal duties and which is redundancies of the Croatian economy administratively tax and parafiscally. The draft law amending and supplementing the Membership Act has made us aware of the proposed reduction in the rate of calculation and payment of the membership fee by 12% and regulates the calculation of the lump sum of the membership fee when persons providing catering services in the household or in the OPGs first come up with a solution on approval in the current year. It is also possible for the IRS to change the level of monthly membership fee due to a fall in entrepreneurial activity by a solution. But as I come from I can say the most beautiful part of our beautiful Međimurje, as we call it, a flag between the country between Mur and Drava, I think it is particularly necessary to ensure the possibility of presenting a tourist offer, especially continental tourism and the offer of continental destinations as well as offerings of other parts of our country to potential guests, primarily by the activities of regional and local tourist communities. It is important for every tourist destination to attract as many tourist visitors as possible and make as much economic income as possible, we must not really ignore the achievement of this economic gain. In local and regional tourist communities, it is a huge task to promote and present their offer, and it is these tourist communities that, through continuous work throughout the year, create new values in tourism and are in their hands a driving force and play a crucial role in the launch of the tourist development of a particular destination. However, with the reduction of the original revenues of tourist communities, I also think it is necessary to find a solution that would not burden the economy, which would allow their business and sustainability. Currently, tourist communities have been denied the possibility of applying to measures to reduce business activity caused by the covid pandemic, although they are largely impossible to carry out their regular activities as a longtime participant in the tourism sector I find illogical and unacceptable. Tourist communities also do not have timely and accurate data on the level of liability per membership fee, amounts and percentage of the collection of fees in charge, as well as on the list of business units, legal and physical persons who make permanent or seasonal income by providing services from activities directly related to tourism in their area. This data is run by the IRS, for which 3% of the fees are paid. The consequences of such keeping records can best be recognised in the fact that recently several tourist communities have been informed by the Tax Administration that HRT did not need or did not have a basis or now exactly information I do not know, mainly had no legal obligation to pay membership fees. So it's three years when the IRS didn't understand or could not understand that HRT had to pay membership fees to get the obligation to repay the funds now and at the time of the covid pandemic which made them largely disabled in the work. So I ask the question, how is it possible at all that three years of HRT are paying membership fees without anyone noticing that they don't have to pay membership fees at all? I would like to point out that the IRS who is currently running that IRS record is currently out 3% of the income. Tourist communities pay the Tax Administration to run control, and ultimately they control payments themselves, run tables and spend time on something they pay others to do and their records are superficial because they still do not have an exact list of payment obligations and those who have a head office with them. They still don't know who should be paying them all their membership fees. On the one hand, tourist communities are cutting off their original incomes, and on the other hand they are making them impossible and restricting their own income. There's a lot of illogicality in the new law. According to one article, the tourist community cannot carry out economic activity, except in exceptional cases. According to another article, the tourist community can generate income from property owned. How exactly do they generate income from their own assets if they do not rent them and carry out their economic activity? Those tourist communities that have their own exhibition homes, booths, any equipment, can rent that equipment only at the time of their own events, which they themselves organise, and cannot carry out that activity at the time or rent that equipment in order to generate some additional income and thus relieve a partial economy. This law also provides for the possibility for the tax administration to change the level of monthly fee advances due to a significant decline in entrepreneurial activity without clear criteria to be applied and in what amount. This leaves the possibility of incorrectly favouring certain business entities, which should be avoided. On this occasion, I propose that in the Regulation supplementing the Regulation on the annual lump sum of membership fees for persons providing catering services in households and in the OPGs and in forms of the tourist community for payment of membership to the tourist community, the Art. Article 1 2 in the section relating to specificities for 2020 to create already equal conditions for 2021. As a conclusion, I would point out once again that the SDP Club supports any measure that facilitates the business of economic operators, with the need to enable other sources of financing to those economic operators that contribute or facilitate economic activity, which the tourist communities certainly are. And finally, since I have time left, I would, I don't know if I can ask Mr. Capelli or not, but I know that in this opening speech you said that the founders of the tourist community are cities and counties. If I'm not mistaken. Is units of local administration, right, I realized that they were founders of tourist communities [[I'm sorry.]] cities and counties. [[Intruder: No, you can't dialogue...]] Now. I would.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16810	Ma'am. Ban Vlahek, you cannot dialogue You have to talk, but... [[/Intruder: What?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16811	All right, so just for the end of it, Mr. Cappelli was the Minister of Tourism, and he should know that the founders of the tourist communities are members. And the members of the tourism laws are, by law, according to art. 29.: Mandatory members of the local and tourist communities are all legal and natural persons established in the area for which the tourist community is established have a headquarters or branch, plant, facility in which they provide services. So, Mr. Cappelli, the founders of tourist communities are not units of local administrations and self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16812	Are you sure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16813	Injury 238, untrue. Of course, the behavior that I said was not true, I said at the level of cities and counties to establish tourist communities. Well, logically, he can't start a mayor or mayor himself. He can start a business. those who represent the economy are the founders of these tourist communities. And I am one of the founders of that, so I know very well how I do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16814	Thank you, too. You know there's a warning coming because the truth isn't the subject of our Rules of Procedure, it's the subject, everyone's responsible for what they say. Mr. Davor Dretar will present the position of the National Movement Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16815	Good afternoon, all of you, dear Mr. Chairman, respected secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues, respected colleagues, Croatian citizens. Here, I'll start with a concrete example of how a tourist community works and I won't even be afraid to say, the Stubic Toplice tourist community. Two years ago, I was approached by a friend who wanted to run Advent there. He noticed that there was nothing going on in that neighborhood, Advent going on, and a man went somewhere in the fall to the tourist community to ask if you would support him, of course, let's sit down and talk. In the tourist community, they told him there was no need for that. An entrepreneur has done what every entrepreneur does. He found the company that set up the tent, found several hosts who recognized their own interest in profit, or the potential of that program, found the performers, found the gangs, found the leaders and all sorts of things, advent ended up in the Stubici Toplice, lasted, I don't know, a month after that, we found ourselves somewhere in the new year, asking how it went, says okay, I even earned something. So why didn't this tourist community do it? If that's theirs, let's call it, work, if not, then at least the obligation to do it because they have to think and how not only for potential tourists, but also for citizens in their area of competence, organize content and programmes. Unfortunately, this year, I'm talking about Advent in Stubici Toplice won't take place because of the Covid crisis, but make sure that in the tourist community, popularly called Stubakov, no one cares. As an entrepreneur I participated in last year's Advent in the heart of Zagreb with my house, with my partners and I paid an enormously high price of rent for 40 days of work. Some Advent last year ended up with a heavy loss from which to recover for many years, we were here somewhere with some kind of tolerated zero, but we still had to pay as a company membership fee to the tourist community. I think, therefore, as well as the entire Homeland movement, and here is the vast majority of respected colleagues and colleagues, that it is an unnecessary burden that only burdens business, that in the end since we will certainly not be able to put it out here, at least not us out of the opposition, and currently that broad spectrum of payment obligations for tourist compensation. I've had one company that's involved in the expedition, now that exactly the expedition has a benefit from the activities of tourist workers, here's no one's ever been able to explain it to me. When an entrepreneur invests money in any project, it is clear that he is looking at the cost of investment and the cost of profit or profit. Investment in the system of tourist communities almost no entrepreneur sees a single kuna of return invested, let alone some profit. The system is burdening Croatian businessmen, especially in this year which is absolutely special at all. Anyway, people are going to rationalize as first only a network of tourist communities, 313 is that number, absolutely too big. Imagine an entrepreneur who would have 313 places in Croatia. It would be one of the richest people, not in Croatia, but much, much, much wider. Our 313 tourist communities, as our colleague Troscott mentioned, did not bring us the cost of benefit calculation, we are not sure that it is worth much, and about fairs and exhibitions in other countries and the possible return of tourists from those countries here and making some profits I think it's even funny to talk about. Tourist communities should exist, but we need to discuss ways of funding them. I'm over 20. As a entertainer, as a leader, working with dozens and dozens of tourist communities all over Croatia, there are great people, there are great programs, it's just a matter of how to finance them. If a tourist community organizes a carnival that will soon come to us in February and then rents dozens of booths there to caterers who will sell doughnuts, sausages, wine and so, I believe that this profit is quite enough for the tourist community to cover all its annual expenses. It's not enough? Well, then get to work, dear people from the tourist community, so think of another programme in April, come up with some program in June, get some rest over the summer, come up with something in the fall, so for New Year's Eve, and you'll make money. Act marketly and responsibly as all those who every day put their entrepreneurial ideas on the list to all of you, whether you buy them or not. So, you work or you work briefly and clearly, you get to work. So, I think that we can possibly talk about voluntary membership or paying membership to the tourist community, and the personal proposal of the Homeland Movement would be to go towards, or towards, its full abolition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16816	Thank you, too. It is up to Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic to present the position of the Croatian Sovereigns Club in this law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16817	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here I am pleased that after my replica you gave the key information all colleagues speak of, which is that there are currently 313 tourist communities in Croatia. You said it wasn't a topic, but here we're going to talk a little bit about this, not this topic or a little bit of a distraction. Unfortunately, many things in Croatia are their own purpose. We have some municipalities that serve exclusively to keep the Chief of Staff and Deputy Chief there. So I'm going to mention an example of a municipality, and I mentioned here from this pay phone, it's the Ervenik municipality, which has, I don't know, 1,000 inhabitants, and it's 15 years ago, and now I'm going to make a mistake, 20th, it's not important, it was a municipality with the highest salary of the active population in Croatia, because only two people in the municipality, chief at 12,000, the deputy head of 10,000, the average of the active population was 11,000 kuna. Now that we're talking about tourist communities, that's a lot like you. We have municipalities that are our own purpose, we have public institutions that are our own purpose. Here I'll say here's an example of my Sibenik. So in Sibenik we have a situation, there's a public institution of culture, it's called, which manages the Sibenik fortifications. Here I know about it because I personally participated as a volunteer for the restoration of these fortresses, and that was the idea that these forts hired tomorrow 5 people to charge tickets, and now there are 40 people who work, all with a membership card, you know which one, that doesn't do anything or do anything, and there are some that do something, but nothing and it all works to have 3 concerts or 5 concerts, it can all be outsourced and then there's a company that's going to do it for you. And then we have the tourist communities, and there are those who do something, and I really do have to tell them here that there are some people who do something, there are some places where it matters, but unfortunately of those 313 tourist communities, here I am going to say 90% of them to myself right now. So the purpose is exclusively to get the director paid and that he often has an official car and that he travels around the world, and no one has ever asked, and you've worked in that sector, please don't defend this sector, you said you came from the tourist community, right, regionally, is that true, right? I've never heard of how much I don't even know her from some municipality there I don't know the characters, the Slavonian, the Dalmatian ones who don't do business, where there's no tourism, how many tourists came by because the director ate 100 steaks in Munich at the fair. There's no such thing as statistics. And this is a simple question, a simple question, this is that I haven't heard the answer, how many expensive employees are there, how many official cars are there, how much is spent, how much is spent on official travel? This data we heard 313 here's one less answer, but this rest please give me the letter in some way. And now look, if we wanted to simplify things, it means that it'd be something simpler, I'd end the tourist communities, and I'd join them, or I'd transfer that job to the founder, and that's local self-government. Why wouldn't there be one department or within the department already exists, why would another director need to be? Within the Department of Economy, there can be all people except the Director. Well, we'll change the law, and here's the HDZ, and we'll propose it, here's the sovereigns, you give, raise your hand that's good because it doesn't make sense. And fellow Boric here, otherwise, Vice President, Boric has a mask, you can't see that he's grinding all the time, but here, please, you turn him down because he irritates me. No, not otherwise, he's really annoying me right now, that, and I can see that Kleman, Mr. Kleman, is upset because he's got something behind his ear all the time, something he's... forest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16818	There's no reason, really, Mr. Zekanovic, you're talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16819	Okay. So, come on, I'm saying, no problem, I'll talk, like it, Mr. Fighter or not. So, some things could just shrink and here, well, that's the same good subject, look at this, listen to me, I'm going to fight this. So you have exactly as much as you can percent, the share of the county's budget, the city's going to pay, right? You know that. But of course, all these owners localized to do so, like they set up public institutions, not one but five, ten institutions, however long it takes. And then these institutions pump up money and hire new people again, and that's the meaning of tourist communities. This is the purpose of tourist communities and each institution has its own director, director, has its own secretary, secretary director, director, has its own official car, and are ultimately its own purpose. The same thing is with tourist communities. It's just that this is funded directly from the cut or through contributions or pay releases, and this is funded here, for a large part, is financed from the parafiscal charge and now we're talking here about parafiscal intent, and it's interesting that you're just a moment ago, you can look at the stenogram, and look at the video, you said, we're not going to use the term to quickly destroy the tourist communities, so you said. So you've also admitted that these tourist communities don't make sense. You may have made one lapus, but I've heard you well. You were actually talking about the fact that these tourist communities don't make sense, you used the word destroying tourist communities because that would be something back-to-back, so it wouldn't work. And you said they don't make sense. If something doesn't make sense, if the fire burns and the house burns because of that fire, then you put out the fire, man of God. If something doesn't make sense, let's end it by decree. You'll find HDZ's places to take care of those people, you don't have any problems. There's gonna be a new facility opening up for something, is there, for collecting old paper and counting every day how many old paper sheets have been collected and the problem has been solved? But, well, I'm a cartoon. We have to relieve the economy, we have to relieve all those who pay for this parafiscal imposition, I welcome the reduction, I really welcome the reduction, but I would be more radical here, I would be more radical here and I would go for a full change of law. Here, you might want to talk, let the council majority talk about having this system completely reorganized because it's really not good, it's really not good, and especially in smaller places, here, like, for example. The Rab of Mr. Borić, always questionable is the functioning of these tourist communities, although it is a tourist resort because then that money from local self-government from, meaning from the municipality or city, it goes to the tourist community, the tourist community organizes some activity, some kind of festival or something. Why not organize the city directly, or the municipality? What's the problem? Why is it supposed to be that money transfer? And there should be a transfer of money for one thing, and that's what? So someone in that transfer could eat some steak in Munich. And it's really like that. So, it's millions of kunas, we're a tourist country, but let's just streamline that system and see what it's all about, and it's not necessary for every village to have its own representatives at a tourism fair in Munich or Frankfurt. This can make it possible for the county or state, but it really is not necessary and that money is rerouted in the tourism sector, where it is wiser and where it is fairer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16820	Sir. Okay. I'd better not. Although, yes, I'm going to say one sentence, it's impossible to speak alone, Mr. Zekanovic himself said he would be out of the question, but it's impossible to talk about membership fees without talking about tourist communities, I mean, I don't see the possibility, although these are two laws, right? Mr. Anton Kleman will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16821	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I'm going to take advantage of, as a colleague of the SDP said she's glad to see a colleague from Međimurje County, I'm going to welcome my colleague from the Istrian County. So, the most tourist regions in the Republic of Croatia, and I am very glad that this law has come to the agenda. It is definitely the commitment of the Ministry of Tourism and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to reduce parafiscal burdens. They've been spending a lot of time already, you said yourself that up to the last 5 years 32% that they're reduced parafiscal burdens and it's really, it's a really good message, I know it's going to happen in the coming years because it's all drawn up by the government's action plan, and it's probably going to come the day when they do, when tourist membership as such will no longer be the income of tourist communities. And I agree with all those who said it should be done gradually, but finally here, it's in the government's action plan and it's going to happen in the coming years. It is very important to show sensitivity through this law with tourist workers, with the tenants, with the caterers, where they can agree with the tax administration, therefore, to reduce the tourist membership fee, to postpone it with, for some better time, when tourist traffic is okay at the level we are all used to, and then to pay this tourist membership fee, which is very good and it is good that the tax administration definitely participates in the payment of tourist membership and I will say indirect and tourist fees which is, which is in principle the highest income of the tourist communities, therefore not for what several council representatives in the name of the club have said to take care of, as they have said, in tourist communities but to realise the plan and the plan and the programme of anyone thinking about tourism, that it is a matter of tourism and tourism, that it is very important that we live in the area of tourism and tourism, and that it is very important for tourists. We are not the only country in Europe, we are not the only country in the world that offers tourism as an economic branch. We're in an incredibly big, demanding game. To get one tourist in your area, not to talk about planes, not to talk about large groups, and not to talk about when we add up at the end of the season when the good season for how many people have come to Croatia, they have not come by chance. They came through an organized system headed in the administrative section and administrative section of the Ministry of Tourism, with HTZ and HTZ executives. The one who didn't see it, the one who didn't know it, the fellow Troscott here, I'll just tell you, so it's not on a personal level, but just to take the opportunity to tell you that definitely our numbers from South America are exactly what they are, but they're not our main broadcasting markets. That's what you need to know. Our main broadcasting markets, where we fight for guests, for figures, for the budget of the Republic of Croatia, for the benefit of our citizens who provide tourist services and catering services in Croatia are European countries. I'm asking you if you have a chance to try to go to... The market in London, which is the biggest tourist community fair, so you will see that there the Ministry of Tourism does not advertise and do not work, does not work which, which it does, which HTZ does, but precisely their specialized tourism organizations do the same, same job as HTZ does. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Suport is always from the state, it's always from, from the Ministry of Tourism or from the government. It's a normal, normal approach, you can check it anywhere. So, something that we've been through that we're dealing with tourism. You also go to Berlin, go to Milan, to all our broadcasting markets where we look forward to results every time we estimate how many people will come to our country so that we can complete the budget, so that we can carry out our obligations towards the citizens of this country and to raise the competitiveness of our tourist market. That's why they serve the tourist communities. Some work better, some work worse, but if they work worse, they can definitely be abolished. Tourist communities are not profit organisations either, can't deal with the sale of sausages and wine at local fairs organised in this, or, or some private joys in some, in some areas they can't do it, they can't be organisers, but they can't make income by that, by that principle, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't. So, when we discuss the system in tourist communities, we should first get acquainted with the way tourist communities operate, with the tasks of HTZ which brings us, which brings us the promotion of tourism in the world. All the big tourist companies that bring us a groin of income to the Republic of Croatia through this tourist community make the most of their arrivals. They are incorporated into the system of the tourist community, HTZ and perform as a brand on, on the world and on, on the European market and on the broadcasting markets. That's what we need to know, that's what we need to know. By abolishing HTZ, we are in chaos. We're in chaos. You can't have a small tenant on a big demanding market in Europe or the world, however you like, performing on its own, no one will recognize it. Anyone who deals with tourism knows that. I'm asking you really to take our debate seriously. These are important things when we expanded the debate into a system of tourist communities. This is, I believe everyone will welcome, someone more someone less, someone for principle reasons will not support this law, but this is good, this is, this is a good bill. But believe me, you understand, you have to understand how the tourism market works in Europe and the world. So here we have found, here from some small interest, that we will have a stand on someone, at this one, at some party in some, in some village or city, let no one be offended, with a system that brings thousands and thousands of millions of people to Croatia. I think that's inappropriate. Here we show the indifference of colleagues who work perhaps, who do not do good work in tourist, tourist communities of cities and municipalities, but here we show indifference and ignorance of the system. So, it's no one's criticism, I'm just asking you to be informed definitely because to listen, if you listen, and I know what I'm talking about right now, to listen here to our very good touristic these workers like this argue would definitely say to my people what is this? I was the president of the tourist community as well as my colleague Cappelli hrvatska, I know which, which large businessmen are inside, who have and advocate interests and small tenants specifically. So it's not just a question that big food on that whole story, how we run it, so but they're feathered, they're recognizable on the tourist market. Through such systems, the entire country is recognised as a destination, and then what happens is that both small and small tenants, the family economies have, have their share of the cakes in the segment in which they can win, and they get it. I will tell you a short cut of the behaviour of the tourist communities of our close broadcasting markets in Europe, and that is the Istrian County and the Primorje-Gorski County in the light of this crisis. An extremely good performance along with local self-government and the Primorje-Gorski County and Istrian County in the markets nearer the broadcasting markets of this Europe. What's the result? We realized that we stayed alive at least on the team, in that part, in that part, we could discuss it later on for coffee, this part definitely...... showed one sustainability, one sense, one performance on the market, with everything the government has done on the covid crisis problem with the preservation of jobs with the good epidemiological situation we had at the time we managed to keep those car destinations alive and I would say to our surprise with good results. And you know why? Because they performed through a system of tourist communities, through good advertising and through a good whole system and the Ministry of Tourism and the Government and HTZ, we performed quality on these markets, and it came back to us with that result. When normal times are just that synergy we get as many guests as they were in 2019. Two years from now, I expect we'll have those results. Here's one, I'd say a contribution to this debate to really focus on this whole story, not being populist until the end and just talking about something to end. The system has to work, on world markets if we don't have a system we're dead, we have to understand that. There and in any case we will uphold this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16822	Thank you, too. Mrs. Dalia Oreskovic will present the views of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16823	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs and MPs. The Centre Party and the GLAS Party or the Centre and GLAS Club will not support this law, they would only support it if it were completely abolished as well as a system of tourist memberships in its entirety. She could not possibly agree with the presentation of Mr. Representative of the HDZ Club who says that without a system of tourist communities as it is today we would not have the tourist results we are witnessing. You have no argument for that claim, if you have, please state it. So wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Set out arguments that the objectives and tasks carried out by the tourist communities cannot be achieved in some other far more rational and quality way. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yes, we are not the only country offering tourism, but we are the only one in this system who may have developed tourist communities, as many as 313, so a small country, but not great tourism. Our tourism has not been developed, it seems only developed as much as it is more developed compared to other economic branches that are thick under every level of expectations of opportunities and potential, so a small country of numerous tourist communities and excessive parafiscal burdens. This is one of them that needs to be completely abolished and that is a meaningful debate on this bill. In that sense, I join all the other clubs that went this way. The HDZ Club was saying something about the system, about the system, so, yeah, obviously, it's the intensity of this government to keep everything in the system as it is because we're supposed to have a great system. We claim that it is not and that it needs to be radically changed, and one of these root and state and social changes necessarily includes the system of tourist communities and it must be linked to territorial reconstruction. Such fragmentation does not benefit anyone except political parties and political cartels, which through such parallel structures draw for themselves and similar direct financial benefits. So, what exactly are tourist communities? I'll just repeat the beautiful definition of the "Destination Management of Tourism Destinations" law. And what are tourist destinations? "The spacious units that represent the goal of tourist travel and cover the area of one or more units of local and regional (regional) self-government." Reading such a provision would make you think that if there is no tourist community in a particular place there will be no interest in coming to it. So “They are gathering stakeholders of the public, private and civil sector”, you also watch out for the civil sector “for the sake of strategic and operational management of designing and achieving a common previously agreed vision.” In one such spatial small state with such an excessive number of units of local and regional self-government and 313 tourist communities each of which has their own plan and programme and our strategy, how greatly strategic we think about tourism as one key economic branch that carries how much, a fifth of GDP. Oh, that's great. What is most important is that the tourist community is chaired by the municipal chief, mayor or mayor, and at the same time is the president of the tourist community assembly and the president of the tourist council, so he is the one who manages everything more and more, he is the one who decides who will be the director. It decides more or less through these bodies by means of its political influence on what pay will be, what will be spent on, how objectives and tasks will be carried out. And how does it work? So anything that can't be transparent through its municipality, city or county will be carried out through the tourist community because no one controls the tourist communities. Falsely, the proposer said that there were plans that were made public on the websites so that it could be seen what the impact of the funds was. Give me a single director and even a director of a roof Croatian tourist organisation whose property card is publicly published and whose conflict of interest is possibly being reviewed and controlled, although the law to increase the paradox in the article seems to me to be the 24th provision on the conflict of interest of the directors of the tourist communities and their employees. I ask which body is that that determines, implements and sanctions? What does it look like in practice? Well, it's enough to look at the City of Zagreb. Let's remember the adventures, let's remember Milan Bandic dealing with the houses. Who can make their profits through this event? And if we really need to have 313 of these smaller ones who justify their tasks, I'll put it so vividly, by organizing a manifestation like I don't know days of cheese and cuisine. Will this improve the economic potential and tourism potential of the Republic of Croatia? So far it's turned out not to be. And speaking of these small smallest levels or tourist communities of municipalities or cities, the law has fantastically imagined their powers. I'll read it, but it really needs to be read here at the pay phone. "Promotion of a tourist destination at municipality or city level independently and through associated advertising. The management of public tourist infrastructure on the day of management by the municipality or city." Therefore, the public infrastructure of the municipality or city is given to some third entity sui generis. “Participation in defining the objectives and policies of tourism development at the level of the municipality or city.” "Participation in creating conditions for effective coordination of the public and private sector. Making strategic development plans for tourism at the level of municipalities and cities’, etc., etc. I would ask the Assembly representatives to read all 20 taxed tasks of these small levels and then remember their administrative capacities. So what knowledge, which logistics must exist in such local tourist communities that these purposes can even begin to be realized, is obviously not the goal. It's not the point of the law being implemented the way it's meant to be. The goal is that there is a flow water heater where now, and we will see this in particular power now, here I call on the media to follow closely where they will go, where those deputy local officials will be hired, we have already seen that, that practice in this direction and that they are going, don't force me to say a few cities behind the pay phone in which we see it already happening, are being employed at the places of the directors of the tourist communities and it will be because there is still this operational system of influence and power of local officials on these other pairs of bodies that so sovereignly exist in our system. And as for the first of my thesis, it really is so, and there are colleagues from other clubs who scored well, and as far as salaries and working conditions and costs and official travel and cars are concerned, what does it really serve? And does the Croatian public know the total cost of HTZ and all regional and local? He doesn't know or can't investigate. What it looks like when someone tries it can be seen from an article published on a portal, it says like this, "In tourism, the showers are fired, of course because of the crown, but in HTZ there won't be any, do you know how much we pay for them?" And there are indeed some data published after the persistent and painful work of journalists, but it stopped. The answer to the question is, do you know how much we pay for them to this day is no? In one decent state, this could not happen, and I am glad that this debate on a law that says membership law in tourist communities has turned into something else. In most opposition clubs about asking a valid question whether we need a system of tourist communities like today or whether it can be rationalized, reorganised, designed into something more efficient, where and where cheaper and less burdensome for our businessmen, for our citizens, for the system as a whole. I'm afraid most of the incomes that are so hard to charge from our citizens are for the system to be funded, the system of inquisitiveness, incompetence, if we really had such a strong tens of tourist workers and knowledge in those 313 special entities where our tourism would be? I wonder if Austria, for example, has such a system of branding tourist communities in its mountainous areas, especially in its mountainous areas, and can this be done differently? I believe that, I believe, there are other potentials in Croatia for our tourism brand to develop, to promote, to advertise, but not in a way that is of greater benefit to local officials. And as long as that is the case, neither will our tourism flourish, nor will our economy grow further and grow as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16824	The last debate in clubs means the club of representatives of HSS and HSU Mr. Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16825	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So the debate on memberships, tourist memberships and tourist communities is welcome. However, I think that she went a little bit more in that populist direction than we should really be discussing, so here I would say to my colleague Oreshkovic, I'm one of the former directors of the county tourist community, you can look at my property card, it's available to you, so you'll see that not all directors are bad directors, thieves or I don't know what. I am slowly very good colleagues who have tried to promote tourism, who have lived for it, and I don't think we should talk about them so uglyly no matter what political option they belong to. I never belonged to HDZ, and I was still the director. Tourist membership fees are a parafiscal imposition, and I am that attitude that all parafiscal charges should be lifted by our entrepreneurs and so is this. However, no one here suggests any other solution. How will we finance the promotion of Croatian tourism? We're a tourist country. Unfortunately, it is one of our main economic branches, which is not good for any country to have tourism as its main economic branch because we see it rapidly collapse with a very small impact. However, we must find a way to finance the promotion of tourism. Here I had the opportunity and as State Secretary to be in both London and Berlin and Moscow where I was amazed by a statement when a Russian leader there told me the treasure your capital was on the coast of the sea, a little strange, but then I realized that it was really so when you look at the size of Moscow. I believe that the tourist membership fees that are collected like this, where some of our entrepreneurs feel that they are suspended, that they should not pay membership fees...... some think that the membership fee should be higher. This 12% reduction will not change much in their understanding of this, but we are the view that the abolition of all parafiscal burdens should be sought to create conditions for our economies to pay only one payment to the state, only one payment. And the state has a big enough administrative apparatus to then divide it into those interesting zones, the vaults to which it should be given and how much for their promotion. The fact is that tourist communities as well, and we have to distinguish them from those tourist communities in undeveloped tourist areas and in developed areas. Those in the developed home tax are very well-lived and can do far better by promotion than those in the undeveloped tourist areas. Unfortunately, these in undeveloped tourist areas depend on the budgets of units of local and regional self-government, and then we come to what the colleague said, about the great influence of the mayors, mayors and mayors on the work of tourist communities because many leaders don't even read the statutes of the tourist community and then chase it with a tourist agency and wants to turn it into their PR agency to celebrate the characters and works of those local powerful people who want to be prepared by tourist communities for the next local or regional elections in order to achieve the best possible result in these elections. There's tourism cut off. Unfortunately, the hardest thing to do is to be the director of the city's tourism community at the lowest level, which is doing the most events where people are really exposed to the pressure of unit leaders of local self-government, but also to organise certain events that are not easy because they have very little money. With a little money, it's very hard to do certain manifestations. Without events, so without promotion, without advertising both at the lowest level and at these biggest fairs where Croatia is relatively well represented, I say I had the opportunity to see it personally, without it there is no tourism. Well, our entire industry rests in all forms on commercials, so... every day we're bombarded with commercials for anything on TV and we also have to use advertising and promotion of what we sell, which is tourism. I think we're doing it too weakly, unfortunately we're doing it within what we can and how much we have. I think that we should reduce the paperwork for tourist workers and those who are engaged in tourist activities. Often, these are people who may not even be regular in running so many different documents, records, I think we have to simplify that, and there are many ways to do that, and when something is simple, it's simple and simple to control it. So there is a lot that can be changed in the system of tourist communities, there is also abuse in the system of tourist communities as well as in all other resources and areas of action, but I think that through the work of all of us, but especially in those who are responsible for this, which are ministries, that this can be reduced in a significant amount of these various machinations, spending without money, guessing which entrepreneurs are trying to get out in a strange way. Joint advertising is one of those models where tourist communities come in because they get help from a higher level, but then these advertisings are so made and quite expensive, and they give too little effect to develop some low-level destinations. In addition to all the jobs done by tourist communities, directors and employees they lead and eVisitor who registers everything that happens in tourism, how many visits, overnights we have, record everything that will be accessible so that they can plan normally if you have more information. So let's strive to remove this parafiscal imposition completely and find another source of funding that will come from the state budget through a system of tourist communities. Tourist communities must not be abolished because only people from the tourist communities at local level know how to promote tourism and what points of tourism are suitable for bringing guests and performing such economic activities. Tourism is an experience, and it is best for everyone in its region to know what is the best experience for guests to come to its destination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16826	Thank you, too. Before we move on to individual debates, I only have one notice so we know that in advance. On Monday, November 23rd, Parliament's work will continue first with its position at 9.30 and then with a statement on the amendments. Tell that to your colleagues in the clubs. Mr. Bulj will have his debate now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16827	Just as I said at the beginning to say that I can't accept this proposal for the reasons why imposes on parafiscal imposes are unacceptable because simply...... of which those who should be for whom the tourist community should not be doing business to survive on the market other than that harrask in parafiscal violence because I don't see any great success of the tourist community in the Republic. And even when I see the structure of this tourist community that my predecessors spoke of addiction to mayors, the mayors of local self-government mayors are essentially running it, so that people who are in the tourist community, mostly who are headed by them are the instrument of politics and are thus set up, they are solely responsible to mayors, mayors who are also presidents of tourist councils. And it's one political body, it's one body that's more used for the political promotion of mayors, mayors and you from the ministry to praise each other, and it hunts you in your bag of AIDS while those people you'd tribal for are basically filling with that money your pockets and in that way, I know that IDS will never be against as well as HDZ against this. The IDS was the main coke and trustee of all coalitions, they managed it, and I know that it was their main and most important in Istria and the money went away, and that is why we can compare it with the numerous projects invested in Istria, proportional to the rest of the Republic of Croatia, because they were leaders of the SDP government, and of course secretly and supported the HDZ government. We also see in the signature of certain interpretations and demand, so this is the dependence of the system and management in the Republic of Croatia. And I believe that these parafiscal burdens are exclusively, the membership fee is exclusively a political membership for the system of maintaining political factors in the Republic of Croatia and that is simply what is for trade and trade potential within some maintenance coalitions. I can talk about my county for a long time and about the management of tourist entities concessions on maritime well-being, all of this is related to coalition potentials. And simply in the areas, I mentioned IDS is the very symbol of how it is being held in essentially the government of the Istrian County, and how in Parliament they are essentially their representatives and what their goal is. We're aware of that. Everyone knows that. We can talk about projects that have been funded... in what way they are, for example. In Dalmatino Zagora, when I mention Sinjska alka and the Great Lady, everyone knows about Sinjska alka, because she is a brand of national Sinjska alka. But believe me, many associations of citizens, here I will mention Ferals of Sinj, more promoted by Sinj than by all tourist communities and the Ministry of Tourism. So an association of citizens where many women from this area have been activated through volunteer work more promoted, so that there is something on the market that is conditioned by politics and what is politically named is purely politics, it is purely politics and there is no other and there is no other reason. I'm glad here's a colleague from IDS came to raise that hand if they function essentially in Istria as the HDZ functions in its counties, probably SDP in its counties where it is in power and they'll never let it go, so the system won't let it go. And that is why a law on the appointments and management of tourist councils has been made, depending solely on politics. It's not an independent body, and huge money flows out of the pockets of those people who deal with the OPG tourism, who rent out of it. So promotion can be done in thousands of ways and believe me, there are more associations that promote their ends than tourist communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16828	The first replica, Mr. Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16829	Your Honor, Mr. Bull. We have had opportunities to see or to give examples at global level of the activities of the tourist community. Of the 313 that exist in Croatia my assessment somewhere, perhaps you can freely correct me, is that somewhere a dozen of them in Dalmatia burn. As a man of the Dalmatian Zagora, can you tell us, therefore, given the membership fees and all those paid for parafiscal burdens in that part of Croatia, do you see any special benefits from the existence of these tourist communities in your part of Croatia, and can you indicate perhaps some projects that have been created based on the actions of the same body that I have listed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16830	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16831	Thank you. Yes, the great potential of the Dalmatian Zagora and Zaređa, our coast that has enormous potential, I have seen nothing in fact something spectacular that we have the potential and the natural beauty and the mountains and the gastronomy and all that we have. Here I said we have Sinjska Alka and the Great Lady where we could encourage religious tourism and Alka as an event which is a national and world event that very little is out of the box when Sinjska Alka and Great Lady are coming to paint politicians and presidents of the tourist community of this one, but very little is done that in months when there is no Sinjska Alka and other potentials a gastro offer that is simply not given from the tourist community except by paying membership that goes to a part of the county, part of the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16832	Thank you. Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16833	Dear fellow MP. I'm glad you touched the quality of management in your presentation. I think it's a syntagma that almost doesn't exist in Croatia in public policies. In my opinion, the quality of governance depends on the profession. The problem of Croatia in all segments... is that it never respects the profession, nor in branding, nor in promoting tourist products, nor in developing tourist destinations at all. Namely, when I spoke earlier about the tourist communities being flow water heaters, I didn't mean to say that all thieves, but, for example, here is colleague Zeljko Lenart, who was personally offended. I just wanted to say that someone who's an agronomist is not necessarily the best person to develop tourism. Do you know what the situation in your area is like with the professional training of the directors of the tourist communities?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16834	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16835	So unfortunately, all parafiscal imposes and all agencies, all communities you've made exclusively for political trade and unfortunately for this political subscribing of certain partners. So it is also in Split-Dalmatia County, although agriculture, the gastro offer is significant, should be in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately it is not. Unfortunately, in my Sinjsko polje or Dalmatia you can produce 20, 200 000 hectares of unprocessed agricultural land where you could plant domestic, eco-products and place them on the market via tourism. No, we're vice versa, we're importing Italian by-products, Spanish by-products, and we're not self-sufficient because of what maybe more people are not involved in agriculture and who would be tribals, agriculture would be the main thing in terms of tourism, which is for me, that's for me, what, and this main one, agriculture would be exported to tourism, it's in us, it's imports agricultural goods. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16836	Thank you very much. Mrs. Devereaux. Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16837	Comrade Bulj, for the record, you're not the only one here from the Dalmatian Fire and not the Dalmatian Zagora... I'm saying you're not the only one from Dalmatinska Zagora, and I'm from Dalmatinska Zagora, nor is it just Sinj and Cetinski, I'm from Vrgorec. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] TZ in Vrgorec and his boss Željka Opačak have been doing a great job for years, that you haven't noticed him coming into it because, but he's doing a great job, she's inhaled a new life all over that neighborhood. We also think of the Istrian TZ which is very easy to compare, for example. with the Split-Dalmatia TZ, it is, are light years of difference, of course the benefits of the Istrian TZ and I think they deserve all the means they get because they have really shown, I have worked in tourism all over Croatia and what the Istrian TZ does, no other county TZ works. On the other hand, I agree with you that there are those who sit around and do absolutely nothing, and they get the money for it, but I think one move to get rid of the funds wouldn't solve everyone's problem because there are those who really make that money. and do something for their end. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16838	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16839	And first of all, I'm glad there's someone from the Dalmatian Mountain, I hope you'll accept the amendments, you've got the Vrgorak area where I gave the first amendment to Tunel Ravca, so it's known, I've visited all the farmers, I've mentioned more the Vrgovian, vervain strawberry here, perhaps than any of the parliamentary representatives, and even from your area, so that's not a problem for me. I then speak the example of the Cetina province, the Vrgorak region, the Drinski area, the Knin area where hundreds of thousands of people moved from. Here's a question for you, which is why we have the potential from the Dalmatian Fire in the last 20 years. Moved out a hundred thousand people, if that's how much we use that potential we have? We've got it real, and I'm not saying that some people don't work on branding locally. They work people, I'm not saying they don't work. However, how much money from TZ from local level from people dealing with tourism goes to the central cash register, in the county register exclusively works, I repeat, exclusively Is it for the trade and the theatrics? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16840	And in the end, Mr. Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16841	Comrade Bulj, you know very well, and they also know that we have never gone with them and we will never go unlike you who brought them to power twice. And we dare to moralize here. And when we say he's investing in us, we put a billion dollars in the budget every year more than he comes back. And you're talking about solidarity. If anyone in this country is in solidarity they are citizens of Istria and I ask you not to present such unargumented untruths.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16842	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16843	Thank you very much. You're a little nervous. Yes, I'm the only one who didn't vote for the budget when he was in the majority and we didn't raise and trade, but we went to the election. You don't have the courage to sign or you'll ever sign for the sole purpose of weighting, exclusively because of the weighting and resources you get, because you manage your county the same way as HDZ and SDP. The same way you manage, don't be nervous, please, he's nervous and you rule the Pharaohs, you rule the Pharaohs, and you see that he's clapping on your statements, and we know that we haven't been able to work with us, they couldn't eat if we went to election elections, and you were managing the TZ, and that was the condition of the SDP, you were managing and pulling the money, you, just you. You're the same gigers, you, IDS, I'm not telling you personally, and you're basically, you've destroyed democracy in Istria.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16844	Thank you very much. You may leave your post, thank you. Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic has his next debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16845	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Lerotic, Istra was lucky she didn't have HDZ in power. So there's one huge advantage, but you can't even say that Slavonia isn't solid with you because a lot of Slavs work in Istria and maintain that tourism, so we're responsible for some of that money being poured into the budget, but we didn't, I'd dare say, a natural disaster called HDZ that brought Slavonia here di. I wish we had some other parties in power. But we're talking about tourism here. I agree that any discharge fiscally is more than welcome. However, what needs to be reconsidered is a system of promotion and promotion of tourism at all. I'll give you very... Examples from my own county, but also beyond. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, County TZ still makes sense, they have wider areas, they are mostly well teamed up, they can promote tourism in their county area less or more, although even I would rather group it into whole regions. But what can TZ micro, micro, micro, especially in my region where there is not much money in tourism, where there is not much money anywhere, let alone tourism? A little to nothing. I can do what my colleague Dalia Oreshkovic said and some of them here, to serve infatuation, posturing and so forth. I'll give you a few examples. In Osijek-Baranja County, there is TZ Osijek-Baranja County, there is an administrative department within the county for the development of continental tourism that introduced the new mayor, it is still new, its first term is, the HDZ won't believe, Anusic. From the moment he became mayor, the number of administrative departments exploded, and so came this special tourism department that was working parallelly with the TZ of Osijek-Baranja County and what was your result? Not that we have more tourists, not that we have more income than tourism, not that we are better branded, but that more people are working on it, but it's dedicated. Is that the meaning of TZ and promoting tourism? Well, I don't think so. You have a micro-regional within my county, Baranja. Both the majority of the municipalities and the only city in Baranja have agreed and established a common TZ, which makes sense you will agree, although, although it is a micro region, the region within the county, except for two municipalities, the municipality of Bilja and the municipality of Draž. Now you tell me, especially the Draž municipality, in the area of the Municipality of Bilje is the Kopački ass, and even in some ways it may make sense, although I don't think it does, but TZ of the Draž municipality, what can she, which fiscal capacities she has, how many nights she has, how she brands the Draž municipality, which I believe most of you here that you've never heard of? You may have heard of the "Batin Battle" monument, but I doubt that, too. And you know who's in power in the district of Draž? Well, one of our colleagues sitting here, you'll hit the HDZ. They're not good at TZ obviously Baranja, but that's what TZ wants for its 5 villages or how many. So when we talk about promoting tourism that is definitely needed. We need to think about the way we want to do it. Are these formal and administrative departments and institutions that will be located within the city, county, etc. Or it's TZ's. The parallelism in that system doesn't seem to serve anything, and neither does this vaccination on micro, micro, micro, micro, micro levels. It's hard to brand counties as such because counties, well now after many years people have already, at least our people have gotten used to it, but let me ask you, who's identifying with the county? I'll never say to myself I'm an Ossetian Baranjac, I'm a Ossetian. Will someone say to themselves that he's a mammalian Moslavian? He won't say he's from Kutina, he'll say he's from Popovaca, he'll say he's from Sisko. So it's very, very difficult to apply it, or that identity to impose in the way it's trying. So, what we should certainly take out of this debate, I think we'll all agree here that every reduction in parafiscal burdens is more than okay, especially now in the situation we are in because of the pandemic, but otherwise we'll think about how we're going to conjecture our future, future advertising and branding tourism, not just continental about which, by getting the circumstances most I know but also everyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16846	Thank you, too. Stay. First, the first line has Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16847	Thank you very much. Comrade Hajdukovic, I agree that with you, everyone is looking from their perspective, from their place to TZ. Now I'm going to look from my perspective. However, you mentioned that it was good that the IDS had nothing to do with HDZ tourism. Not that he didn't have, but the main arm with HDZ is from Mr. Radin's IDS Club at their club. So this addiction and connection to the county is obvious, so it's better and fairer and more correct when someone in the coalition is with someone than that one hand depends on one club, and they act like an opposition, here's clean as a correction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16848	You can answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16849	Thank you very much. Well, I'm not, nor will I be here as an IDS attorney. I can only say that what I see and what the Croatian public sees is when Istria is concerned they are all on their feet. When it comes to Slavonia, where will you see the Slavonic HDZ? Nowhere. They don't care about their region. The HDZ, members of the HDZ, only profit there. You're the only one who can get money from, from the funds. They are the only ones who are employed in TZs in the management departments for the promotion of tourism, etc., they are well, they lack nothing in Slavonia, but the common man is still missing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16850	Mrs. Devereaux. Sabina the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16851	Thank you very much. Mr. Hajdukovic, when you spoke about improving continental tourism and tourism development, especially in Osijek-Baranja County, you showed that the HDZ has actually decided to strengthen the work of TZ in a way that not only has the number of administrative departments exploded since the mayor of Mr. Anusic was there but also the special concern of water for tourism. And I would also tell you now that the Prime Minister is probably also the Minister of Slavonia and Baranja to run regional funds, but also the Mayor of Anusic, all of this will be golded by Slavonia, especially tourism, but not unfortunately continental tourism, nor the quality of life of Slavonians and Baranjacs, because we have seen that some strange ways of not revolution but Slavonian obstructions are meant for better life for Slavonians, but HDZ in hotels on the coast. How do you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16852	Please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16853	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We've mentioned it here several times, and unfortunately that's the case. The Slavonia project is a pure pear project. We have a lot of problems actually about it, just, just what you're saying, so the way you assign money. But the same fact that there is no formal project of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. You have no competition to write this is for the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, but it is a list of projects that are implemented in this area and implemented regardless. We do have one development agreement, but it's a small segment of a wider picture. As I said in the end, it turns out that the HDZ only in Slavonia is good, the only ones in Slavonia will remain as everything that is not in HDZ will go from Slavonia to bread, either to Zagreb and Istria or somewhere else.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16854	And Mr. Pavić, Željko Pavić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16855	Your Honor, I believe we must welcome any reduction of parafiscal duties, as well as this one. However, we must consider how this parafiscal imposition should actually be completely abolished. You made a great suggestion about TZs. We should consider a new law on how to reorganise and restructure TZs. It doesn't make sense that TZ is founded in places or municipalities and cities where there really isn't any potential. Let's see how to round it up, how to make TZ make sense and that it can offer something. If we don't, we'll have the same problem again. We need to find ways to fund this TZ differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16856	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16857	I absolutely agree with my colleague and not to turn out to be absolutely against all TZs, municipalities and cities. Unfortunately, it depends on individuals first. Some people are really doing a great job. However, branding a small municipality as I said examples from my county is very difficult, primarily because of fiscal capacity. The municipalities on the coast, for example in Istria and Dalmatia, but not in the Dalmatian hinterland and not in Zagorje is much easier if they have more income than tourism. Our municipalities that do not have it are very difficult for them to come up with any significant means at all to be able to get into branding, and then let alone brand a small municipality of 2,000 inhabitants. So it's very difficult and the whole system needs to be redefined and reconsidered. Based on the county TZ may be the beginning, but the real reform must come and agree, although the reduction of parafiscal burdens is good, it must not be the only step we will remain on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16858	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debates. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16859	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the esteemed State Secretary with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us an amendment to the membership law in TZ. When we're discussing this law, then it seems to me that I need to do something when you're doing something that's your key words, your tourism, your crown, your parafiscal intrusions. So tourism. Tourism is an extremely important branch in Croatia. Croatian GDP is based on 20% on tourism. Everyone warns us about this fact that it's not good and during the crown it turns out that this summer we could still maintain this tourist season and have income, which is actually compared to the monster that is harassing the world extremely well. Croatia, I don't need to teach you, is a very strange country, an unusual form and certainly has developed tourism. Tourism developed first and foremost by the sea, and then in the continental parts something a little weaker, different and, and so it is today. Those TZs that are located and operating along the coastal line are incomparably easier, simpler, indeed have more opportunities and income incomparably, and those in the continental part have much more problems. And now we come to that key word, it's parafiscal intrusion. The fact is, and we can't deny that memberships in TZ are parafiscal intrusions. The fact is, at this age of crowns, we've already reduced that somewhere in April-May. And they are also colleagues working at the Ministry of Tourism and Sport aware that it is a burden, aware that it will have to turn into something else and that this parafiscal imposition will simply have to be defined and to go with it. Now, you've got twice. You have one time to go slow, you have another time to go fast. It's like when gangrene or something of you happens on your finger, you come to a doctor, and the doctor says, it's not gonna be good, we can cut a piece by piece, or we can cut it all off right now, so you'll be faster, better, and it'll be simpler for you. The model that the ministry has decided on is we're going to cut a little bit, and then we're going to get to the real situation. It seems to us that a model that would be better, more efficient and more reasonable to tell ourselves the truth right now, to say that it's a serious parafiscal imposition, to find a model and a way to function, and that, there's a kind of corny word that we all use there, and it's called reform, to know what we want to have. What are TZ? These are organizations that operate according to the destination principle. So, if our destination principle is, if we have the principle that this destination is being promoted, that tourism is developing, that it is being used, that all those who provide tourism services in terms of destination, then TZ should also be established in relation to destinations, rather than to certain needs, in relation to individual interests of individual local officials. So, the principle of destination is the principle on which all the projects that are from tourism you develop them according to the principle of destination. Therefore, it should continue to be so. And if we were just doing what we decided when we decided to set up a TZ, I'm sure today we wouldn't, for the second time, be reducing that parafiscal load. What I would like to say, in conclusion, seems to me, or not even, to me, but I'm sure, after the ministry does an analysis, let it do an analysis of what is at sea, and what is on land, let it suggest, on the principle of destination, how can this work. Of course, we always find ourselves in a situation to say so you've reduced something well, but from the crown and the crown of the crisis or whatever we call it, we'd have to teach them something, and we'd have to teach them the following that it proved that we should function in crisis conditions and that it should also be a model for normal conditions. So really solution, make really another model TZ and parafiscal force removed Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16860	Time. Thank you. You have one replica from Mr. Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16861	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Taritash, here's the story of the destination. We have, therefore, a destination from micro destinations, we get macro destinations, the macro destination is, is Croatia. So, all that needs to be implemented in this macro-destination, in Croatia are doing our TZ from municipal, urban, county, so territory or destinations, however you like and we sell it through the HTZ system on the market. In that sense, then, the following should be said. What you just said, there are large companies, large companies that are based in this town in Zagreb where absolutely the entire tourist membership belongs to the City of Zagreb. I mean, for example, Croatian telecom. So the complete tourist membership of the Croatian Telecom belongs to the TZ City of Zagreb and it uses them as such. So there are several models which needs to be discussed and definitely a little [[/Intruder: Mr. Kliman's time.]] More justly relieve that budget, not just this one watch [[Intruder: Thank you]] to reduce tourist membership [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16862	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Dark-Taritate answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16863	Thank you very much. I rarely use this pay phone to mention people by name and last name, even more rarely to mention an example of some municipalities and cities. I deliberately started my debate in a way to say that in Croatia it is not the same. It cannot be the same for the area by the sea and cannot be the same for continental Croatia. We are in one decision to develop tourism throughout Croatia aware that we do not have the same initial positions and are aware that it cannot develop equally. But no one can justify 300, the existence of 313 TZ. I'm surprised there aren't 550 of them, because we have so many municipalities and cities. And in them, I pulled the data from the 229 directors. Well, it can't be the sense of a TZ to hire someone in TZ. It's a point. to do what needs to be done, and to develop an individual destination. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16864	You, too. Now it's Mr. Darko Klasic's turn. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mrs. Devereaux. Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16865	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear secretary of state, assistant, colleague and colleague. So this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Memberships in TZ is commendable and it shows that this government also wants to relieve our entrepreneurs, our businessmen and 12% in no way is a small percentage. We recently talked about another package of tax reform where entrepreneurs, businessmen and our citizens are further relieved so that from 2017 to 2021 this discharge will amount to more than 10 billion kuna. When we talk about only one segment of tax for, tax or profit tax law, we can see that the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic was welcomed by the 20% tax, and only in the more tax-free ones, entrepreneurs who are no longer in the tax dollars by increasing revenue from 3.5 million to 7 million kuna were relieved of 112 000 entrepreneurs and 93% of entrepreneurs, and those who have had a 20% profit tax were reduced by large and medium-sized enterprises to 18, they will go to 12, and now they will go to 10%. No matter what is heard here in this assembly, what needs to be done in tourism and what comments we have heard on this law, I can say that the Assembly Committee on Tourism is in which opposition clubs also delegate those of their colleagues who know the most about tourism or their closest unanimously supported this law and that is enough to say that the law is good and praiseworthy. To talk about the need to abolish TZ as if it were forgotten, here I am sorry that there is now no colleagues of Bulja, who is such a big, strong advocate of the need to abolish TZ, and I am very interested in who would then promote cultural heritage, the natural beauty of the region, promote selective tourism, organise a certain event, as we popularly know in tourism to call the renter "Bama Marom", would then this "grandma Mara" walk on tourist fairs or, for example, the "Bama Mara" They suggest that Croatia should not be represented at tourist fairs at all. Or, for example, When needed, they might say that we can do all this now on the line, that maybe the "grandmother mara" edits their website, and then that she collects all those from her area, I don't know, who have a particularly interesting gastro, gastronomy. We've heard a lot about both adventures and cottages and tents, as if it's forgotten that it's not TZ that can rent a booth or can rent a public surface, it's known that they work in municipalities and cities. So it's really hard for me to even refer to everything that's been heard. I would say that the government of the Republic of Croatia has tried to do a lot of things all this time and that we were proud to say that we had 3 successful and every year record year, that despite the great problems, we had achieved the results better than expected because it was expected to be at 30% of the tourist season, and only August had traffic 60% compared to 2019, and nights 67%, etc., during the first 8 months we were at the level of 57% of the tourist season and figures from the previous year. However, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not only leaving activities and incentives for tourism development to be based on funds received from residence tax and tourist membership fees, but also that, in its resources from the state budget, we can see significant funds from the budget that we had on our benches yesterday. 159 million kuna was allocated to promote tourism development in 2020 and the next '21st. is planned as much as 100% more, almost 100% more or 317 million. What will make our catering and tourist workers happy is that we also have a number of projects financed from European funds, especially when it comes to education in the tourism and catering sector. especially professional, tourism is our great opportunity and let's not talk [[Intruder: Thank you.]] about tourism if we don't know enough. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16866	You've got a lot of replicas, so you'll be able to complete it, but let's face it, maybe you've given one good idea to respect everything you've said to some grandmother Maru or some brother-in-law to Nina, every so many of these fairs should let them come because these are values that are lost slowly in Europe, and we still have them thank God.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16867	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16868	Mr. Josip Boric, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16869	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Fellow Members of Martinchev means two positions this morning in the debate on the proposal of the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities, the position of ruling, the Government and the Ministry means that this system should be upgraded in a way that at the moment when we have a crisis we should give discounts is to reduce the burden of parafiscal charges and the second attitude that has been crystallized this morning means that everything should be brought down to the ground in the sense that tourist communities should not exist because they are unnecessary and that they do not have any function. What's important and what I'm going to try in my debate too, but I think I'd like to hear your opinion as well, these are little tenants and this part that's left as part of the law that's going to be discussed. Since this is the first reading, until the second reading, to really consider reducing this as a permanent solution to this fee that we now have on the bed as a cot, that it is reduced by a double meaning from 45 maybe to 22.5 kuna or to 20 kuna to be rounded up and that would be the most helpful in our part of the Adriatic Croatia in which this part is the most burdened while the continental one depends most on the memberships that are now [[Intruder: Thank you time, excuse me, forgive me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16870	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16871	Thank you very much, fellow Borić, all of us who come from the coast especially you from the island know what this means to develop tourism for our area and a special number of small tenants, for example. in our Sibenik-Knin County, we have the largest number of small tenants compared to all other areas, and we must not ignore them, because they are the tourist communities and they are the only ones who can promote them and present them in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16872	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16873	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues had one question, and before that, in the area of Drniša on 31.12. last year we had 91 accommodation facilities with 687 beds in family accommodation, this year which is difficult, the situation on 30.9. this year new 48 accommodation facilities with 247 beds. My question is, do you think that in these touristy underdeveloped areas it is necessary to have tourist communities and yet another here I have heard the findings of the Tourist Board of Drniš is not a member of HDZ and has 2 universities completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16874	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16875	Thank you very much. A colleague of Begonj can say all the congratulations to you and Drniš and everything you do for the development of tourism in that area, and this pandemic of Covid has shown in particular how many guests prefer exactly the same locations where they can be alone, lonely means now it comes into question and there is a bigger problem of accommodation facilities in the hotel or as we heard aerosts like Dubrovnik yesterday, now they can bring us such locations as Drniš better and statistics and more and more arrivals and overnights in the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16876	Mr. Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16877	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, in the introduction, you said that this government did recognize and reduce parafiscal burdens and taxes, etc., and this is exactly what this example is. On the arrival of this Government already in 2016 we started to cut these parafiscal burdens, i.e. The membership fee, first 15, then 5, now 12. I know someone has said here that a piece by piece etc., but the system needs to be used to and find a solution new to the system specifically mentioned on the continent. At this point, if we were to cancel our tourist membership, I'm sure that through our statistics, over 80, 80% of the tourist communities on the continent would disappear overnight, disappear. So without that, we certainly can't stop overnight, but in time, I'm the first one to shrink and shut down. That's why we've given some reasonable time to adjust New Law on Tourist Communities. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16878	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16879	Thank you very much, fellow Cappelli, all congratulations to you personally because you have been one of the promoters of these laws and new discharges and it is interesting to hear how colleagues from the continental Croatia, some colleagues believe that the tourist communities should be put out, and we also see Drniš, for example, how thanks to these and the tourist communities, and precisely because he is at the head of that tourist community and the mayor can feel this space and best promote and organise the tourist activity of his, his end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16880	Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16881	Thank you very much. So if you don't take this the wrong way, I'm not just about to put an end to thinking about the new system, but I'm going to give you an example of how this tourist community works. Here is an example for you of the town of Nash and a colleague who worked in the exchange shop. There's a tourist here, watch the exchange room, there's some logic, says I have all afternoon to spend in Nasice what to see because the tourist office of course is gone, the tourist community is closed no one, asks her, says she goes to the ancient museum, so she doesn't work, and well go to the monastery there you have incunabulas, old books, and they don't exactly receive anyone, and she says what if I tell him then. So, we don't have a tourist offer, we don't have a developed suburban transport that can send it to a winery that's rich or something, and the tourist community that works is closed. The lady who works in the exchange shop is neither dressed nor knows where the tourist should be sent, how he should spend his time. So we need to think about reforming the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16882	Time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16883	Thank you very much, colleague Hajdukovic has examples and positive and negative, I just wonder now and on this example of yours, and if there was no tourist community and office that at least works I don't know from 8 to 12, 14, or I don't know in our season for a nonstop, where it would then be addressed, again to a private or to a exchange office or tomorrow when there is no exchange office then I don't know about the store or the bakery. I think that the tourist communities as such are good, necessary, now whether they can be more or better with this much or so much resources and that there are examples where safe means are used less rationally, and there are also those who use it very well and rationally and give an extremely high quality presentation of their end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16884	Thank you very much. Mrs. Mariana Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16885	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague you've touched on some important topics during your presentation, you've talked about the importance of discharging this sector, because we know that with 5 rounds of tax reform, nearly 10 billion kunas amounts to disbursements for our economics and for citizens where the tourism sector is involved, so this law is an additional contribution to this because we know that during this crisis, the tourism sector has indeed borne a great burden on its back. But I would agree with you when you say that abolishing the tourist communities is one populist proposal because you can't put such a proposal here and consider it serious when it comes from those who never want to take responsibility for anything, it's not bread, so that we take a knife and cut the shit so that you can't even end the tourist communities overnight because it would have far-reaching consequences. It is said that every crisis is an opportunity so I am interested in your opinion in how you who come from a relatively well-developed touristic region see our orientation towards sustainable ways of tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16886	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16887	Thank you very much, dear fellow Petir, and you have often presented in your presentations, and I think it is very important and especially now in this crisis to make sure that on our Croatian tables there are Croatian products, that our village is put first and when it comes to the development of tourism activities, or continental Croatia, because we really have a lot of quality offers. And what we're talking about today and for this pay phone can't be a farmer alone, nor can that owner of the O.P.G. promote himself, find a way out of the market. In the system of tourist communities and finance, too, special attention has been paid to small tourist communities whose incomes are less than 200,000 kuna, and the percentage they are incomeing is greater and more significant than ours on the coast where this traffic and income is higher, higher.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16888	Thank you very much. And Mr. Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16889	Here's my thanks, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you come from a tourist resort and you know that tourism is a very serious branch for our country and that only through a system of tourist communities can a good result be achieved. Tourist communities have no alternative at this time, but we have on one side the populists who undermine this role and the importance of the tourist community, and we actually know that pulism squared is actually pure zero, one that doesn't offer an alternative, and it suggests that dodging something actually breaks down as one of our respected, respected historian and greats of Croatian history, glares in fog. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16890	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16891	Thank you, dear fellow Shimičević, you're right. Indeed, a lot of populists give themselves the right to say a lot of things about tourism and very difficult words. I would say that maybe the biggest tragedy of tourism is what everyone else in the conversation thinks they know everything about tourism and that they should either sleep at a hotel or order coffee in a cafe.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16892	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16893	In 238, and this is thousands of times respected MPs, how can you call such representatives or say that they slept in a hotel once, drank coffee in a local cafe and that they have the right to talk about tourism. Let's be ashamed of you here, I'm taking a hard risk of 17 warnings, one of your friends here is boasting, no one has said anything that needs to be lifted, the tourist communities should be put to become self-sustainable, and you should be ashamed because of this play of yours even to be ashamed of yourself. We laugh at you, we laugh. [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you, forgive me, time.]] [[I didn't say I wasn't for MPs, I wasn't for MPs, I was careful.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16894	Time, time I'm sorry, that's my assignment. I'm sorry, ma'am. [[I didn't tell you about the MPs, I was just looking out.]] What am I supposed to do for coffee so you guys can keep running or how, you're going to preside? Uh, Mr. Dretar didn't say a single name for Mrs. [[Come on, you're funny.]] e and this [[/Intruder: That's right.]] I won't give a warning, but let's lower our passions a little bit, each one of us says his opinion, and then when it comes to order, the other one says his opinion, so let's not get too upset, too. [[She looked at me, so I felt...]] Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16895	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16896	Excuse me, Mr. Dretar. [[I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16897	Give me time, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16898	There you go, it's okay, there you go. Put pressure on it. What's somebody got on?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16899	Here it is, here I would just remind you and your colleagues that there is a third approach, so it's not just about abolishing, we've proposed redefineing, restructuring, reorganisation of tourist communities so that these communities really make sense. I'll tell you why we suggested it. Each entrepreneur shall, when establishing an enterprise or within a company, set up a department after that, monitor what is happening in that department, how much is the revenue, how much is the expenditure, whether it is in plus or not, if it is not in plus, think about what it will do with that department or company. Since such a relationship is within his company, we believe that it is fair and fair and correct to be measurable and what he gives. If he gave money to the tourist community, we think it would be fair and correct to measure what he has received from that community. Not just communities, there's a crafts chamber, there's an economic chamber and all these other organizations where money has to be given. Did no one ask them if they wouldn't, but they had to. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16900	Thank you, Mr. Pavić. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16901	I agree, however, that there is always room for improvement, and as for the control of their incomes, each tourist community has its own tourist council and tourist assembly, members of the assembly are among other things those who pay the tourist membership fee. Therefore, you have a representative INE because he has a lot of traffic so he has a large membership fee and one member must be in the tourist assembly of a particular tourist community and can control his income and therefore they are running again to the tourist board so that all reports go to those bodies where the representatives are those who are coming incomprehensible/... who pays membership, that he is a member of the congregation./... [[Intruder:...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16902	No, no, no, no dialogue, no dialogue Just, just the replicas and the reply to the replica. [[- Okay. - Okay.]] Ms Sabina Vosovac I'm sorry, Mr. Domagoj Story, I'm sorry. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16903	I wanted to relate to what my colleague said about tax cuts. The fact that in Croatia taxes are still high that apart from having these main taxes that collect tens of billions of kunas, we have hundreds of parafiscal duties which are essentially mini taxes. The problematic ones, often talked today about financially burdening companies and the economy, but it is not just a matter of finance, it is also a matter of time. So, if we're talking about hundreds of parafiscal duties, we're talking about a huge amount of time regardless of the funding that needs to be spent on getting rid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16904	The answer, the answer of the esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16905	Thank you very much, colleagues. I will agree with you that there are really a lot of parafiscal commitments and that we need to revise them and see what is necessary, but when it comes to working in tourism, tourist communities and memberships, I think we need it, and now whether there is room for rationalisation and within tourist communities and within the Croatian tourist community and ways that in some other way we may be able to finance all this operation, but that we need them in this way or someone else to say restructuring or what we are going to rename it now, and again we are going to raise funds for something new, something else just to say that we don't have any more tourist communities when we need these jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16906	The next replica is the respected representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16907	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues at the end of your presentation you pointed out the importance of education in tourism and I will fully agree with you there. The fact is that we have been given a historic opportunity to withdraw 1.9 billion kunas just to invest in managing human potentials and to ensure better quality vocational education among others in tourism and catering. One of these projects is currently in stasis. I also appealed to former Minister Pavic yesterday, and I appeal to you. Please do not let a project of regional competence centres in vocational education where as much as 5 are in tourism and catering stop just because the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education are unable to send instructions to schools in such a way as to hire external and internal teams to implement the project. The money's in the schools, they can't be reached for one piece of paper. Please, you're in power. Please don't let this go to waste. This is an important project.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16908	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16909	Thank you very much. A colleague of the Voice is inadmissible that the money stands and waits for the realization of all this time only because of one as you stated the paper. I was pleasant and surprised that in the list of sub-projects yesterday, we could see for the establishment of regional centres of competence for professional education in tourism and hospitality exactly what you are now talking about in the next three years, over 325 million and another 13 million for the excellence and attractiveness of vocational education and training in the tourism and catering sector. It is necessary for our caterers and we know that we had a major problem with the staff last year, and I believe that this will soon be bridged in order for the projects to be implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16910	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16911	Dear fellows, there I am all the time you don't have to think that I'm far away, I'd just like to tell you for a moment, you mentioned the meaning of a grandmother who plants onions in the Dalmatian mountains. Do you know what you've made 200,000 acres in Dalmatia, which is mostly part of the Dalmatian Zagora of your background Skradin, the flat wheels are unprocessed, 200,000 hectares, and this grandmother when she sells onions on the line can't irrigate it because you haven't irrigated anything, but tomorrow there will be amendments on Monday, I hope that the mayor will also keep Drniš between the rest of Sinjsko and Peter's field and everything else, that our grandmothers in the rural households and their families the young who went away for the policies they've been carrying out and because of these parafiscal duties their children have emigrated, and when they sell that grandmother knows what you're doing, the police come to bring them in, and then they're even being tried and closed. [[Intruder: Not which one rents.]] While import lobbys, pests do whatever they want. [[/Employed: Thank you very much, Your Honor.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16912	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16913	I was talking about Grandma Marie, the renter, and what you were saying, that's something else I'm already here. I'm in favour of our product being on our desk. [[Intruder: Please let's not throw from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16914	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Gary Capelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16915	Dear Vice-President, State Secretary, Assistant, I am particularly pleased today to discuss parafiscal abuse, one of the parafiscal duties, which is a tourist membership fee which I definitely think is where we all agree that whoever is sitting here is that if it's possible that today should be lifted, it would be good. And I think that this left and right side or any other option can uniquely agree on not only this parafiscal charge but also on other parafiscal commitments to give additional energy, to give additional fuel that would be said to the economy that we reduce definitely, but that's why this government has launched this project as regards tourist memberships, but also everything else where we see accurate information these days and through these discussions these two days as we're already working on removing parafiscal duties. Now that we're talking about this tourist membership fee, it's interesting to change the Law on Tourist Communities, so residence fees and membership fees, etc., for 20 years it's been on the wallpaper and nobody's been able to change. I wonder, some of us have been sitting here long before, so we haven't been able to change, and we probably thought it would be good to end it, change it, so on and so forth, but your laws never changed. I wonder why? One of you may know better than I do because you've been sitting here for a while, but we haven't changed. If we had changed earlier today, we wouldn't have talked about it. So, the turn came this government saw it as a problem and the Ministry of Tourism and it is said that just because something hasn't changed in years to try to change it. The system of tourist communities had its function and made Croatia recognizable in the world and no one can say that it is not true. Is now such a system that I see today that we are going into a system of tourist communities that needs or doesn't need it, the way it wasn't supposed to be. That's why there's been a new law that we adopted in the assembly, practically almost unanimously and we realize that we have to change, we have to change the system of tourist communities, and that they are now in the future of the organisation's destination management, at lower, higher levels, etc., that it works differently. We limit that you can't share your hands and hats with wages, so the salaries are not at the level of officials but rather less, that you can't spend on some segments, that you can't borrow more than 10% etc., so we've also given a deadline for the adjustment that's cca for about a year that directors can't be on permanent working relationship forever than to have a term of four years, etc., etc. So our desire is to improve and be quality. As for membership fees, one part of the membership funds is returned to undeveloped areas, say, 9%, one part returns 2% to the association of tourist communities to prepare the system for a reduction in the number of tourist communities. With this new law we just did that that part of the membership fee goes right into association. That's what made one good reaction. It has made a good reaction that you, for example, in the Imot region today, do not have 8 tourist communities, but you have one director and one tourist community that has been representing all of them and has been working extraordinarily for 3 years. You have in Ravni kotars a tourist community that also unites 7 of them, as far as I'm not wrong. And you have a tourist community of one single in the Gorski kotar, there were 10 of them, you have one, one director, and the other have become points or tourist information centres. So it was certainly this law and desire to reduce the number because logically there were too many. At the county level yes, and at lower levels wherever they can join together and that quality then by association they have power and present their end, in some way doing what they've been doing so far. If it hadn't been for the Croatian Tourist Board, we would still have an 85% auto guest, and only maybe 10-15% airline. Thanks to investments in the long term, a good marketing plan we've reached over 25% of aviation, better quality, stronger and more, etc. Therefore, the strategy is both marketing and all these organisations, association, cost reduction, better quality work, better representation of Croatia abroad. It's very difficult to cut overnight Especially because of the continent like I said. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We patiently and make the right adjustments in a year and so on. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16916	We have more replicas, stay, stay here, we have more replicas. He is the first respected representative of Matko Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16917	Dear Representative Cappelli, you attribute all the successes of Croatian tourism to the tourist communities, so more Croatian athletes made for the promotion of Croatia than all the tourist communities we have in common. No one here from the opposition has said that we are in favour of abolishing tourist communities, but since we are all the opposite omens in one thing we all agree it is that they cannot be financed in this way. As long as the memberships in tourist communities, craft chambers and chambers of the economy are not voluntary until then, the quality of their work will not be at the level, only what they will become, and what some of them are, will be a polygon for political trade, love and labour, and everything on the burden of that private sector that we are all fighting for and for which we all try to survive, because after you have sold out the entire social property, that's the only thing you can ride on and the only thing you can exploit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16918	Your Honor, Mr. Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16919	Representative, thank you very much for having to see who is the founder of the tourist communities. So this same private sector you're talking about is the founder of tourist communities. So if they want to start it, if they don't want to start it, and if they want it, that private sector can also end it. So not only is the mayor or mayor founded but the founders are the private sector, so it can also abolish it. So I don't see the problem that the private sector, it doesn't talk about abolishing, but I say a private sector that determines in what sense and how the tourist community of one place or county will function. In that same council of the tourism community of the county or city or municipality is the very representatives of the private sector, the tenants, hoteliers etc., so they dictate how much pay they will pay, who they will take to work and all other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16920	The next is the replica of the respected representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16921	Yes, but my colleague and I will only be able to relate to this before only the hotel and the caterers pay and the fees are paid by everyone and those who have nothing to do with tourism. But what I wanted to say was the same thing about my colleague Kuzmanić, we did not say that we are for abolition, but we need to think about the way we want to direct the work of all Croatian tourism in the future, and I am glad that you mentioned it too. It needs to be encouraged, actively working on the circulation because I think it's the only way to survive this system in the first place. Here's France is a good example for you, though, of local self-government units, but as they were working on the circulation, and they have historically conditioned a lot of small municipalities, and they said every municipality that has a common municipal drive of the state gives them half the money, for example. So in this way we can encourage not only tourism communities, but in general local self-government units to think strategically and in the longer term.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16922	Your Honor, Mr. Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16923	Thank you very much. Mr. Hajdukovic, that is precisely why we in law have provided that certain funds are given as a reward for the financial reward to all those who join in. Therefore, all those who join together receive additional funding for promotion and for the work of the group of tourist communities to be joined. So we also predicted this with the intensity of again reducing the number of tourist communities, sparring in that part and the greater results of the achievement. A little while ago, the MP said the athletes did more, they did, so here we did, but someone had to unite them in a certain way, we united, made a video piece that got the best award in the world in terms of promoting tourism together with athletes, which is what you know recently was made and praised throughout the world as one of the best promotions we can tell with athletes and celebrities in Croatian life.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16924	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16925	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, fellow Cappelli, two topics, tourist communities, tourist communities are and nothing is carved into stone and has to change and we must have a different model and we must distinguish between Adriatic and continental Croatia because it is a fact and we cannot go any further from these facts. And the other thing is what we're talking about, and that's something that's parafiscal intrusion, is it a parafiscal intrusion, right? Do we have a few models here? We do. What we need to advocate is if we really want to make some step, let's not do it then I'm the one who said "punched a piece at a time," so we were cutting back then, so now. The ministry certainly has an analysis which is some real option to go into and go with it. This time of the crown should be used and told my people we don't take it but this thing that's logical and that's what we should have gone for and that's what we stand for. Because there's going to be a change of law as well. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16926	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Cappellio.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16927	So I say I'll do it again, we run it, 20 years no one's run it. This government started it in 2016. we started a cut parafiscal imposition called membership fee and it is that a piece per coma is 15, so 5, so an additional 12 etc., the easiest thing would be to be just as happy if we could cut or cut it completely overnight, we have nothing against it, although our initiative will go in that direction in the next few years we will do so. However, in parallel, we have made a new Law on Tourist Communities, and it would be very difficult to cut and find a different way at once, but within 2.3 years they will join together, they will be less and more easily mentioned on the continent, cut the tourist membership fee, and that they can continue to carry out all the duties they have under the new law to perform.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16928	The next is a replica of the respected representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16929	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would first of all like to point out when we talk about these economic and tourism discharges, an important measure that was taken at the time when you were a minister, which actually helped travel agencies survive through that possibility of issuing vouchers and so on. The coronary of reprogramming loans and it was really necessary and necessary. I would be interested in your opinion whether you feel that now may be the time to finally achieve the connection of the blue and green field that has long been spoken of in a way that may be stimulated by tourist agencies, family hotels, restaurants, all those who will offer exclusively Croatian food so that they may be rewarded with an extra star or extra sunflower and, in that sense, help family economies to place their product, and tourists to really have That quality food on the table. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16930	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16931	I completely agree with your proposal. We made this one in a way and made a specific suggestion. I'm hoping for these next 2-3 years. and come on the wallpaper and sort of back it up because we've always spoken only declaratively, unfortunately it's always said green-blue. However, the step of the green-blue is made very small, but it is a great intensity to be made in this sense. I know some certain hotel houses on the Adriatic that have over 60% of the products offer in their hotels from Istria, so to Dubrovnik below offer in their hotels and as such mark them that tourists know that they eat exactly that our products. It is certainly good, therefore, to reward either through the Days of Croatian Tourism or similar actions that go in the direction of using domestic food, so domestic agriculture to finally move away from only the declared green-blue rather than to step in that, in that step. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16932	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16933	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary of state with the assistant. Well, here's the proposal for a membership law in TZ in the first reading caused a good debate this morning. She wanted to be focused in a way that in several clubs and MPs she wanted to undertake under discussion about the removal of TZ. However, somewhere since 10:30, the debate has also turned into a membership story, but also whether the membership fee. Whether TZ needs to survive or not, I think we're all on now that this system that wasn't invented yesterday is not a system from the government of Andrej Plenkovic, it came about a long time ago. Even in the time of that former state, there were possibilities of association in then tourism societies, and in the alliances of tourist societies because even then renters and tourist workers knew that there was a tourist tax as one element that could contribute to the visibility of destinations and then they had already joined together and created certain organizations. The formation of the Republic of Croatia, the creation of new local self-government, municipalities and cities, has also created TZ systems. The state gave that opportunity. She didn't tell anyone you had to have her. So everyone is left with the possibility of assessing whether there should be one such organization in their area. And the citizens used it or didn't use it. We have to add that there are not only TZ municipalities, cities and counties, there are TZs and places. So small places like Selce, Zaton, I don't know, coal, etc. who want to be recognizable as a destination and have created an association that can help them to do so and to be financed from the residence tax and membership fee. There are other possibilities of donations, sponsorships, and incomes that can be obtained from their local self-government. And just the missed story of a colleague from MOST, a colleague from the Sovereignist Club, from the Homeland Movement, that it's a system of arrests that needs to be broken down or destroyed is completely bizarre. Why? Because you're headed for a complete system of tourist workers and people who live on tourism. And you won't get anything, nothing. You're just going to get a little bit of disgust over what you're capable of saying, and that's not good. Why? Because this system has so far shown that it can be upgraded and every government and government has tried to upgrade it. And this law goes towards firing part of the possibility given by parafiscal impose, i.e. that the economy pays a little more i.e. less under this law now than it's ever paid before. The reasons are clear, we entered a special time of pandemic that obviously creates income problems and these economies. We know how the membership fees were calculated and there's nothing controversial about it. So if we're willing to support this law, then we're ready to help the economy. What I said in my debate now I will repeat. We've left the possibility that what we've been paying for this year, and the small tenants are paying for it is important in a way that we try to do another reading to really turn it into a permanent measure, so it's no longer a 45 kuna breaker, but maybe 20 kuna if the government thinks it's okay. Why? Because we are witnessing that these membership fees today, especially in the Adriatic part that deals with tourism, do not talk about the continent, have led to our membership revenues almost equal in this season as we did last year. So there's room to help if we think we can do it. And what I'm trying to say is, those who want to abolish must, as future candidates for mayors, mayors and these cities, the municipality that will run, I want to end it as Mrs. Oreshkovic, I want to abolish the TZ of the City of Zagreb. And the work of these people who work in this community today we will work in the City of Zagreb and all the money we get from these membership fees, and there are relations when we talk about the continent and the Adriatic part of Croatia where we have the biggest income from the residence tax, on the continent is membership and not in small relationships. The incomes of your stay tax are 1 kuna, your membership fee 100 times and 150 more compared to your income tax. Then you have to say it and people will evaluate it in those elections. And I know how they'll evaluate it. Gentlemen, you don't deserve our trust because you want to break what we've been building for decades, and that's the moment you shut down TZ that destination gets into trouble. This destination will no longer be able to promote and function normally, as simple as it may seem to you and as many people as you seem to be doing nothing. The question when you were working with them, how many of their services you used, and what you of these TZs had in the first place, other than wanting to break everything in order, to take down whatever you could because today it's so positive, populistly important, and that everyone can just accept it as something here we're helping to bring down something that's been built for decades.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16934	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Rada Simičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16935	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, you are acting as mayor and well-known tourist community, and I am glad that you have now elaborated here what membership means and how it distributes. Here I would like your comment because the thesis is that all the employees in the tourist communities are caught. I know people, I'll mention the town of Benkovac where we have great people who have reborn Benkovac and Ravna Kotara, so don't stand there and say that people are caught, and you have no arguments for that, I don't think you support it. After all, the people of Parliament are saying to us that we are the greatest in love, so no one resigned and left this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16936	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16937	Thank you very much. My colleague Simičević, here's one piece of information I'm going to tell you, so I've been running a municipality that's been a municipality since 2006, and we've had a tourist community since '97. A year. What does that mean? If people wanted the community back then, but I couldn't, but they wanted some association of people we're talking about, they're people who work in tourism, they're renters, they're employers, they're smaller craftsmen, and they're creating it. Well, it's not the wish of a mayor or mayor, so we'll have it or we won't have it, people bring it in, and they finance it, they participate through the congregations and the tourist council on the work of the tourist community. We say, we don't know what's going on there, so they're bond audits, no financial plan or execution at the end of the year if you don't have an audit report. So what we're going to suspect are the businessmen who do this and have to have a revision. If we question these tourist communities, then we also question the economy. ...an independent audit, you have to have it or it won't go through with the financial plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16938	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16939	Thank you very much. A fellow Boric here is trying to push through the the thesis that only great benefit from tourist communities, so with only promoting large systems of hotels, camps, etc., you are the head of the municipality where you have a very mixed structure of this and I would like to hear your opinion about how much more powerful the tourist community is in collaboration with large ones who have contributed in financial terms and filling these small family offers and private renters. I think it's very important to say because it's very important to understand that it's synergy, that it's really the processing of a destination as a unique tourist product. For this reason, it is very important to tell the Croatian public what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16940	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16941	Thank you very much. My colleague Kleman, that's why I put forward a proposal for a small tenant, but I've been in that space for 30 years to know what we're talking about. We used to have receptions of tourist accommodation that came from these tourist companies and they took care of all the small tenants, where they paid taxes on each account, etc., 2005 i'06. We're introducing a change in the lump sum to the accommodation unit and we're determining then as a state a few years ago we said let local self-government do it, it's all theirs and that's what we do. And the local self-government said, this destination or community will be paid so much, all your amounts are different, someone pays 150, someone 300 every estimate they want. But the state has given the frameworks and the rules of conduct, and you down there do it as it belongs and you have control, it can't do whatever it wants. And that is why we are offended by these discussions especially by the people who have been users of these tourist communities with their jobs. If he was the leader neatly took what followed him to run some manifestations... /Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16942	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16943	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you that we are never well generalized and perhaps because in a tourist community someone has done a bad job, and say that all tourist communities should be abolished, a bad director should be replaced. It also seems to me that some discussions go in the direction that small environments should have nothing. It is a communist mentality that has apparently remained present in some because small communities also deserve development, and there people deserve quality life. And my experience that I have just and with the tourist communities from smaller cities achieved very good cooperation and projects in the European Parliament where we managed to introduce Kesteniada in Croatia Costanica on the Map test of Europe where with the Mali Lošinj community I represented their truly specialities with which we can be proud everywhere in the world, where with the Tourist Board of Lekenika and Popovače I represented their manifestations Voloderje fall, Letovanovic village pore Kupa, so these people do something and what they do makes sense and actually covers an entire destination. And that's the tourism we need to turn to. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16944	Thank you. The answer to the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16945	Thank you very much, dear colleague Petyr. That's why I was talking about two levels that we have continental Croatia with its tourist communities and Adriatic Croatia islands, coast with its tourist communities. On the Adriatic, the tourist community lives from a tourist tax, it is a ratio of 10:1 to membership fee, and on the continent, your relationship is drastic, one kuna from the tourist tax 100 to 150 kuna from membership fee and therefore it is important. At that moment, as my colleague Cappelli said, we're terminating membership, and all the communities on the continent have disappeared, unless you want to pay them out of the municipal, city budget, but you have to say that. So that's not a problem at all because it's offered as a possibility and anyone can evaluate it in their midst. I watched the Council of Sunday, here is my colleague Zurovec, the income of the residence tax two or two days ago, 7800 kuna, a membership fee of 750,000 kuna. Can we compare what this law means for this tourist community? If he doesn't need him as mayor or mayor, we don't need him, you stop it, but go to the polls and you'll hear what... /Speakers are saying at the same time./... citizens who want to deal with tourism in your space.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16946	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16947	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's a colleague I'm glad that you actually would have said among the first mentioned this difference between the tourist communities on the coast and the tourist communities on the continent and explained exactly what, since I come from the continent which means for the tourist communities on the continent, especially when we talk about the distribution of these funds. So if we're talking about a membership fee of about 10%, it's for communities on the coast, and up here, I'd say, even 90%. Also, I'm glad you actually mentioned here, all morning we were actually discussing a law that is not at all the subject of this, so on the agenda, but we were actually discussing the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of tourism, but unfortunately the colleagues who talked about this topic did not even read the law where it is very clear, if the concept and organisations of tourist communities enables them to join the tourist communities, so it's clearly prescribed by that law, and even encourages the association of tourist communities, therefore, it would be good to go out here and with very dangerous statements, to read about a law that is not really the subject of this debate, but here... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16948	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16949	Thank you very much, dear fellow Habiban. So we also cited examples of what enabled the Law on the System of Tourist Communities. That some of them started joining up because they realized that it was easier for them to function and that they didn't have to have 10 directors, but you have to have something, which would be the head of an organization called a tourist community, could be the director, director, president, what should it be? So there's got to be a name. Oh, no? Now we've got the directives, from what we've heard. They're not doing anything, they're not dealing with anything, etc. Tourist infrastructure, who knows, which is a tourist trail, which is a brown signalling, which played it, on the beach, played on a public surface or anywhere else. What is now the basic task of tourist communities? They used to deal with municipal infrastructure by 2010, '12, '13. Mr. when it's cut and said, gentlemen, you can't do this with the tourist communities. You can't build I don't know what, some objects, etc., because it's none of your business. You've been doing a promotion, and it's been settled for the past few years. You've got your own rules. Go ahead and follow them. Now came a new methodology of design and plans, in which way you can make a financial plan, no more each in his own way. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16950	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16951	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Boric, you mentioned, among other things, the tourist community of the place. So when we passed a new package of tourist laws somewhere in the spring of 2019, there was also an idea that it would go to the shutting down of tourist communities and then in the debate could be heard and I cited examples from my area, we have tourist communities of Jezera, Betina, Grebastica, Krapnja, Zlarina etc., what all these people are doing there, and it is so sad to hear that the directors of the tourist communities of these offices are party arrests. These are people who work hard, promote both the natural and cultural heritage of their territory. They are organizers of different manifestations, animators, informers, they are also accountants and cleaners and it is so ugly when in this assembly you can hear criticisms at the expense of these very small tourist offices.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16952	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16953	Thank you very much, dear colleague Martinchev. We managed this debate however, I think, turn in a better direction. I think the suspension's already been resolved, that there's still Bridge and Sovereignists, some Homeland movement, let them shut it down when they're able, so they'll see what they get out of it, won't they? Because it's not just cutting through, so we've solved something, but this, uh, tourist community place, just because I said it, it's for the destination. The moment you abolish it, that destination remains, not only the place of Betina, the place of Ugljan, the place of Selce, part of some municipality or city, and people understand it well, unlike us politicians who like to come down to some places, so manifestations, it's someone made it, but we don't care. These are some earrings, non-workers, sloths, etc., because they are the only ones with their appearance here, when put on, the solution for everything. They know everything, enough to look at and see them, they, behold, have solved all of Croatia and all of the problems at this moment. It's not like that, so we have to insist on voting this out and looking for improvements and for small tenants, if that's what it is. possible future. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16954	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Zvonimir Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16955	Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who watch through the screen. Before I look back, or just to strengthen what attitude the Mosta was, I would like to thank my colleague Kleman for today's debate, I think it was very constructive, our debate and outside the assembly, we are moving here and here I would like to thank you, and in a way to build that bridge to simply get out of these demolition structures that come from individual colleagues and thank you today for the debate. As for parafiscal intrusions, I feel like we're throwing ourselves around here with terms, and we don't even know if people understand what parafiscal intrusion even means. So this is, therefore, the public income is purposely destinationed, not tax, which means that it does not include all taxpayers, but a certain group of people, so the members to whom it is given, therefore, in order to, because of certain economic and social problems. Now, if we look at the definition of the parafiscal intrusion itself, which is, for example, the Croatian Tourist Community. So membership is being introduced, therefore economically, in order to address an economic social problem, which is the promotion of Croatian tourism. The bridge is on two examples today, so I set an example in Argentina when I saw HTZ and HGK, as they promoted Croatian tourism, when I saw the Brazilians dancing in the samba or the Italians singing on the gondola, and on the other hand, the Croats just released, or representatives of HTZ who were at that, at that fair they only let a CD to let some Latin Americans watch the beauty of the country, no one explains anything, no touch, no encounter with tourists from Latin America. I was honest, and I asked my colleague Bulja because I don't know, so there are a dozen tourist communities, we are going back to the definition of parafiscal charge, so there are membership fees that certain members of society, that is, that part of Croatia are paying, to see how tourism is promoted in that part of Croatia. A colleague of Bulj says that in his neighborhood, therefore, he is not satisfied with the way the tourist community works. And what was Mosta's proposal? No destruction. We said the economic way of thinking and there even colleague Kliman agreed with me if, first of all, you put voluntary, voluntary membership fees, eyes, and on the other hand, it's rationalization, it's executive power. If TZ does not work, it is not operational, it is abolished. Furthermore, I would further expand and give, give this argument to Mr. Kleman, I, I would not only focus on Europe, I would focus on both Africa and Asia, though, that is, that is, the way to, but I see that there is no government strategy on, for example, double taxation, I see no reason why we would not sign contracts with one Angola or Egypt where we have our concessions and our oil wells. But in the same way, there's TZ. So the question is only economic accounts, so compared to the membership fees that people pay and certain returns that we get for that money. So who would pay 100 kuna for rotten plums? I'm not saying that all tourism is like that, but what I had an example of is not good and as a person coming from the real sector, let's say for those people who were in Buenos Aires, I would immediately give them the cancellations. It is such a way of thinking, so if you are already, if you are paid a daily fee, if you are paid a trip of $112,000, a ticket as far as Latin America, then you better be the best and present Croatia in the best, best light. As far as art is concerned, I personally didn't use such a term, but when I saw how certain persons from HTZ and HGK behave abroad, I would give them notices and wouldn't define them at all. So the way you were sent, you were paid, you did not promote Croatian tourism as it belongs, and that membership fee for such things should not be paid and should be voluntary. Here's a purely economic way of thinking. And then, if they don't bring voluntary memberships, then we've been thinking about the eyes if we already have the Ministry of Tourism, so maybe there are certain bodies these aren't operational in that you're not doing your job, you're quitting. It wasn't about destroying the entire system, it was about economic thinking, and it was executive power.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16956	Thank you. We have some replicas, the respected Josip Boric is the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16957	Thank you very much. I've been talking about it all morning, and here we've had this debate. So, the Ministry doesn't abolish TZ, it doesn't abolish the government, it can end those who created it, and these are employers who work and deal with hospitality or that activity, small tenants who are part of that system, so all those who think that they need an association called TZ to promote themselves and their destination. These destinations are promoted through the TZ system in such a way as to print their own catalogues that talk about destination, to have websites on which there is almost complete private accommodation that is sold as such and to say that they have nothing to pay i.e. Being on a voluntary basis, you know you won't get anything. There's nothing on a voluntary basis today. I won't. So you have to have some kind of guidance that the government gives you that you have to do something. However, as far as this is concerned, is it 20, 40 per unit or percentage of economy, etc. But you're just using it... [[Employee: Thank you, the response of the esteemed representative of Troscott]] This destination is presented by Mr. Troscott [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there's no art, there's no. [[Intruder: Dear Boric, thank you]] Those are bad words for people who do their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16958	The answer of the esteemed representative of Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16959	I didn't even use that word, but about, I don't know why you're even defending it then, defending the proposals of some of the MPs at all...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16960	Guys, please stop talking, you talk all the time, and you wouldn't like to be standing there, so someone else talks all the time, right? It's not polite. Here's your colleague, Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16961	In that sense, I can't even see why you're defending it if it's not you who's ending it? So that's question number one. Here's just an economic way of thinking, and I'm letting us differ in our opinions. So here we offer a more market-based principle of work where our position is that if it becomes a more voluntary membership it will not depend on a safe job, but you will certainly have to fight for this job. It's a real, real life, it's a real business. About membership fees, too. So to enable people to decide for themselves whether they want to pay for something like that, and if that service is good, everyone will, each will want to pay for something that is quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16962	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16963	Thank you very much. A respected colleague, therefore the subject of parafiscal duties and how to get rid of parafiscal duties is not since yesterday, is not even from this government and is not from the former government of Mr Plenkovic. Thus, the fight against parafiscal accusations and the way it has been resolved has been going on for some time. And then it happens to you next. Come on, let's talk real. So, even the resor says okay, I don't need that parafiscal intrusion, so let's get rid of it. And with us, you know, everyone's for reform, but in someone else's backyard. I would not like to have reform in my own backyard, and I would not like to be the first to be associated with these reforms. So, the subject of parafiscal burdens I'm sure will extend through both this assembly and this one, through this assembly, but all of a sudden we need to start, we need to have the strength and responsibility of the word now is enough. What it is about this parafiscal intrusion to He didn't have the strength to say it. That's enough. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16964	Dear Representative Troscott, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16965	Thank you for your esteemed MPs, your question and your comment. I would agree with you and it's something going on in line and with what I've asked the Prime Minister that why not at this point, why they didn't accept our bill in terms of abolishing the mandatory membership of HGK, HOK, and here we are talking about TZ, especially during recessions when people simply don't have money. And these measures now, it is at least our assessment, that such measures would release additional money for liquidity that would then be rerouted to consumption, and through consumption, a personality that is the main part of each GDP would again be returned through the public finances system that same money would return to the budget and in that sense I agree with you. These tax duties unless they have a function of their own in terms of paying membership I have an economic social benefit, they should not even exist at that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16966	The next replica of the respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16967	I would just like to draw attention to the fact that it is unfortunate that the facts and our words that we have said here are being restructured, that is, because we have read the law, we have mentioned that we should restructure these communities. The point is what you said, economic principles. That we know exactly who gives, why gives and who returns. Every entrepreneur wants to know that, wants to see it, wants to feel it in his pocket, and it has to be, simply put, measurable. If these are not measurable sizes, we have just heard, each tourist community has its own results, and then the congregation discusses it, yes, it is discussed, but the smallest entrepreneur needs to see it in his pocket. If he doesn't see it, he doesn't know why he's giving that money, and then it doesn't make sense, it's the money he gives, he throws it in the wind. We have to work in a way that the community raises money, not that, if it's too little money, it's given from the budget. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That's not the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16968	Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16969	Your Honor, thank you for asking. I would agree with you here and there is now a way whether it will be more of a market principle or more of a state or interventionist principle. So what is our position here is very important that for the money invested must be clear, transparent and visible as it is that the person who, or the company, in particular, in the HGK or in the case of the person in Dalmatia who pays those fees, which is what they get for that money that they pay. Is that, say, some very good project in the Dalmatian Zagora, for example, in the case of Mr. Bulja, what I have set up or is it, say, new tourists from Latin America who are not our Croats? Or, let's say, the Asians to come to us here, they were here for a while, during the recession they argued that we would abolish visas, at least for a short period of time for the Russians and Indians to improve our economy. So let them come to our Adriatic, but it must be seen, so for that paid membership, that the return is there.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16970	Thank you. Now we'll end up in the name of the clubs. First of all, the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU's respected representative, Željko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16971	Dear Vice President, every reduction, even this, although it's only 12% we'll support. Of course, with the appeal and the ministry and the rulings to try this way of funding through parafiscal burdens completely abolished and found some other way of funding through the budget. Unfortunately, today's debate on this reduction has turned into a debate on tourist communities, many colleagues here have debated, and have not read the Law on the system of tourist communities, and have then memorized directors, abolishing and all that. Simply not realizing that the directors are selected by competition, that the tender is prescribed by law, that there is a leprosy of professions that can apply to the competition and that a professional examination from tourism and a certain number of years in the branch is necessary. So, the selection of directors isn't that simple and there aren't too many people who can apply to this contest, which may not even be good. I am sorry that some people whose law is in the small finger and the reading of the law did not read it, but important to know how to criticize others, so here, I am sorry that colleagues Oreshkovic did not have to tell her here, that I was the director of the Tourist Board of Sisak-Moslavina County which has two indigenous breeds of horses, that are Croatian cold-blooded and Croatian posavac, 3 indigenous varieties of wine varieties of Škrelet, Moslavac and Diseća ranina, the largest number of pasture cattle in the breeding of cow-body systems that feed and pure Lonjsko polje. Lonjsko polje is one of the largest tourist accommodations in Sisak-Moslavina County, there are Sava, Una, Kupa and other rivers where fishing tourism exists. Accumulation in Banovo, forest, etc. hunting sites in Moslavačka gora, Banovina, Posavina, as hunting tourism, and I don't know why my colleague Oreshkovic realized so badly that agronomics is a bad interest in this job. I think he's doing very well here, and so is this other colleague of mine. Here, my colleague Bulj has confirmed that this is a good choice. Unfortunately, there are also manipulations in the system of tourist communities as well as in all other resorts. We should try to lower them to as low a level as possible. I also met in my work as State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism a lot of good directors, say one association in Baranja, TZ Baranja where 8 units of local self-government joined together many years ago, which have shown that they can together. So the fact is that the tourist communities have too many, especially those small ones, that they have to join in their interest as a matter of principle, how the LAGs join together and that in this way they will also attract more tourists and better advertise their destination together because often their tourist communities share a certain tourist resource and then instead of dismembering it, they should represent it together. Here, I would just like to tell my colleagues Hajdukovic that we from Kutina, from Popovača, are Moslavci, and a colleague from Sisak will say that he is Siscan. Here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16972	The next club is the HDZ's representative on behalf of the respected representative Anton Kliman. It's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16973	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Finally, I would like to emphasise once again the value of this bill that HDZ will support, which is to abolish part of the parafiscal intrusion. So it is really expected that this debate has turned into a debate where the main question has been asked whether the TZ system should even be in tourist promotion and destination determination existing in the Republic of Croatia. This was expected, but we should stress, therefore, the intensity of this law, which is that the parafiscal imposition has been reduced, that this is foreseen by the action plan of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is carried out, the intensity and commitment of the Republic of Croatia or the Government of the Republic of Croatia to reduce the parafiscal burden and we are doing so and there will be a day when there will be no more tourist memberships and it will not be, what is said, on a long stick, I believe that this will happen in a few years. However, once again, here is my colleague, Lenart, if you no longer have the ambition to be a tourist or parliamentary representative, you've promoted your destination, your destination, I really congratulate you, so this can definitely be your second job, you're qualified for it both through the tourism ministry and through the tourism ministry that you've been doing. But I also believe that, and your colleagues who work in this TZ in your area know how to promote this area as well, and I'm sure that potential guests will recognize it on the tourist market. You have to say and you need to be serious. We, in tourist terms, play a very serious game in world terms, so to speak. Our competition is incredibly strong, it's all in a row of big, big countries that have incredibly great potentials, they're much more economically developed than we are, and we have to have a special relationship with our, therefore, tourist product because we depend heavily on it until we develop other economic branches that will certainly reduce the impact of Croatian tourism on the overall economy. That's where we have to be committed. The TZ system is doing a good job where there's good control. Controlling does not work either Andrej Plenkovic, nor counterpart Nikolina Brnjak but works by people and, therefore, interested and companies that make up the TZ Assembly. We're doing a frame. Through this framework will further reduce this parafiscal load, we have said and that is today, today this visional display, and all what you think should be done in your destinations, in your destination management you need to talk to the directors and the congregations. You have this space. I am sure you will find the best way to express how to promote your tourist destination, and she further, she further promotes herself through the HTZ system in the markets. In markets where we all see what is good, everything we can boast and all we know that can compete on the market we represent to our potential guests who through the TZ system, through the system of large tourist houses we bring to us and also according to this we fill both private and private renters. You have a very, very good, very, very good example in the Imot region. It has already started to be the destination of this luxury holiday house. Great story, great story. That's what we need to keep going and work on. And they recognized it as their one tourist brand, and that's what TZ does, they don't even do the mayor of Imotsky, and I don't know who everyone, all the places that are there, who are there. So we need the TZ system. He's safe, he's got a good framework to change for the better, and we all have to work together on that. The burden system of Croatian businessmen is also burdened by why we are working, which is why we are doing this, this discharge. So, I think our intentions are great. I would simply put it in context of this debate of a good, good feeling that we want a better system because we are aware that we have what to offer and we are aware that we can compete very well on the tourist market and therefore appeal to all the representatives to, to question the thought of whether TZ should be discontinued. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much again. The HDZ Club will support... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16974	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Bulj will speak finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16975	TZ, when I speak on behalf of the club, of course, we will not support this parafiscal imposition because I want to, I will start from my Sinj, not only on the day of Sinj Alka, all the ministers, politicians, and we have something to show in Sinj, from horse sports, from tradition, culture, religious content, Lady Wondery Sinj, but only then do we have very few tourists, and we have the largest sanctuary. I want the blue field modelled and the OPGs sold and irrigated and the OPGs sold their products at the time. But not just at the time of the 10th day of the 8th month when the Great Lady and Sinjska Alka. That's the problem, and we've got something to show for it. Just a fortress in Sinj, Old Town where the battle was fought, where there was an apparition, where the Wonder Lady of Sinj is celebrated, that's the whole story we have 300 years old, '715, now 305, 306. We all have a story to show. We have Peru Lake, we have the river Cetina, we have the Sinjsko polje, we have villages that are abandoned, which could be a tourist attraction about renting houses and everything. Yeah, steps are moving, but that's what people do themselves through various agencies that have nothing to do with TZ. And trust me that there are organizations organized, civil society, I'm... from Sinj who promotes Sinj much more, the Cetinski end than many other TZs. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would like to see the city of Knin, the city of victory, the royal city not only wake up on the 5.8th day of Storm's victory because I worked 13 years, only then to be in Knin. Is there anything to show in the Kninski region to preserve our Krka, not that we have a national park that will be named director who has a party card of HDZ and HNS, but to name one who was better, and that is Lija Zmijanović Ljiljana, who then had better qualifications and defence status, could not pass, controlled the politics of our pearl, the Krka National Park. So Drnisu is not enough to come to the Drenish prosciutto, Drnis is an empty town yesterday, you may not see it in the coast, but it is an empty city and houses, as far as the house is concerned, that there is no mayor turning, empty town, I am often in Drnis. And people call me from Drnis because everything that happens, every job is controlled by the president of the HDZ everyone, the county and you know it well. There are renters who do quality work in the area, but it should be tenfold, show all the natural values we have in Dalmatia Zagora, from Krka to Neretva, and in Skradin, as well as in this one in Ravni kotars. This is our potential, behind the Gorski Kotar, Lika, these are our potentials, the National Nature Park Plitvice Lakes, the open sewer system, for the images we sell Egyptian potatoes imported, and our OPGs and cooperatives can't sell face potatoes. That's the problem, the import lobby, the EUR 3 billion we produce products, we never give incentives again, and we just imposed parafiscal burdens. I want it to be mine, our Croatia, mine, yours, ours. To be a tourist attraction, to be a model field. I just said in Dalmatia 200,000 acres of unprocessed agricultural land. You'll get a chance to feed those 200,000 acres of land, it could feed 11 million people, what we've got, empty. And then we have the county, the tourist community, then we have the city, believing there are people who want good, but the results are bad. You know what the key result is, the key result is what's empty, that area, there's no people, it's not a country just, just a country and a surface, people are a state, empty villages that could be a tourist attraction. From.../incomprehensible to me to the many other villages we have, ores that are beautiful villages. At the source of Cetina, the only thing that has been made has come to the boggers, and there is just.../incomprehensible/... to both here and HDZ in power, baggers and tore down the old Croatian flat bridge at the old church of this St. Spas. It is a tourist attraction to build Croatia. That's why I want Croatia to be a tourist attraction full of agriculturals domestic products. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16976	Since we're working from 9:30, we're gonna take a break from the winding up, and we're gonna meet again at 13 and 20. It's 13,08 o'clock. CONTINUED AFTER THE MEETING At 1322 hours of our colleague and colleague, here is our break, and I will ask on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club finally to speak to the esteemed representative Domagoj Hajduković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16978	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A few closing words in front of our club. As we have pointed out, of course, that any reduction in parafiscal obligations and imposition is good, and in that spirit we will support this law. But what I've talked about before in my individual debate I think it's important to do some parts and do it again, and this is that this was an opportunity to discuss it and to think about how to change our branding system of tourism, the promotion of tourism and the systems of tourist communities. For example, what's said I think that's what my colleague Kleman was saying about terms for the directors of the tourist communities just doesn't stand. The conditions for becoming directors of tourist communities have been drastically reduced even so much that there is no need or experience in tourism anymore. Here's so much about the expertise of the tourist communities and who's running them. Of course, not speaking about it and not entering into the fact that there are certainly qualified and turning people in some tourist communities. The association of tourist communities should be joined on a studio basis and not on the principle of informal voluntary association, but should even be encouraged so as not to use a rougher word to encourage them to really join in, not only informally, to be gathered together by the idea of promotion of their end or a wider end, but to actually actively join in, to serve more effectively the area in which they operate. Also, membership fees when talking about memberships in tourist communities should generally be limited to at least those sectors of the economy that have direct contact with tourism and benefits from the same. So caterers and accommodation facilities, recreational-tourism facilities, etc., so those who directly use this tourist service at the end of the day. So also when we talk about uniting tourist communities is minimal to me which is justified by the county level. If we talk about some micro-region in the county I will repeat to you the example of the municipality of Draž in Baranja what a small municipality of Draž can do in global proportions under a Osijek-Baranja County little to nothing, but not to speak in the territory of the Republic of Croatia absolutely nothing, and in the global field of zero, it is even minus. Thus, the resources that exist, the resources that the municipality definitely wants to allocate to promoting its tourism, should be channeled and channeled in more efficient ways in order to ultimately ensure that the service they wanted, that promotion they wanted actually achieved. Here is just an example for you, therefore, of the Director of the Tourist Community of the Municipality of Draž Sea, there is a lot of paperwork, so it must have its bookkeeping, it must have its employees, it must go to council meetings, it must defend its reports, it must write a report etc., etc. Would it not be simpler if one of the directors of the tourism community in this case were county, and if someone who may be employed in tourism in that municipality could devote themselves to other things, which is to network accommodation facilities, design campaigns, thinking about how a certain municipality or a certain area is to brand, etc.? So, if we talk about such association, for example, Osijek-Baranja County even tourist communities of cities that are not the center of the county can discuss whether they make sense or would be more desirable to join with those places or those cities that are closer to them with which they have a real connection and where together they can actually perform and promote their product more effectively. Let's say Donji Miholjac, Valpovo, Belisce and even Našice may in some sense be connected by old castles located on all three sites, therefore, in Valpovo, both in Nasice and Miholjc. And in the end that and with that I will also end up so parallel systems are not desirable, as we have in Osijek-Baranja County system where you have a large administrative department for continental tourism, you have a tourist community, you have part-cular tourist communities of municipalities and cities. So we need all the resources we have not to waste and not to destroy, but to concentrate them, and then to act with thought and strategy in order to achieve the best possible end product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16979	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, Sandra Herman, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16980	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored colleagues and fellow MPs once more... Now? [[speaker not enabled, not understood]] Now you're hearing it. Thank you very much. To those of the most durable special greetings. I think there's a lot of things being said here today, and we've really analyzed two laws. In the end, the truth is they're connected. Yes, and the Law on the System of Tourist Communities, of course, has something to do with the overall action. But we were based today, and we wanted to base ourselves here on our proposal for membership laws in tourist communities. I think we can all agree on the fact and the suggestion that we're all for parafiscal redundancies. And these 12% will be a lot, some might think it's small. However, as I mentioned from 2015 to today, a total of 32% of the disbursement on the payment of tourist memberships, and here is what fellow parliamentary representatives have said and before it is going towards being abolished at one point by the tourist community. Why wouldn't it be a good idea to cut them out suddenly? That's what I said, so my line may have been misread as destroying some of the tourist communities. It wasn't a confession that they didn't need them, so they need to be destroyed. These are smaller tourist communities, mostly less tourist communities in the continental part of Croatia, which are increasingly important to us and increasingly important to the development of tourism, which we have seen in particular at this time of the pandemic of the coronary virus when searching for accommodation in rural areas, when looking for an outdoor stay, when looking for a vacation in the open, when looking for healthy food. It is necessary to leave time and space which enables and the law that is also visible in this package of tourist laws and also came into force 1.1.2020, which is precisely the Law on the system of tourist communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism, it also allows all of these associations that the respected parliamentary representatives spoke about and did not actually abolish because it does not sound very nice but rationalising the systems of tourist communities, so that they are rational, and that they can meet their purpose, and we know that their purpose is to create a tourist product at a specific destination and promotion of that destination. And I think it takes another time for these laws to do so, and in the meantime, by voting the amendments and additions to the Tourism Membership Act, we will help the economy in part again. I just have to look back on a few facts, we've talked a lot about the directors of the tourist communities. I don't like to listen to some findings, and I have to point out that the new law prescribes both the VSS and the year of work experience and the expert exam, so these are people who have to meet these conditions, these are people who are employees, they're not officials. That's why I was surprised by Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic's findings that I made the lie because no property card was published by any of the directors. The director is not a state official, and what I have said and what has been publicly published are programmes of work with financial programmes of all tourist communities as well as reports on the implementation of these work programmes and financial plans from which it is clear how much is allocated for administrative costs of pay, office work and everything that has been asked today. There was a lot of discussion about the number of 313 tourist communities, yet I would just like to say that we should not generalise them, but I was talking about their rationalization. Here I will give an example, we have talked a lot about the continent and about the importance of promoting the development of tourism in the continental part of Croatia and many times and colleagues come from marine destinations and those who come from the mainland have found a very large difference in the functioning of the tourism community systems, not to mention revenues. And as far as tourist membership is concerned, one very small percentage of those marine destinations on the continent is up to 80%, but all these amendments and additions to the laws that we make we must enable the tourist communities to make their original income, which is now tax and membership fee, not the only means of financial support for their work. So let's base ourselves on making as much of the original income as possible from the residence fees, which means they're doing well, promoting the destination, making the nights come. They also need to be provided with other financial mechanisms to achieve specific projects, certain profits. First of all, here I think of projects financed from EU funds because the tourism community has a lot of problems, especially those with smaller incomes, with lower original incomes in that ratio of its own share in co-financing of the European project, because they cannot be in debt, you heard up to 10%. The law does not allow units of local or regional self-government to be guarantees in borrowing, and the HBOR does not recognise them, so it is also necessary to enable them to participate in the fund in regional development to co-finance their component in eu funds. In this way, the tourist community will also be able to make revenues through European projects, which I think is one of the facilities. I will tell you on the example of the tourist community from which I come about the continent, so from Međimurje County as I mentioned where I led the tourist community and as a member of the headship and two terms as deputy mayor. We are one of the most successful continental tourist communities in all indicators, and even on prizes that have no director, I must say. Our regional tourist community doesn't have a director, it's never had one before, but we have a well-placed team. We will now hire a director because this also requires a new law and system of six tourist communities of the locals only one has an employed director, that is the TZ of St. Martin Municipality which achieves 70% of the total tourist traffic in the county. But I have to say that they work well and that people work hard and work in that system and give results. What I really wanted to say again is about these proposals and amendments to the addition of the Law on Tourist Memberships and the way in which in time we agree that membership is reduced or that it is going towards abolition, and that it does not go to the burden of tourist communities, especially those continental ones. The example again is the tourist community from which I come, we have somewhere on the annual income level from the tourist membership fee of about 180,000 kuna, so much for income from the tourist tax, and I have to tell you that we have a total budget and up to four million kuna, it is precisely thanks to the engagement in the projects and the proactiveity of the people involved in this business. Such conditions and such incentives must be given to other TZs, therefore this association is good, here in the area of Osijek-Baranja County are also launched a whole series of processes about association mainly projected so there are indications and formal associations, it is the same on the example of Gorski Kotar, here on Wednesday is the official signing of this agreement. So there are possibilities for this entire system to be rationalized as you suggested but we need to give space and time in accordance with the laws adopted. And here's what I think about the amendment and the addition of the Tourism Membership Act, I think it'll be good for everything to accept in this form that we've proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16981	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We are now going to the next point, which is: - The final proposal of the Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain questions from the part of the Croatian Parliament, second reading, P.Z. Number 10. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Adjudication After that, when we're done, slowly, slowly I gave you my word, I didn't. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] When we're done, of course, this one, when the debate is over, according to the Rules of Procedure. This, when discussing this item of the agenda, shall apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Apparently, the Honorable State Secretary at the Department of Justice and Administration, Sanjin Rukavina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16984	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs, I would like to welcome you all together on my own behalf, and on behalf of the Ministry of Justice and Administration. In front of you is the Final Proposal of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section. This appropriation is intended The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed that the Croatian Parliament may, for a period of no more than one year, authorise the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in its work, except those relating to the development of the Constitution of established human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, structure, detour and way of working of state authorities and local self-government, so that the regulations cannot act backwards on the basis of legal authority and cease to apply within one year of the given authority. Delegated powers are further materially limited to current economic policy issues in current legislative practice, and time-limited to a period during which the Croatian Parliament does not regularly meet. It is therefore proposed to authorise the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate the issues of current economic policy from the Croatian Parliament's section, with the exception of changes to the national budget and tax regulation and those issues which, under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, can only be regulated by the Croatian Parliament during the period from 15 December 2020 to 15 January 2021 and from 15 July 2021 to 15 September 2021. Furthermore, it is proposed to authorise the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate individual issues from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament, except for the adoption or modification of the state budget and tax regulation and those issues which only the Croatian Parliament can regulate under the Constitution. The proposal for a law lays down that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will submit, at each session of the Croatian Parliament, a report on the regulations it has adopted between the two meetings of the Croatian Parliament or at the first meeting of the newly elected Croatian Parliament, a report on the regulations it has adopted since the date of its last report. Since the power delegated by the current Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain questions in the part of the Croatian Parliament, the National No. 118/19 ceases to be a constitutional term of one year from the date of its entry into force and on 10 December 2020, this law also proposes to further authorise the Government to regulate certain issues in the Croatian Parliament's section by respecting applicable constitutional restrictions and current legislative practice. It is also proposed that, on the basis of the legal authority applicable on the date of entry into force of this law, the regulations remain in force and for a maximum period of 30 November 2021. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16985	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Bull. Just stay. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16986	Thank you very much. Personally, I will never support the delegation of the powers of the Croatian Parliament, the legal authority to pass on and to rule ourselves and that the Government of Andrej Plenkovic lays down regulations with the power of the law. We do not have the right to give this legitimacy to anyone, because we are MPs regardless of the breaks prescribed by the laws, the constitutions, parliamentarians are the only ones who are authorized to debate and adopt and amend laws. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, with everything the government has done we cannot allow, I call on you to rule us out. They do not have the right to disenfranchise the Croatian Parliament, so in most of you who are here, you do not have the right but you do not have the right if the people chose us to rule over the Croatian Parliament and that the government is doing what they want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16987	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take a word for it, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16988	Well, here I am going to address the distinguished parliamentary representative, Mr. Bulj, and I have stated here that this applies only when the Croatian Parliament is regularly not sitting because otherwise it would be precisely to the division of power that is certainly not the interest of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16989	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, then I open the debate and first, you can sit down, secretary of state. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the first representative will speak for Vesna Nadj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16990	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues before us is the final proposal of the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section. This appropriation is intended The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed that the Croatian Parliament may, for a period of no more than one year, authorise the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from its part-line, except those relating to the development of the constitution of established human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, structure, detour and way of working of state bodies and local self-government. Regulations under the legal authority shall not act backwards. Regulations adopted under the legal authority shall cease to apply within a period of one year from the date on which the power is conferred unless the Croatian Parliament decides otherwise. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 88 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia may be authorised by the Council of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain areas of regulation which are within the regular regulatory jurisdiction of the Assembly with its legal powers. When it receives such power, it shall, in normal legal practice, be decided by the adoption of the Government's Law on Power for a year and shall be limited as set out in Article 88. The Constitution and the specific conditions of the delegation prescribed by the Assembly. The Constitution prohibits the delegation of regulation by the Constitution of established freedoms and rights of human and citizen, national rights, electoral system, organisation and the work of state bodies and local self-government because they are so-called. Legislative reserves. As stated by the Constitutional Court in its decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 25 February 94 of the Regulation, which is called for in Article 88. The constitution at the point of view of this court has no doubt a legal force. These regulations allow the legislator to delegate his powers to the government, and then the Government, instead of the legislator, addresses certain issues entrusted to it by the legislator. However, such regulations have three legal limits which must be taken into account and which oblige all the authorities of the State, including the Constitutional Court itself. The power to adopt a regulation on the basis of a legislative delegation for a delegate is significantly marked by temporal or time and material constraints. The material limitations of delegated legislation in parallel practice are reflected in two degrees. The first stage represents the definition of an object which cannot be the subject of a delegation i.e. the establishment of legislative and parliamentary reserves. The second stage includes determining the mode of delegation of power i.e. establishing the scope and method of application of the delegated power. In addition to the matter regulated by organic laws, all matter for which the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia provides for the adoption of constitutional laws also belongs to the legislative or parliamentary reserve of amendments to the Constitution, closer to the regulation of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and the like. The same with the legislative delegation itself, the Government cannot be authorised to sub-delegation or auto-delegation. The Constitution does not explicitly mention any further restrictions on certain issues as well as the specific need for precise determination of the delegated material. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia interpreted the content of this part of the constitutional provision at the beginning of 92. The Constitution did not restrict the Parliament on the number of issues for which the regulation may be authorised by the Government and explained that the Parliament, in relation to issues under its jurisdiction not covered by the legal reserve referred to in Article 88, freely decides whether it will authorise the Government to regulate more or less of these issues. In the last 10 years, the Institute of Delegated Law in the Republic of Croatia has been applied exclusively at a time when the Assembly does not act which also explains the absence of specific mechanisms for parliamentary oversight. The Assembly shall be informed of the regulations adopted. But there is no possibility of participating in their adoption. The fact is, however, that the delegating laws in our country never predicted any form of previous parliamentary supervision. The Croatian Parliament, by delegation of the legislative authority to the Government of the Republic of Croatia or to the Executive Authority, shall not be deprived of its right and of the obligation to supervise the exercise of delegated power. Since the 93rd annual delegated laws, the Republic of Croatia has required the Government to submit a report on the regulations adopted between the two sessions at each meeting of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 3 of this final proposal, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit, at each session of the Croatian Parliament, a report on the regulations adopted pursuant to the legal authority referred to in Article 1 of this Act between the two meetings of the Croatian Parliament and to the first session of the newly elected Croatian Parliament, a report on the regulations adopted from the date of the last report. The power delegated by the law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the Croatian Parliament's section of the National Journal 118/19. ceases within a constitutional period of one year from the date of entry into force of this Act and 10 December 2020 respectively. Therefore, with regard to all the above mentioned SDP Clubs, they will support the adoption of this Act authorising the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate the issues of the current economic policy in the part-line of the Croatian Parliament, with the exception of the amendment of the State budget and the regulation of taxes and other issues which only the Croatian Parliament can regulate under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16991	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the Bridge of Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16992	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. To sum it up. I must say, at first, that in this bill, everything is cynical. It is cynical for the government to ask the Parliament to give her permission, a parliament in which she has a disciplined and interestingly bound majority. So the government asks itself if he can rule. The only difference is whether this rule will take place with more noise, noise from the opposition or its absence at government meetings. The outcome is of course the same. Secondly, because the outcome of the same vote is just a farce. This is no longer a question of theory, but, unfortunately, it is embarrassingly confirmed and in practice. All of this is on the trail of what has been clearly seen recently, and what is worth reminding again. When we first had a confusion over the electronic vote and President Jandrokovic claimed dead-cold that we could either counter-constitutionally vote without those who are currently disabled or in a milder totalitarian variant let's get them to agree not to vote. The message was clear and unequivocal. We all know that voting is a performance, and the council is already the machine of the ruling majority, so what if we're wasting our time, that Friday afternoon is for God's sake, we're not going to play democratic processes. All this is a continuation of earlier policy, a policy in which the MOST was expelled from the HDZ government I will visit because it voted differently on Minister Maric's trust. And there's a fact that the Prime Minister is not ashamed to keep repeating himself without knowing that it admits a scandalous thing, which is that voting in the government is a performance of armpit radiation because in case you think of voting on what Dad expects you to do, you're flying out. Furthermore, Croatia is supposed to be a parliamentary democracy. So this is the right moment to remind the government's relations to the parliament, or all of the democratic moves of the ruling and the way the parliament is treated, so what they think of the parliamentaryism of this democracy. The first thing I'm going to point out is an imposed pause to disable the work and silence the voice of the assembly at a crisis moment. It's a break that preceded this session. The second is the detachment of the assembly and totalitarian shifts in decision-making at the time of the pandemic. Here I would point out some kind of self-recognition of the guilt of the ruling majority that we see in the fact that the amendments to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases have decided that the decisions of the headquarters are also valid and retroactive. However, the headquarters in some way was without a decision because if the Constitutional Court had declared its action unconstitutional because of the lawsuits that had been brought, the state would simply be bankrupt. So we can say that in some ways all of us, including the Constitutional Court, are the victims of the confusion that created power with the hasty decisions that put the state at risk. Furthermore, it is also important to remember how the government throws doughnuts in the eyes of citizens. It's a game that we look at more and more often in which friends from the ruling coalition make up to God's historical gestures of reconciliation as if they've just come out of opposing trenches, not from the same table in the government that they're building our fate together, and we see, of course, from the same famous clubs that would be ridiculous if they didn't caricate and pollute a serious and necessary process of healing war traumas. But he will need some new people, people of memory, truth, and forgiveness, people worthy of the heritage of Vukovar, which we now see in the ruling majority. Then JANAF, the investigative committee, did we really, did we really think that the government would allow us to have a serious parliamentary investigative commission, because as far as we could, I'm going to be cynically wondering if we would be able to establish an investigative committee for each affair. Moreover, if we really did all the research the HDZ would obviously be presumed to be left without parliamentary representatives because as we could see their replacements are as problematic as their predecessors under investigation. Then there is the famous Rules of Procedure, which tried to limit the work of parliamentary MPs under the exception of the pandemic and who fell fortunately, but unfortunately fell with it and solidarity of the opposition because one part remembered that this was a good opportunity for self-promotion and to report on the proper relationship with the pandemic, and it did not appear uniquely but also unnecessarily on the wrong subject with the non-existent argument brought about ideological lines. And finally amend as such. The amendments are an opportunity for opposition to unfortunately play law-writing only so that the government can demonstrate its power. Especially again, it is a cynical example of this when the Government rejected amendments of experts in the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb and the Environment, and then in that same law, which it itself prescribed, the necessity of their inclusion in the advice which is one of the bodies that should be managed by this same process of renewal. These are just some of the examples that are present more recently than in the autumn session of the assembly and that really show the real attitude of the government towards this most important body in the Republic of Croatia. Political engagement began with the words of democracy in Croatia, and I wanted to point out the problem of non-transparent human freedom doping by the ruling oligarchy under the exception of concern for the health of citizens. In this sense, this pandemic reminded us of how fragile democracy is and how easily, despite all historical lessons, it can slip back into totalitarianism. We could see signs of the abuse of health threats already at that time by calling elections in the middle of the pandemic, and then even the prime minister admitted that the headquarters was political rather than an independent body. In view of the recent events in the first place, the existential threat of our citizens, the increase of domestic violence, the inability of the exhaust valve, the prime minister's prejudge of the results of the investigation and the characterisation of the recent attack as terrorism, the avoidance of the call of the Security Council meetings, the announcement of measures against radicalisation of society, and, in particular, the calling of political insinuators as those who potentiate and justify terrorism, the fight against hate speech that increasingly turns into hate speech, we see that the concern for democracy is justified. In this regard, before another preparatory step relating to the prime minister's talks with parliamentary deputies when they are asking questions for what the people have authorized, it is necessary to remind that populism, precisely populism, is the essence of democracy because democracy is acceptable to the people and to the people and understandable dialogue. Bringing political opponents to worthless populists instead of trying to think about the reasons for their success, is a demagogy aimed at preserving the privileges of the ruling without facing what generated such resistances. Popularism, like hitting low passions, strengthens them to what is often unjustly reduced, is the result of the lack of the will of the political elite to deal with citizens' problems. It is a proof of their failure that justifiable electoral rage and execution are easy to use but also abuse. So democracy is not damaged by populistism but by unauthentically democratic representational action. In this regard, in terms of government and parliament, it is worth mentioning that the solution to empower democracy is not the ideologies of society because it is not possible, but the development of social tolerance that will divide us from that side into our own and yours teach us to accept diversity, conflict as a prerequisite for democracy. This means that we should stop dehumanizing non-imaginatives, disfellowshipping them from public dialogue and proclaiming their world horizons to medieval Atavims. The death of democracy is the exclusion of the need for another and different. A new mancrosty aimed at embodying both left and right, liberal and conservative, capitalists and socialists, and creating an environment in which the entire electoral process and any social dynamics become superfluous. When we talk about democracy and lack of democratic processes in Croatia, but more and more often in our environment and Europe, even the world if we follow what is currently happening in America. Finally, I would like to remind myself that there is no need to look for other models, models that are not democratic, which are often called in at the wrong time, but rather to fight for true democracy. Democracy remains the least bad political arrangement, and its shift towards autocracy or totalitarianism is the answer to its practical failures. If it comes to him, and we are in times of crisis and the past has already shown us that it can happen, it does not mean that we should seriously ask ourselves about her being but rather think about where we failed in practice. When we talk about the relationship between the parliament and the government, I hope that we will have the opportunity to do so without the touching messages from the ruling and in the possibility of full dialogue without choking the vote of the parliament as has been the case so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16993	Thank you, Your Honor. You're the one who got confused. You thought you were taking a stand on behalf of the counsel club. This is a point on very clearly defined regulations that regulate certain issues from the operation of HS, and you didn't really talk about it, but well. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure of Honored Representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16994	Thank you very much. He's been injured. 238. The Rules of Procedure which prescribe that during the hearing, a representative may not speak about a subject which is not subject to discussion during the hearing. This wasn't a topic of discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16995	It's me, I'm in that sense, and I've told a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16996	I'm sorry, I've studied very well, and I'll have a free...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16997	I didn't give you my word, you're getting a warning, please sit down. The next Club of Representatives is one of those Croatian sovereigns, they should speak to the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic, I don't see him, he loses his right to speak, so the next one will speak with a respected representative on behalf of... Of course, you can invite someone off the road to come instead of telling you, right? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] This next one is the Green-left bloc's Green-left Club of Representatives in the name of which the respected representative Sandra Bencic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16998	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I will talk today, therefore, about this regulation and in general about the issue and problems of the delegation's delegation of power to the government. So we know that this regulation regulates the issue of a delegation of our powers at the time when the assembly is not sitting or when it is dissolved or when its term of office has expired. In this regard, the proposal lays down exactly the deadlines when the government can regulate certain issues, which are issues that are being settled, which are not regulated and that part is fine, such a law is passed every year and actually allows the government to react and to regulate certain issues at times when the assembly is not sitting and in itself is not a problem, this kind of delegation. But I will use this debate on delegation issues to talk about specific delegations of power of parliament to a government that is neither legal nor constitutional in us, and that is the one that happens when the assembly is sitting and when the assembly can discuss when it is not at the station and when it is not disbanded. In particular, this is happening in parallel throughout our mandate because the majority in this House claim that the Assembly has waived the power to approve the measures taken by the Staff of the Law to protect against spreading from infectious diseases. We disagree deeply with this because the law sets out the security measures that can be taken in the event of an epidemic or pandemic, which are specifically taxing, in order for the 9th final measure to read "other necessary measures". So it leaves room for the government or the headquarters to define some other measures that are not defined here, which would be necessary to contain the pandemic. However, if you have been following the debate in the German Bundestag in the last week, on their issues exactly the same as the delegation of powers from the Bundestag to the government and on the issue of the management and management of the coronary crisis, then you could see that their constitutional court did not agree to a broad interpretation of the provision "all unnecessary measures that would correspond to our other necessary measures" but considered it excessive arbitration and excessive, in fact by taking advantage of the question of Parliament's delegation to the government. What we want to stress here is that arbitration in the adoption of measures limiting citizens' rights has become a feature of this crisis management model. No proportionality test, no additional measures are required under the law. I wonder how in this House we feel we don't have to, and Bundestag thinks he has to? What have they produced from this debate as an applicable solution, a solution that would be applicable to Croatia as well? They therefore now had to count in detail the measures available to the Government because they said that this general provision and other necessary measures are not sufficient, that any measure must be in law, and that the Government can use the measure, however, in order to benefit from the measure, the Government must apply a proportionality test to prove that it is necessary and in which it proves that this measure will achieve the objective. On this basis, their government must write a referendum or report to Parliament on which Parliament discusses every three weeks, and if it is not convinced of the necessity of the measure and the achievement of the legitimate objective then their Parliament can call off the measure. I wonder how we feel that we don't have to, that we've given up the full control of the government in the management of one of the biggest crises that has hit us since the war and the floods? How is it that we simply transferred our powers and gave up all political responsibilities to citizens for the way this crisis is managed? So as we did not say, so, look at some of these measures as a restriction on the constitutional rights of citizens, this should be decided by the Assembly by a two-thirds majority or, at least, should be able to recall those measures when it finds that these measures are not proportionate to the Article. 16. The Constitution. So what has yet to happen except that this body has given up political responsibility here has not given up Prime Minister Plenkovic and has left everything so-called. I don't really know who it is that's ultimately politically responsible for the implementation or not implementing certain measures. The council didn't, he delegated his powers. Is it the government? We don't know that. We don't know if the government can recall the headquarters measure. This is my question that I have specifically referred to and some of the members of the government and some of the members of this parliamentary majority have not been answered because we do not actually have an answer. Therefore, the headquarters is because of this situation where we do not have a separate profession of epidemiological profession within it, from those who make political decisions in the position that it is actually valued politically, and that the policy that blackmails it does not bear responsibility. And then what situation do we have? We have a situation that for a month no measures have been taken that have been known to be passed, the waist knew they had to be brought. We have the appeal of doctors, the appeals of scientists forced to write letters to the government that they must be added together and that they must begin to implement measures that will enable or restore the possibility of how we manage the pandemic to which Prime Minister Plenkovic squanders that they have everything under control, and we are today in a situation of dear people that we can't even test all those who should be tested. We've been in a situation for two weeks so we can't trace the contacts, and frankly all the epidemiologists say, doctors of general practice say we can't trace the contacts, so we can't manage this crisis. However, these measures are not adopted because it is not politically opportunised at the time, but those who have concluded that it is not a political opportunity are not politically responsible for this because they legally have no authority to make that decision and it is the headquarters. And then when we finally get some of the measures that we're re-scheduled by that headquarters that we didn't delegate to today, then we get measures that read like this, it's forbidden, for example. The sale of alcohol from 10 to 6 a.m. on the night that we're supposed to discuss here is really a measure that has any effect on achieving the goal or, for example, we have a situation to ban private gatherings for more than 10 people. So I ask you dear colleagues and colleagues, do you think at a time when we prohibit citizens from finding more than 10 people in their private home and that maybe someone in this matter will be able to control them, that maybe someone in this matter will be able to prescribe penalties so that they can get into their private space where otherwise they can't go in without a warrant, or the police, or anyone else, so did they think it might be something that we should discuss here and that maybe it's something the Assembly should bring in two-thirds because it's a violation of the privacy of home as one of the constitutional categories. It's not the public gathering rights. It's the privacy of the home. So, I'm wondering if if you find 11 people in an apartment, you'll be able to get rid of them? Who's gonna drive them away? Based on what? What punishment will someone pay? Will he go to jail for it or will he pay the fine? Did we also, when we really delegated these kinds of powers? I repeat, such a measure does not stand in the Law to prevent the spread of infectious diseases, it is not there. And here we decided to raise our hands and give up political responsibility and any other headquarters that can't actually be held accountable. I call on you once again to take back the powers that belong to this House, to take that political responsibility and start controlling what the Government is doing because there are things that cannot be delegated to the Government, which are these issues, these are issues that fall under constitutional categories of protection of human rights and freedom, and these are things and procedures described in Article. 17. The Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u16999	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. No, we don't. We do, don't we? We don't. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17000	Thank you very much. He's been injured. 238, because the lady was completely off topic and she played the main state epidemiologist here, no, and she caused a number of measures that I don't agree with at all, I just think she was completely out of the subject of regulations that the government can make when the Parliament doesn't sit. We simply passed a law that dealt with it in the previous term, and this government is acting by law and doing its job by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17001	Okay. In part, I have to admit that you're right, no matter what I absolutely disagree with her speaking to a respected representative. She's still partly stuck to the subject. So I won't give her a warning. ... But I'll... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What's wrong with you? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Do you know where you are? Are you aware that you are in the Croatian Assembly? ... Did I give you my word? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I give you the notice of Article 239. What's on your mind?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17002	... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17003	On the basis of Article 240(1), I would like to remind you by taking away the words. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ivan Celjak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17004	The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished fellow MPs and fellow MPs, the Honorable State Secretary. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the Final Proposal of the Law on the Authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament. In view of the debate so far, please allow me to remind you of some of the facts presented by State Secretary, also mentioned by colleague Nadj. The period of validity of this Law is one year. Last year, the Croatian Parliament passed a Law that regulates the same matter, and the law is valid until 10.12.2020. The Croatian Parliament delegates powers to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to settle certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section concerning current economic policies with certain restrictions. These restrictions relate to the state budget. Therefore, the Government cannot bring on the basis of these powers to amend the state budget. He can't prescribe taxes. The Government shall also adhere to the restrictions laid down in Article 88. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. These restrictions concern human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, structure, detour and way of working of state bodies and local self-government bodies. These powers shall only be transferred to the Government of the Republic of Croatia until the Croatian Parliament is in session and in cases where the Croatian Parliament is disbanded, in the event of an extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament is a legislative body that adopts and amends laws. Regulations which will be in force at the time of the entry into force of this law shall apply until 30 November 2021. This does not mean that those Regulations cannot be amended or that they cannot be shortened. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support this Final Bill proposal as it contributes to legal certainty and ensures regular exercise of the fundamental duties of state authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17005	Thank you. We are now going to an individual debate and the first one will be a respected representative, Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17006	I am pleased that in my previous statement of view on behalf of the club, I have been able to touch the essence of the problem which has obviously disturbed the Vice-President of the Parliament who would like to prescribe for me what I can and cannot talk about and see the link, and he should be in such a place between democracy and the relations of the Government and the Parliament. Unfortunately, I have to disappoint, I'm not foolish and I know very well what the subject of this debate is, and I believe that's exactly why I hit her essence with my own exposure. So let's preserve the democratic processes, and let's stop being totalitarian and try to determine each other's rights and not talk about what we can't talk about. In this individual debate, I would like to point out one specific regulation that was adopted in this end of the Parliament adopted by the Government and which I consider to have adverse consequences, which will not be done sooner than the prescribed time as we could see in this final draft of the law. It is a regulation relating to educational processes. This regulation provides for a number of things. One of them is that the student from 1st to 4th grade of primary school, not more than 1st to 3rd grade, who is rated once or more, can pass through to the upper class. And the second is, for example, that it can now be insufficient in 4 subjects to be referred to supplemental work, not 2 as previously all in the name of the current pandemic. The proposal, an opposition proposal to only apply until 30 April, was rejected with a cynical remark that the Assembly could discuss new amendments to the law earlier. And we know what it's like to try to change some law to the Parliament and the proposal comes from opposition. Nothing to anyone. What is it, and why am I pointing out this regulation? It is that this regulation has confirmed and completed the process of decommissioning the school system. Considering that the school started under exceptional circumstances under epidemiological measures and a number of complaints from parents in front of the wall because they have no one to turn to, the Assembly needs to react more strongly. The Ombudsman’s Office for Children emphasized only the necessity of more transparent measures did not respond adequately, provided children with protection and support to parents. Similarly, by leaving competence on the functioning of the school system almost exclusively to epidemiological experts, the resolute minister ignored the key role of education, which is precisely the quality of the educational process that has become unnecessary in this school year. First, the criteria have already been reduced, second class is already broken. Thirdly, the criteria cannot temporarily cease to exist because then the teaching process has no record. You can't tell one group of students, you have to study to get past class, and the other at the same time, you don't have to meet any criteria to go through class, because, well, society is sick. Of course, the situation is difficult for students, but teachers too need to get the most out of the way. But it doesn't mean turning school into a game, and grading into a farce because other than children will get confused, and maybe it's incorrigible, with one year worth one criteria, and another year it's going to be, that they're going to follow a new class at all and make up for the holes they have and no one's allowed to pay attention to in the coming year. Well, I guess teachers don't ruin kids from jokes. In a normal situation, I rule out, of course, pathological cases because they're the subject of another debate, teachers give an assessment insufficient because the student is unable to follow the class at the next level, you can't solve multiplication tasks, if you can't add up. The message of this is all passing away, let's play class until the pandemic passes, at the same time let teachers play epidemiological experts and lead to detention of children who sneeze. But that's only part of the problem. Now I come to his essence. The execution and lack of clear objectives in the educational process are seen in the following. As we tear down all the criteria on the one hand, and by it all weakened anyway, and the necessary authority of teachers, we are also insanely ambitious and at the same time confirming the collapse of education and pushing a progressive experimental school for life whose failures and problems are no longer spoken of. After this pandemic finally passes, there will be books about the senselessness that has come to light under its pressure. There's a lot of heroes out there, at least that's how it was supposed to be. It is with us that only the strong are known in torment, and they will become louder and unfortunately become more and more. We can only hope that justifiable dissatisfaction will not spill to the streets. Streets, which always warn democracy when it loses its purpose, but they rarely do so with democratic methods. It is therefore high time to identify and articulate and to prevent problems together while this is still possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17007	We have two replicas, please stay here. He had the first respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17008	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'll also talk about the education system. First of all, when you say teaching turns into a game, the best kids learn through the game. Here,.../incomprehensible/... but I understand what you're saying. So, in my opinion, pushing this live class is actually a total failure, what we should be doing is moving the school towards online continuing just to prevent the spread of the infection, and if the kids are learning to grade, then we really haven't done much. Then our system is not good, but not because of government decisions, but much deeper, because of valuable things. Because if they learn about grades, not knowledge, then the battle for knowledge at the beginning is lost. At the beginning. And as for the criteria, unfortunately we're used to one year being one, the second year being another, because as each minister comes, he or she has a vision, so we drag some projects that have proved to be a fiasco like the School of Life.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17009	Answer, MP Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17010	Thank you. So I think it's really vital that we have the opportunity to continue live and that we should insist on keeping it as long as possible, of course, following the epidemiological situation and that's one of the few things I appreciate in the current operation of the ministry. As far as this second part of the evaluation is concerned, of course the assessment is just a consequence, not a goal in itself, but as long as there is an educational system that evaluates, these assessments must have their own content and meaning, and they can't become a mere play, so that's what I really wanted to emphasize. The fact that if you can have the unit that your heart wants, then those units don't mean anything. We can cancel the entire education system and the entire evaluation system, and then say that the grades aren't important, and as long as we have it, it has to be correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17011	The next replica of the respected representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17012	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, in your previous debate, you are calling for the protection of democracy and democratic processes. This means above all that you should also respect the processes that should take place in this assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that we have brought most of the votes, all together here we MPs. Not just you, but all of us together should stick to this Rules of Procedure and thus strengthen the Parliament as the most legislative body in this country. You are now discussing in your individual debate at the agenda point which is the student evaluation. This has nothing to do with each other, and the Rules of Procedure tell you nicely, when we discuss a particular topic, we should stick to that topic. You, in violation of this Rules of Procedure, are questioning both democratic processes and respect for this High House and democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17013	Representative Selak Rasludic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17014	I am glad that I have had the opportunity to hear another righteous speech from the ruling majority who would re-speak to someone exactly what he can talk about. I do not know if you as I have read this final draft of the law, but it specifically lists what I said, and if I am not mistaken, it is about the proposal by the representative of Vesna Nađ that this Regulation is being reconsidered or that it is worth reviewing by 30 April so that what will happen next year, and not until I am wrong, will be considered on 30 November as it should be worth it. So it's something very specific about the educational process and the regulation that the government has adopted, not the Parliament, and that has concrete consequences for our teachers and for our students, so I can't be more in the subject than I have been in this speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17015	The Republic also has a representative, Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17016	Thank you very much. My fellow Members, you have well noticed all the problems from which it may arise if the Assembly is cleared and I believe that the subject you spoke about, and this is about education, so we can talk about the environment, about the Ministry of Environmental Threatening, which makes terribly harmful decisions, and I do not think that at any cost the Parliament should be able to rule out that what the Parliament is making in laws, that this is done by the Government of the Republic, because if the Parliament does so, then we are actually allowed to rule us out. Your conclusion, your debate, so it was about education that belongs to decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that can make this through regulations regardless of the Rules of Procedure which have been adopted to reduce the right of parliamentary representatives to speak, which is going towards the totalitarian regime of eating immediately and ousting the chairman, you say one sentence that does not suit him, he throws you out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17017	Representative Selak Rasludic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17018	Thank you. So, I'd like to remind you one more time. The aim of the Rules of Procedure is not to restrict the ability of Parliamentarians to speak but to end the disorder, and at the moment I speak about the subject in a way that you do not like, then it is not the purpose of misusing this Rules of Procedure to limit my ability to speak here, because what I am saying is not working for you, but the aim of the Rules of Procedure is to use only when it is necessary, and that is when there is a mess. Free speech on the subject does not endanger anyone, and by being angry and shouting here when I am trying to talk about some topics you are merely showing first that I am guessing at the srid as my fellow respected representative Bulj would say, and secondly give the importance of what I am talking about, I thank you for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17019	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17020	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Very short. Like the speakers said before me, so... The 88th Constitution is prescribed by such delegations of power and I have no problem with such a delegation of powers. What I have problems here is what was mentioned earlier, and that's parliamentary monitoring. Parliamentary monitoring which actually exists in a very rudimentary, very rudimentary form in HS and on which definitely should be done more not only in this segment but also in others. So, as far as current economic policy is concerned, besides taxes, of course taxes are something only HS can change, I think that's okay, and that more resolute Committee on Economy should more then focus and monitor what the government and bring. At the end of the day and I'll finish there, I'll be very brief, that's the point. Art. The 88th Constitution makes it clear that powers cannot be delegated in the case of human rights and fundamental freedoms. And that's what's crucial, in fact, is what we come up with from the debates before, which are doubts whether a government or a government-delegated body, in this case arbitrarily, can decide to restrict the same, so human rights and fundamental freedoms. This is a key problem in my view, because all measures that affect human rights and fundamental freedoms should be decided by HS regardless of the pandemic, regardless of the challenges we face. Those decisions in order to have full legitimacy, which no one would question, should have been made by HS. So, at the end of the day monitoring is something we need to work on in HS, not monitoring just in this case over the government, I'm speaking in general. More communication should be between the government and the HS because I have the impression that members of the government and members of the government often forget that this house has chosen them, that they are not directly elected, that this house is directly chosen to respond to the Croatian public, but above all also to us who either voted, but also not to vote for them. Their responsibility is here for this pay phone, in this home, in these chairs, and then to the public and the others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17021	We have a replica of the respected representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17022	Thank you very much. Representative Hajdukovic, do you consider it appropriate. 47. The law on protection against infectious diseases that the Civil Protection Staff, therefore its decisions are made under direct, direct government supervision and that actually when the government controls the government it actually controls the decisions of the headquarters and that we actually know who we're going to charge or not to charge if these decisions of the headquarters are not in accordance with the constitution and the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17023	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17024	So, then we're talking colleagues about the government delegating something that we've delegated to the government, so by choosing a government or some other way. In my opinion, this legal formulation is clear, that then the government is the one who bears the responsibility absolutely. And this transfer of the ball of responsibility is the headquarters responsible, is responsible for this name or name and in fact the confusion of the public and the blurring of the whole story and the creation of some parallel command chains. Because who bears the greatest responsibility? According to us and the Croatian public, the absolute government, no government pair of bodies or bodies to which the government transfers its powers, cannot do so. So it is Andrej Plenkovic who is the most responsible for all, regardless of whether the decision was made by the headquarters or by someone else and the question is whether the headquarters can and what kind of monitoring or supervision the permanent government must have over them in order to make these decisions and be legitimate?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17025	The next debate will be a representative of Mira Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17026	Thank you very much. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The assembly as the main legislative body of the government of the Republic of Croatia comes from parliament. Degrading this home is continuing, especially as far as freedom of speech is concerned. We need to know that in the past term the reduced rights and speeches of parliamentary representatives were imposed on both sides and on the other hand did new political options appear and, of course, everything had to be done businessly to disable the number of replicas, the number of these possible breaks to talk about problems, are we all simply traveling. Me, of course, from Sinj to Zagreb, is paid by the people. I'm here to bring up all the problems from the constituency. However, it has been disabled. Just so you know, those of you who were new before could be asked to take a break whenever you wanted as a parliamentary representative, to present the problem you have, which you consider to be good. It's all off-limits, on purpose, and of course we see that it's often us who are a little louder to throw us out using some kind of warning that doesn't even explain why they're giving you a warning, but notice one, note two, notice three, and that's all in agreement with the government. So not only do you want to silence the opposition that there is no business, but now you want us to transfer powers to the government. So who am I going to transfer power to, Minister Coric to sign wind power plants and incentives that are coming from the pockets of our citizens of money or what did my colleague say about the education of Selak Rasdic? What am I gonna sign, what am I gonna support? The Parliament is the one who makes the laws. What regulations? Whose regulation does someone who does not hold on to the dignity of the Croatian Parliament who comes here to mock the parliamentary deputies? Let's not let ourselves get loose. In Croatia there is only God behind the Parliament and no one else. I know this is a hand-raiser parade here. I can say it myself, I was a parliamentary representative and I did not vote in favour of the key budget document. Perhaps the first since the independent Republic of Croatia I have not voted in favour of the budget so I have the legitimacy to now tell you colleagues and colleagues that this is the degradation of the Parliament. Constitutional break summer – winter, who says that we cannot come to an extraordinary session if something important and important is discussed and that we discuss at that session a number of points i.e. Is that what we're voting on? Who gave this... colleague and colleague from the majority? Here's colleague Stier, is it democracy that the Parliament is making important laws or should we transfer powers to the government to make most of us raise hands and worry about us? There's Christmas and New Year's Eve, let the government do whatever it wants, it's not even responsible for the voters who gave us their votes to the parliamentarians, it's not responsible. Otherwise, what is going through these government regulations, through regulations, mainly through regulations, is, here now the regulation will give a concession on payment at the Krka National Park to make payments under concession. So imagine how far that goes? 90% of the income, 99% of the income will go under concession to charge tickets to our beauty. Why would I support those regulations? Why? Because we're, like, giving a framework here, and basically the regulation has completely changed the law framework. So we passed the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas and Undeveloped Areas, no financial envelope, no framework, but all beautifully written. That's why? Because it's only a pear. It is we, regardless of opposition or authority, that we discuss and bring what needs to be brought and take responsibility by voting, not to pass on to the Government the responsibility resulting from the Croatian Parliament. That's why I'm surprised and worried because there are ministers and former ministers among you on the one hand and on the other, there are no ministers at the moment but there are secretaries who are aware that the Government can handle the regulations... Do whatever he wants with the rules, whatever he wants us not to be asked. [[You don't understand.]] What people choose us except for the directive, the regulations of the European Union here, which are prescribed, we hold hands. What does it matter to the people at these moments except that we have a number of opposition proposals that lie down at the bottom of the agenda all the time, then we have to collect signatures to argue? Actually, we have work to do. We don't need a break. We can call an extraordinary session. They were excellent elections because it was appropriate for the political government to allow the headquarters to win elections at the best of times when they were the most popular civil protection headquarters.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17027	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. He's the first honorary representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17028	Thank you very much, Vice President. The honourable representative, namely the Croatian Parliament or the Croatian MPs, has adopted a Constitution that allowed the adoption of such a legal proposal. So this is nothing unusual. On the other hand, such a bill is adopted regularly every year. Why is it brought? It would allow the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be able to act in exceptional situations at such times as the Parliament does not. One more thing. We were in an extraordinary session in July. At that point, this law does not apply, therefore, no legal delegation in that respect. So, the Croatian Parliament was still sitting in a situation where the Constitution prescribed it to be a break. Therefore, in exceptional situations when the Assembly of this Proposal for Law is sitting, this Law does not apply. And I repeat, this is not unusual. So every year it's a law that is passed and for the very reason that the government in certain emergency situations could act when it's necessary, so if we all should get together now on some extraordinary situation, that would be quite difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17029	Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17030	I am against delegation of power to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and cannot support it. I did not support that strange decision where absolutely all power is given that is not a political body even entering human rights and freedom that the headquarters of civil protection, then the Mosta Club did not support or vote in the past term at the beginning of this pandemic, a crisis with Covid. Therefore, I believe this House must hold to its dignity. We have committees that we have to hire, so we include decision-making and vote. We're bringing. Why should I trust anyone, Prime Minister or Minister? What reason? Well, we have complaints that we're going to give in the debate and you don't have colleagues and colleagues to accept but you can... Well, we have something to do. [[You don't understand.]] If the Constitution so has an extraordinary session, the extraordinary session was when it was behind the elections now was a summer break had to be, so there's a possibility of calling a session.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17031	The Republic is also represented by representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17032	Dear Representative Bulj, I would agree with what you are saying because it is one thing to talk about regulations and this bill of law that is really passed every year under normal circumstances. But the second is when we have concrete regulations, as is the case now, and which have been brought into the light of extraordinary circumstances, I am currently talking about education, and they will also apply at the beginning of the next school year where we hope there will be no situation like this, and the Parliament cannot decide on that. Now we can pray to God that the resolute minister remembers to change that regulation, and perhaps for who knows what reason he will not do it, and who will then be responsible in that case? And what I would like to ask you, and what concerns me in particular, is that when the ruling majority has this totalitarian impulse, it wants to silence the opposition, but the other is when this same Rules of Procedure is used and abused by the opposition itself to silence the other part of the opposition. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17033	Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17034	Well, you said everything in your question. The ruling must know that one day there will be opposition, and that this relationship in democracy must not be imposed and reduced to the right of speech in the House of Parliament, in the assembly, and that citizens will feel when my parliamentary representatives are taken away from me and in freedom of speech, reduce the rights of speech, which has been done continuously since I entered the assembly five years ago. Only changes to the Rules of Procedure in order to bring us into that position so that we cannot replicate enough times, so that we cannot represent enough times the views that are important for citizens from the area where we come from or significant national topics, and of course who guarantees that the minister will do what needs to be done, and that we will be able to warn in parliamentary debates, who guarantees it? You guarantee what we will delegate to them and disenfranchise ourselves? I don't want the HS to break down, and when I vote to break down HS, then I won't run anymore, I'll run to be a parliamentary representative and the people give us legitimacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17035	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Zeljko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17036	... Here, as a young intellectual years ago, I listened to the Department of Criminal and Constitutional Law at the Faculty of Law in Zagreb "The Fundamental Plants of Constitutional Rights" from respected professors. [[Speaker not enabled]] Mr. Sokola and, of course, this has all progressed in constitutional law science today, and this is Mr. Chairman-in-Office. As a young colleague Bencic, this was extremely well translated, commented and presented with a view to the comparative practice of other developed countries of democracy, notably Germany in relation to parliament and the executive authority of Parliament, the law and constitutional regulations of the government that have the power of the law. In that sense, we need to say that we really need to be extremely restrictive about it. Today in Croatia we are witnessing a difficult period in our history when President Tudjman had to pass those regulations with legal force, but at the time of the war. Today such, thank God, the situation is gone, but we have an earthquake, we have severe floods, we have a covid as you said. But it is something that is important because we parliamentary MPs and in such situations, although we can meet in a restrictive manner and agree with all colleagues who have said that we must retain this power except in exceptional situations, and when we transfer it to you in the executive power, then we must limit it to deadlines. Some regulations cannot and should not be for a year. We can have like Mrs. Right. Bencic observed, parliamentary surveillance every 3 months, every 6 months, especially when we are sitting here parallelly, with our meeting there is no need to operate regulations with the legal force that we can act on, and we are these masters of this situation, we have passed this law, and we have delegated ourselves, and that our Prime Minister has excluded us from this process so that we can influence this process, which is an indicator now of the actions of the Civil Protection Staff where we can absolutely all agree on it, and you, Mr. Chairman, are extremely, extremely, extremely, deeply, unmarked human rights and freedoms in the recent Croatian state of those decisions. The Constitutional Court said what it said, but everyone knows what lockdown means, what it means to end a social economic life, individual freedoms, so it's outrageous, that I couldn't get to my vineyard here without a pass or I don't know from one end to, to the Great Gorica or to Zeline, out of my mind. Now, that's how it is. We do not want Croatian sovereigns, and we have seen other colleagues and colleagues, that we just give up our own committee on responsibility to hand over the decision on the fate of the Croatian people, if you do not have that foundation, you know it, you do not have that foundation, this fundamental authority has national representatives and we will do everything in accordance with the constitution and international acts to make you function, but that we are watching you at all times as you do in our opinion here in HS in the interest of the Croatian people. It's our right. Now, most parliaments will make the decision they will make, but keep in mind the very, very useful, very smart words of professional smart people, educated, constitutionally legal above all, and experts outside parliament, here's the opportunity not to give up what is fundamentally given to us, we are responsible to the Croatian people and we decide on fundamental things. It's just that it's a restriction. It's a good thing. Find out what restrictions there are and what legal reserves are, etc. But you see, besides all that, there is a provision that the police can now enter your apartment if you have 11 persons and such as Mrs. Bencic said you're going somewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17037	Stay a moment because we have one replica of the respected representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17038	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Sacic, so I'll repeat what I've said before. So, in my view, the problem is more surveillance, or monitoring which the representative body should have in, over executive power that actually stems from the representative authority because we choose it. Not only in this case, in most cases others, and not only when we delegate some of our powers, but when the government is doing power from its own circle. So this surveillance, parliamentary surveillance, is, I'm afraid, with our still relatively rudimentary, not what it should be because we should be correct to the government. Not only do they support her, but we, too, who did not vote for her, not to be wrong or to criticize someone for criticizing her, but also to really contribute to making the solutions that the government brings out of its own circle and we from ours as good as possible. And all for the benefit of the citizens who chose us here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17039	Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17040	Well, I have nothing but to agree with, add, and this, and that is the essence of democracy, so the opposition must participate, it must not be excluded, but based on the arguments, not on the grace of the Prime Minister, or that, by the way, Mr. Chairman, thank you for giving me your word. I'm a magistrate of criminal law and as a successful warlord, I suggest you be a little harsh. You're too strict, you're throwing red charts too fast. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17041	Now, in the final name of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, MP Selak Rasdic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17042	This debate on the government's and parliament's relationship has a first priority to question democratic processes. As is the task of asking specific regulations adopted by the Government during that period, whose activity may be bad for society as a whole. This attempt to achieve democratic processes or the fundamental democratic right, which is the right of speech, is not the first time here in HS or here in Croatia or in its history. These kind of indications of totalitarian impulses that are not negligible and which can easily be waved, especially at a time of crisis, especially at a time when you have a situation in which you give authority in the hands of different headquarters, should be taken seriously because they can very badly end. Namely, these things remind me of what was happening in Agitproposlavia when Gilas prescribed exactly what books were allowed to come out, and no title was allowed out without the approval of the Party. Similarly, it was seen in lexicons whether it was under the letter “s” of Sutjeska or some other appropriate term, so if it was not accidentally used, then the entire editions were thrown into the wind. Let's not go back to such a totalitarian consciousness or transgenerational transfer at a time that is still determined by democracy. What I would like to conclude by listening to this whole debate, and as far as the Parliament's work is concerned, is what has been pointed out here, and that is that nothing is or should be self-evident anymore. It is, in fact, that such a bill is passed every year and it may have been self-conceived so far, but other than the argument that I have already made, which is that we are now in extraordinary circumstances, so the consequences of such regulations will be different than the consequences, under quotes, standard regulations, nothing should be understood. If things are self-conceived, then it means that we Parliamentarians are sleeping in our benches. What especially fraternised me, in the work of the Parliament, and that presumption of self-discretion, is the recent situation when I dared to have an objection to the actions of the attorney, or to talk about gender equality where I was attacked by both the left and the right because it was something that had never been questioned so far, as if I was the football that you had to match because otherwise it would run away. It's no problem if we have totalitarian mechanisms by the ruling majority, then it keeps its seats to hold that majority and has its own specific tasks because it is part of a large, robust and difficult party machinery that still does not recognise democratic action. But it is a serious problem if we take advantage of the work of the Rules of Procedure, the way it is prescribed, we, out of opposition, to honor each other or to prescribe what we can talk about. It's a moment where we all have to ask ourselves what our purpose is here and how much we can and we want to be hypocritical, while on the one hand we criticize the autocratic government, and on the other hand, we take advantage of its regulations at times when it suits us, so that we shut down those who think differently from us. So that's where I'd stop, and that's where I'd conclude, this question shouldn't be self-conceived, like no law-making proposal, no matter what it's brought on Friday afternoon, should be self-evident. Every one of them needs to be talked about, not to be asleep, and we need to show our vigilance because that's why we're finally elected here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-11-20-0.u17043	I will conclude the debate on this point, and the Defence Committee will vote on it when the conditions are met.
