ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5355	Thank you, too. It is now up to Mr. Stipo Mlinarić, who will present the position of the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement. Just a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5356	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The first thing I'd like to do today is mark breast cancer, a malignant disease that attacks women. I'd like to give them support for this pay phone, and unfortunately, I've had this malignant disease in my family. Step forward and you'll be fine. And now he'd turn to politics. I would turn to Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, who we see in yesterday's speech, that he made his statement, that he was against establishing a parliamentary commission to investigate what was going on in the basements down there where the money was being shared. Andrej Plenkovic is usually the maher to draw up lists, whoever puts it on the list, he is the one who chooses, but who he puts on the list, in most cases he ends up in Remetinco. That's how she ended up. The Roman who told us the other day in front of the cameras and counted her wedding days, 124 days she spent, it was the choice of Andrej Plenkovic, then she was the secretary of state, she mentioned that she had spent 124 days, I would just like to tell you all, that I will now look back at one category of defenders, and these are Croatian campers, who I have spent Serbian camps, 270 days, we have not had opportunities as Mrs. A Roman gets paid for his camping 6+6, as she asked from prison. We didn't even get a chance to be heard. Unfortunately, the population of 15 thousand people, who passed through Serbian camps from Montenegro, from BiH, Manjaca, from Glina, from Stara Gradiška, from Knin, from Sremska Mitrovica, from Stajic, from Nis, are camps for which Croatian defenders fought for the Croatian state and ended up in Serbian camps. Mr Plenkovic does not think of asking that question to Serbia, to say that we are seeking compensation for being unlawfully held in Serbia's territory and in Serbian camps. It never occurred to him, and unlike that, the County Court in Split paid 5 million kuna, meaning only one county court, for Serbian soldiers who attacked Croatia, so they were trapped with us, paid 5 million kuna in compensation. It's a public statement right here, even though I said it in public once on TV. I'm not interested in money from Serbia, I'm interested in judgment, I want that money because I've made it bloody well, but I'm going to give it for humanitarian purposes to fight children against cancer, I'm going to donate that money because I've bloody earned it and I'm not going to spend it. I would like Andrej Plenkovic to answer such questions where he has grounds to charge compensation for 15,000 campers, not to send us when there are some anniversary like the 14.8th in Nemetin, where he sends two representatives of HDZ, one of the mayors of Anusic and the gentleman from the assembly who talk about the problem on two different sides. One says that the defence ministry has given the association to go with private lawsuits, which is the notorious nonsense of those people who passed Serbian camps to humiliate once more to go privately sue Serbia as if they were fighting privately in their own name, and not for this country, and the other is talking about the same speaker behind it that it was placed in Chapter 23 in Serbian Chapter 23 so that they can't shut him down until he gets rid of the compensation to the campers. Unfortunately, HDZ cannot agree with itself. There Mr. Plenkovic doesn't know what he would do, there he doesn't know, there he doesn't know that maybe the same thing should be established by an investigative committee if he's running away from everything the people want and what the people want. That's how it was for the referendum initiatives where 400,000 people were dumped because he didn't want to change the election law or anything because we see that he's good. selector to say Serbs, and you [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Players End [[Thank you very much.]] in Remetavac. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5357	Thank you. Mr. Branko Bacic was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5358	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 238 has been injured. Rules of Procedure My colleague.../incomprehensible/... and I have been the defender of no government in Croatia so far, has made modern Croatia the victims of the Homeland War made by the Government of Andrej Plenkovic. [[/Intruder: Which, which article?]] You know that very well. But that's not why I told you, this is where you do the HDZ on crime and corruption. Look at yours. Many of your leaders have been through reconnaissances and investigations for the past 15 years. There's a person in the club for you. with an inadmissible verdict for taking bribes as a doctor [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] And you're doing HDZ here, Andre Plenkovic. [[Intruder: Time, Mr. Bačić.]] First you sweep in your backyard and then... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5359	Mr. Bacic time, time. Look at this one I haven't heard an article.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5360	238.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5361	But in Article 238, there's no misrepresentation, I didn't notice that. Uh, Mr. Bull is first. The microphone, the microphone, Mr. Bull first was, Mr. Bull was before you were. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5362	Thank you very much. My colleague Bacic hurt Article 238 because the truth is that this government did the most. She didn't do anything at all, nothing but you in a coalition with a party that was magnificent to Chetnya, nothing else. [[Well, Mr. Bull is gone, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5363	To tell the truth, look let's not play with the breach of the Rules of Procedure it's not, it's not a replica, it's not a replica. I'll be free for you, so I'll read you 238 one more time, because from now on, then the warnings go, not now. In accordance with Article 238, a representative may not speak about a subject which is not subject to discussion, speak without prior approval of the president, his impediments or otherwise distracting the speaker, begin to talk about another subject which he has not been subject to if he has reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, belittle or insult the President or other representatives, take his or her conduct aside from the general rules of conduct in the assembly and otherwise disrupt the order of the sitting. So none of this is hurt or injured by the Rules of Procedure, I only read it because from now on I'm going to make warnings. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5364	You can give me a note in 238, Mr. Bacic, all I've said is true. 5,000 suicides were made, you said that I said a broom to target, you had a snow shovel to clean up how many HDZ prisoners ended up in prisons, how much money was distributed in the basements, and you had to supply for my colleagues in the club this one that you had to document I don't know that nobody from our club was in Remetinco unlike HDZ who in the last 30 years was one 150 - 200 people from the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5365	Okay, thank you very much, time, I warned you, you have your first warning. Mr. Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5366	In 238, the Minister of Croatian Defence, the Croatian Government, the Croatian Ministry of Defence through all these years, has made more for Croatian defenders in all difficult conditions, the situation of Croatian defenders, of protests, of all the problems we had in the former government, today we can really say with a lot of problems that we have the Minister and Ministry of Croatian Defence who are one of the best ministries in all Croatian governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5367	Thank you very much, and you get a warning because it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, but I warned, Mr. Bull, from now on, I'm giving notices. You asked for Mr. Baitch? Mr. Bull, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5368	Thank you very much. My colleague Deur hurt Article 238 because he needs to know that none of our campers who are b30o and missing have solved the problem. You know that criminals are in Croatia, you know that we still have Chetnik tombstones like the Shoskocan while the Hos Croatian defenders are throwing and taking off, the cartoonist coalitions of HNS, SDSS and HDZ have taken down the bar, the chart board and the 11th. the dead, and it is your greatest result and it is a disgrace to Croatia [[Thank you very much, you've been through, you've been through...]] [[You've been through time, time, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5369	As I can understand, you've got a warning. Please don't, please don't give any other injuries to the Rules of Procedure because I'm going to have to give another warning, please, well, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5370	Dear colleague Bulj and dear friend and defender, surely the Croatian state has been through the Homeland War a tragedy and that in the last 30 years. There are many situations that all of the people who are criminals to our campers to the mothers who are looking for their children, so I want to tell them that the Croatian Defence Minister and the Ministry of Defence are doing the best they can to try to do as best as possible and that our missing to make that agreement. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time has passed...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5371	...you have another warning. Here you go, Mr. Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5372	238. Comrade Deur, you were one of the tents, one of the ringleaders, then you were bothered by the little things, today you don't mind, you don't mind the coalition with the SDSS, you don't mind if nobody was responsible for the war crimes, you don't mind that no one from the campers got any damages, you don't mind that they weren't found missing. So, you're talking about it, it really doesn't It doesn't make sense. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5373	You get a second warning and now I'm not giving any more damage to the Rules of Procedure before we rest for five minutes, five minutes break. Thank you. It's 9:52 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:56 AM]] We're going to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Deur. He's gone. He's losing his right. - Mrs. Crescent. Bedekovic, are you giving up or insisting?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5375	Dear Vice President, yes, I insist, colleague Mlinarić, Art. 238, the violation of the Rules of Procedure because what he was talking about was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure but was a pure replica and persisting on the subject and I would only remind and stress to my colleague that what is important first is to clean up your yard because we all know that in their club they have a person who is unlawfully convicted of taking bribes, found guilty both at the first and second hearings. And old age came under strange circumstances. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5376	Ma'am. Bedekovic, time. But I have to warn you because what you said, it's my job, not yours, unfortunately. Mr. Mlinarich.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5377	238, Mr. Vice President. Ma'am, you have a prime minister in a prison that was Sanader, lying in jail, waiting for three more charges brought against him, which have not been completed. [[Intruder Radin: How?]] You're talking about some morale, whether someone's out of date from our club or not, that's embarrassing. And secondly, you shut me up you can't, I say, for this country I've fought for... For her, my brother was killed for her, therefore, the reminders meant nothing to me. You can give it away. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5378	No, that's your third warning to take away the words for this agenda point, whatever that means, right? So you can't speak at this point anymore, to take a stand. I'm just doing my job. You were looking for an injury again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5379	Yes, Your Honor. This wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure. This was a replica. Dear colleague, please intend to replicate and sweep the front yard of your club. Don't make me repeat that you have in your ranks a person who is unlawfully convicted of taking bribes. And old age came under strange circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5418	Thank you, too. It is up to Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic, who will present the position of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5419	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today is October 7th and today we mark an anniversary of an event that took place not far from this building, and it is about the attack on the Ban Courts 29 years ago. In fact, 29 years ago, JNA fighter planes with a five-point star shot and hit the Ban Courts and nearly killed our President Franjo Tudjman. He was not only the target of the attack, he was then the chairman of the presidency of the then Yugoslav state, Stjepan Mesic, and was president of the Federal Executive Council Ante Markovic. So, at the time, it was intended to decapitate Croatia completely and, of course, conquer Croatia. The day after, or tomorrow, we also mark our independence. Today, the same Belgrade is also flying planes and comes from Belgrade, Vucic, who has not apologized for the event and will be back in a few days, in a few months. And Andrej Plenkovic, Plenkovic will meet with him again, shake hands and lobby for his, for their entry into the EU, and this event and everything that followed after this event is not spoken of today. However, the absurdity of today's situation in Croatia is that if you want to liquidate state leadership today, you should not target the Bane Courts, but should target a building on the Slovenian street. Today's situation is that the most positioned people of the Croatian state, the most influential journalists, politicians, managers, judges, commanders of the armed forces, meet in clubs where money counterers stand on the bar. So here if someone wants to make an assassination tomorrow, anywhere in Croatia, the address is not Mark's square, the address is, for example. Some club where the obscenities that run the state meet. I have to mention one fact that few citizens remember that number because it's fantastic. 2 million 595 thousand kunas were found with the state's attorney's husband, almost 2 million and 600 thousand kuna. How much money does an average citizen of our country need to earn and save that kind of money? That's fantastic. I'm going to touch another topic, and it's connected to this subject, and it's about little Yanafima, and every JLS or not to say every, almost every one, has its own little Janafa. Soon local elections, and suddenly, especially these large parties, will receive a lot of donations from legal entities and by 100,000 kunas, both visible and invisible. Suddenly, numerous companies that work exclusively or almost exclusively with units of local or regional self-government will pay invisible ads on city, municipality and county portals, and no one is investigating it. From this point on, I am responsibly saying that it is a more multiple amount than it is, for example. in this Janaf affair or in general about all the affairs that were happening at the state level, that corruption at that lowest level in hundreds of municipalities and cities is much higher and all those sitting in the assembly know that and now they're looking at their cell phone, everyone knows that. And in the end, I will also find time to warn of a very serious situation here. Given that we are marking the day today, the National Day of Combating Breast Cancer, here you would warn of a major problem, which is that because of the crown crisis, due to the outbreak of the coronary virus, that today, in Croatia, it is being tested for ultrasound on mammography several times by women less than it was before the crown of the crisis. We're going to have a breast cancer epidemic within a month, not just breast cancers, but all other cancers. So with this time, from this place, from this place here I'm ordering all women, and also their husbands and families to stimulate them, to gather courage regardless of this situation which, let them go, means search so that the worst thing doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5442	Thank you very much. It is now up to Mr Marin Lerotić to present the position of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5443	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. According to relevant reports by international institutions such as the World Bank, the Doing Business report, unfortunately Croatia is at the bottom of the EU under operating conditions and regulatory business, although the government will try to make things better, unfortunately the facts are not pink at all. Economists constantly point to the necessary preconditions to be achieved in order to successfully operate in Croatia, which are the stability of the business and legislative environment, effective justice, efficient public administration and digitalisation. What especially burdens entrepreneurs and presents them with a business barrier are a number of parafiscal burdens that have been reportedly lifted for years, but none of them ever do. Tax burden in Croatia is 18% higher than its tax coefficient. As a positive example, I will point out, watch out for Montenegro, which has reduced taxes for investors and therefore reached Croatia at the level of foreign foreign investment in the head of the population as early as 2010. In this difficult economic situation, it is necessary to give entrepreneurs and craftsmen and everyone who employs and works extra space for work and profit, not constantly introduce and invent new accusations and new restrictions. Unfortunately, the money he intends to withdraw from the eu funds will serve the government only to make a beautiful picture and show that the situation in the economy is not as bad as it seems, while those essential reforms will fail again. A certain amount of time will be bought to spend that money, and what happens after that? Key question today, how do you create new jobs under crisis conditions and economic downturns? What economic branches are successful and profitable even at this challenging time, and that they can withdraw the economy until tourism recovers? On these issues, the government should give clear answers today and offer a series of incentives and reliefs, not talking about how everything will be resolved with European money. The state represents a public service and it is clear that it cannot create market jobs on its own, but the state can and must create an environment that is encouraging for investment and business. I will take this opportunity to repeat once again that the Croatian economy must stop relying solely on tourism as a source of income. Tourism is not a problem. The problem is the burdened economy, excessive and slow bureaucracy and poor investment climate. The share in creating a new value of about 12% while 1995 was over 17. we must stop treating tourism as the only hand that feeds us because unfortunately this year we have convinced ourselves that this economic policy is bad and risky. Despite the black forecasts this year, we were able to pull out more than expected from the tourist season, but the question is what if this season happens again next year? And that's why I'm appealing to the government, disbursing investors, making investment possible and bringing a serious economic development strategy. If you do not, the pandemic will eventually sink Croatia's economy, which is already one of the weakest in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5491	Good morning, everyone. We begin by taking a stand on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. The first is on behalf of the club of representatives of HSLS and Reformist Mr Darko Klasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5492	Here's a good morning, everybody. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm going today on the subject of professional chambers which are a great burden in our society. The structural chambers are large barriers on the free market and create a multitude of imposes. We've already known HGK and HOK who pay membership fees... companies or all trades. These are two charges that do not exist in most European countries, and professional chambers further disrupt the freedom of association and the market for entrepreneurs. They are present in most regulated professions, for example under the authority of health, construction, justice and social policy, there are about 25, taking into account that each of the professional chambers has a registration, membership fee and a professional exam. So it's a large number of well-known parafiscal duties we've often talked about in this House and the great property of these chambers. I note that only members of their chamber members received 222 million kuna in the last year. I think the total income was over 385 million kuna chambers, which is actually imposed on all of our society. And of course, from such large incomes are funded only excellently paid administrative jobs in those chambers. But that is not all, there are other obligations and barriers that the law prescribes, and the right to do so is delegated to the chambers. It is obviously not enough for them, so they need to put extra pressure on the economy. The Croatian Audit Chamber has the Revision Act, which is already subject to membership fees. The Croatian pharmaceutical chamber has a rich price list of its services, you can see on their site over 30 and something imposes only on the pharmacy. The Croatian public record chamber prescribes high fees for the certification of a series of documents required by a series of laws and all on the burden of citizens. You know that public record activity is extremely profitable. Many members of the chamber will say that they pay taxes on their acquired diplomas, each diploma is your license has no need for additional licensing of any activity. They have acquired professional education, and then they are subject to membership for a licence and barriers are set from which chambers of expertise have a special interest and for which they have stood up for competent resolutions and legislators. On top of all the above, some professional chambers are part of a non-transparent system within which many of them are not accountable to anyone for their repressive and restrictive actions toward at least some members. You know for a fact that they have a verbal delinquent that is introduced into the rules of the chamber and therefore judge some of their members. The powers of the chamber and the conduct of judicial disciplinary proceedings are disputed, the old cadiya sues you, the cadiya judges you. That is why HSLS will be for transparency and deregulation of the work of chambers, a large majority of politicians have never been interested in this topic except at least passively supporting this huge non-transparency through institutions executed and legislative authorities. On the other hand, many members of professions that disagree with restrictive and repressive systems make competition more difficult. The restoring ministries also passively observe such practices and feel powerless to change the laws that in many cases professional chambers write for themselves, and then give them to the resolutions in order to send them to the procedure. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of crafts are unnecessary structures that choke small entrepreneurs and craftsmen and prevent the creation of new values in society while at the same time entrepreneurs and craftsmen in practice provide little or nothing. The vast majority of entrepreneurs and craftsmen who asked for help from the HGK or the HOK had mostly negative experiences. In fact, these forced givings to HGK and HOK are the hardest to hit by small entrepreneurs and craftsmen and those to whom each kuna makes a difference. Voluntary association and voluntary payment of those considered to be good and useful is the foundation of liberal democracy, and forced imposes are a feature of authoritarian and totalitarian order. Experience shows that new established associations on a voluntary basis, such as the “Glass of Entrepreneurs” in a few months, have achieved more for their members, but also for all citizens in general than these two alienated, three-way and expensive structures in two to three decades. Due to all of this, HSLS calls and all MPs and its members, citizens to sign a petition of the “Glass of Entrepreneurs” association to abolish compulsory membership fees for HGK, HOK, HTZ and all other parafiscal duties, and we will, as so far, advocate the abolition of most parafiscal duties and tax cuts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5493	Thank you. I have a breach of Mr. Grumo's Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5494	He's been injured. The 238th member of the ruling HSLS coalition calls on citizens to sign a petition to lift membership fees for HGK and HOK and argues that no one has ever talked about it. So you have in the procedure a legal proposal that the Bridge has sent, support it, insist on it, don't be fooled again like you've been fooled about transparency.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5521	Thank you very much. Ma'am. Bedekovic, I think for so long as we've known each other, I've never given you a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and now I have to give you another violation of the Rules of Procedure. Second warning, excuse me. Let's not, I mean, let's move on, so people can take their stand, can we? We've got more, that's it. Let's move on. A little tolerance. Mr. Nikola Grumoja will be the position of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, please. Let's move on. - Mrs. Crescent. Anka Mrak-Taritash will be the position of the IP, Smart and GLAS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5523	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Ivo Sanader and his HDZ party, Zdravko Mamić, Ivica Todorovic and his so-called Managers, Spice affair, Nada Vidosevic, of course, Zagreb Mayor Milan Bandić and his associates, and now the latest players of this Croatian ribbon, Josipa Rimac and the participants of the Janaf affair and so on. For years and decades. In Croatia there are lower affairs, and for them spectacular arrests. Faces from the front page suddenly come out of police cars, journalists love the location of the search of reported and undeclared properties, always the same lawyers give statements on Zrinjevac or before Remetec, and in the end... At the end of it all turns out one big nothing. The process has stalled for years and decades, and the public has declared people guilty in the beginning, and then we never know the final decision of our judiciary. Whether they are truly guilty or not, they get a chance to clear their name, if neither the Croatian public nor the state get the satisfaction of long prison sentences and the return of at least part of the stolen money, if they are guilty. Since the fight against corruption in Croatia there is no b. The concepts of clarity are not a fight and they are not a serious business and it becomes quite obvious that one of the key obstacles is on our way to a serious state of justice. Look at the names I mentioned at the beginning. So what does it look like together? Can it be called serious business? Of course not. In the Croatian Union, we are 2nd to the number of judges per 100,000 inhabitants. At the expense of the judiciary in the share of GDP, we are 3. So we have the most judges, we spend the most, and the results are devastating. Is the problem just judges, their work and the organisation of courts? Is there a problem with laws? Is the problem a skilled lawyer that courts and state attorneys can't handle? Is there a problem with political pressure and corruption? It's probably how usually it's the answer to all these questions, yeah. It's a little bit of everything. But we all put up with it. Neither the state with such a judiciary can be completed, nor the citizens can protect their rights and achieve equality against the law, and certainly neither investors can trust that Croatia is the country in which women invest money and create jobs. And that's why they don't invest. In its report on the rule of law, the Commission has been counting nicely. The perception of judicial independence among citizens and companies is the lowest in Europe. Because of the pressure of politics and economic and other stakeholders. We're also at the bottom of modern technologies. The State Judicial Council, the State's Attorney's Council and the State's Attorney's Office are both personnel and in all other ways limited. And of course, by the number of pending cases and the length of the procedure we're also, the worst students. I understand that the funniest thing is to talk about who's with who and where he's been drinking, who's eating, who's hanging out with or not. But for our country, there are also really serious issues that we need to start dealing with urgently, if we want to have our own country, and one of those topics that needs to be addressed urgently and go ahead, we need to start solving and then solve is the worrying state of our judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5552	Mr. Silvano Hrelja will present the positions of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5553	Dear colleagues and colleagues. The unhonorable appearance of poverty in the social state is sometimes mentioned only in this honorable home, usually wrapped in statistics as some casual argument expressed in percentages. I try to make numbers a starting point for a solution, numbers help in objectivity and designing measures, but I don't need to forget the human dimension of poverty. Man creates him, man suffers him, man can soften him, man can save him. And the Croatian man often does that, humanitarian actions always have an incredible response but it is one time, it is a patch. We need medicine, we need therapy, we need prevention. Poverty is not just an individual's problem. It's a community. Imagine a house where everyone is happy and happy and happy, they go on trips and parties and Grandma on the ground floor is hungry. Why, why is it too often that this house is called Croatia? Why is it difficult for poor people to come to a solution? There are a number of reasons but they are all related to the incidence of poverty social exclusion. The poor don't have money, they don't have funds, clearly, but they don't have time or energy, they're at the bottom of the pyramid, and while you're worried about basic needs like food and heating, you can't ask yourself why and how? They're ashamed of the situation they've come into and blame themselves first. They have no influence, they can't return help or service. So the silent majority who suffers and suffers, only individuals who can no longer endure, screams of infirmity. They are misrepresented, numbered, 500, 700, 800 000, and are sometimes rounded to a million poor in the Republic of Croatia. When that data is wrong, it's twice as harmful. They insult the torment of a poor man because they say it is difficult for others, but immediately at the beginning they discourage possible help because budgetmakers will say so many of them we have no means and so we come to a situation in such a way that we never really know if the right number would be opportunities and resources, but I assure you, and I know that you believe me, there must be a limit of poverty in the social state to determine the number of people who suffer poverty, it must be. We from HSU last week in the procedure have referred the old/new Bill on the Completion of the Law on HRT which requires the adjustment of censorship and social measures to real life in the Republic of Croatia. Several categories of relief, the one relating to the elderly, says that a 40 kn preferential fee can be paid by those who have been registered as subscribers up to 12.10.2015. We have responded to the Supervisory Board and those with a pension of less than 1,500 kn. Shame, inanimate, inconceivable, unheard of, not enough. We suggest that singles whose walk is no more than 2500 kn and members of a household whose income is no more than 2000 kn, pay a monthly fee of 40 kn and suggest that all citizens with monthly incomes less than 1500 kn be free of monthly fees. This is part of our strategy against poverty with access do not take the poorest, do not take the poorest. Census offered in this bill as well as in the one for the supplemental, are realistic, precise and just and are approaching the poverty line. In our struggles and activities, we go towards the goal of protecting and involving people living below the poverty line. Let's take it one step at a time. The proposal until the proposal, the proposal, as proposed, is agreed on by the mosaic of the fight against poverty. Believe me, it's the only way to go and know, gray are the colors of poverty and do not bring joy into life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5591	So I have to say right away in the beginning that I am very sad that the man who was in the camp for this state means that you do not allow him to express his opinion regardless of who is in his club, whether his sentence went out of date, it has nothing to do with Mr. Mlinarić, so this is unfortunate both from colleagues Bačić and from you, colleague Bedekovic. Mr. Bacic, be parliamentary and let me state my position because I know you'd rather no one say anything. Here, at the beginning of this presentation, you could use that anthological “What say, what message do you send? ” Not a few hours after the parliamentary opposition sent a proposal for a decision to set up an investigative commission, our prime minister appeared to announce to the Parliament and the people that there would be nothing to do with the investigation committee because, according to the prime minister, "there is no problem with the work of the DORH, the IRS, our judiciary and other institutions." This was said on the same day that the state attorney who wrote the indictment for Agrokor, submitted a motion for resolution because her husband had found 4.5 million kunas of money allegedly related to the Janaf affair. The prime minister does not want the Investigative Commission and orders that "the parliamentary opposition take advantage of the parliamentary committees for discussion". That's how the Prime Minister referred us to the Justice Committee. I remind you, it was the same committee that discussed the appointment of Chief State Attorney Jelenic, who had been the dead-cold committee and the Parliament's silenced that he was a member of some Paramason case. The prime minister has instructed the opposition to be held at the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy, which is the body to which I am president and which currently has 5 of the 11 members required, so there is no quorum to meet and decide. But I don't blame the Prime Minister for not knowing these things, he said he didn't know anything anyway. However, it would be good if his constituenciesman Bacic informed him and conveyed his attention to be familiar with the facts and not to be embarrassed in this way in front of the media. Even more than the prime minister's ignorance, his incomprehension comes into his eyes that it is not he who decides what the Parliament will investigate. In parliamentary democracies such as Croatia, parliamentary investigations and investigative commissions are the most powerful means of testing anomalies in the system of government. Parliamentary investigations serve to investigate the abuse of powers of those who correspond to parliament and no other body is as powerful as the Investigative Commission. The investigating committee shall be called upon by witnesses who are obliged to respond and truthfully state the facts that are being determined and all of this under the threat of serious monetary and prison sentences if they falsely show up. We are now looking at the development of discussions involving different so - called so - called debates. Experts interpreting whether this commission has set its objectives too broad or too narrow. I will immediately say that all these discussions are irrelevant. They are only covering the prime minister's decision to shut down the investigative commission before it was even established. Let's be honest, this isn't a debate about law and we don't need fiscal arguments. The debate on the commission is a political debate and it only comes down to one question, whether or not we want to deal with corruption. Or even more plastic, which hides the ignorant Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5628	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Sandra Bencic will hold the position of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5629	Thank you. I will talk today about Prime Minister Plenkovic's position and the majority in this house. According to the establishment of an investigative committee aimed at establishing the illegality of obstruction and other illicit influences on independent investigations and the processing of corruption cases of organised and economic crime. What did Mr. Plenkovic say yesterday? He said the commission put the investigation too wide. The commission, as I have stated, has a very clear and narrow focus that comes down to the leak of information and the impact of politics on investigations and the judiciary. However, the Law on the Investigation Commissions says that the proposal for the establishment of the commission must include, apart from the definition of public interest, the research goal I have set, the field of research and the round of questions that will be covered by research, not one question, but a round of questions contrary to what Mr Plenkovic said and an entire area. What's the area? The area is fighting corruption. It's too wide for you. Furthermore, Mr Plenkovic also told other HDZ gentlemen that the commission is questioning the independence of the judiciary. That's not true. The independence of the judiciary does not imply a ban on the supervision of the work of the judicial system. However, HDZ complains that it is not a commission, which does not deal with an individual case, in a specific case. Why is he complaining about it? Because Mr. Plenkovic wanted to sell us the doorknob 22. He wanted us to deal exclusively with Janaf, then to start the trial and according to the Law on Investigation Commissions, the investigative commission should stop working at the moment because it is a case which is before the judiciary and the judiciary. Yes, gentlemen, if we were to work individual cases at that time, then it would be about tampering the parliaments into the independence of the work of the courts, but when we deal with the system, and that's what hurts you the most then it's not about tampering with the judiciary, it's about improving the whole system to have the capacity to fight corruption. Namely, what's the one thing that hurts you the most? It pains you that when it comes to an individual case of what you would like, the prime minister can always say that it is an individualised guilt, that the party cannot be held accountable for the actions of the individual, but if we analyze what we want, and these are the systematic shortcomings in the fight against corruption and organised crime, then it would appear that the HDZ has created and maintained a system that is weak and unresistant to corruption and political influences and is therefore unable to resolve any corruption affair to the end. And that's why HDZ is finally afraid. That is why the prime minister, after saying he would support the committee yesterday after seeing the decision and seeing the intention that this commission would not want to be a public show but really explore the whole system and its resilience to corruption, has doubled its tail and decided not to support the commission. Another statement by Mr Plenkovic as an argument why such an investigative committee is not needed. This one is my favorite, says Prime Minister Plenkovic, the institutions are functioning. This statement came to me in rank, and then the swing wrapped up the chocolate, so the institutions are working, and we have one weekly that cited more than 100 corruption affairs discovered in the last ten years, only a few of which ended up in a final verdict. I'll list just some INA-MOL affairs by Ivo Sanader, which, HDZ, Veronica Zuzul and Sanader's affair, no epilogue, the Camioni Berislav Rončević affair, the HEP-TLM affair also has no epilogue, the FIMI-media again HDZ, the Tisak Miroslav Kutle Age affair, failed to resolve the case in 20 years. The KUScevic affair, the Krš-Padjene affair, now Janaf affair with all the affairs and 60 others were directly involved with HDZ members. But the prime minister claims that institutions are functioning, that we do not need an investigative commission and that everything can be resolved through the parliamentary committees. Another argument about how institutions operate, a few million kuna cash was found in the deputy state attorney's apartment. Institutions operate in the fight against corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5721	Thank you, too. It is now up to Mr Branko Bačić to present the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club. One moment, one moment. Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5722	Thank you, well-respected chairman, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. How is it possible that a man who is not a parliamentary representative, who is the spokesman for the HDZ, Mr. Kabok, comes in here and briefings from Mr. Bačić? How is it possible, how did you make it possible for Mr. Chairman to march loyally? Whether all clubs and all parliamentary representatives and their employees can enter the assembly and briefing parliamentary representatives, this has come to every level of behavior within the assembly. You don't let us discuss it, and HDZ employees don't. Staff paid by HDZ and Andrej [[Intruder: Time.]] Not knowing, you pay them... [[No, I don't give because it's...]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5723	'Cause, because, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. Mrs. Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5724	What does that mean to me?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5725	Mrs. Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5726	What does that mean to me?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5727	And 10 seconds more than you were allowed to say. Here you go, Mrs. Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5728	It is also an injury to the Rules of Procedure, Article 293a, which is complemented by the Rules of Procedure, which makes it impossible for more than 1/4 MPs and no one else to enter the Assembly, so this part of where we work is injured by the entry of the spokespersons themselves. I would like to point out once again that we as parliamentary representatives are not allowed to take part in the sittings neither in the assembly room [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Or beyond it. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5729	Thank you very much. The same answer as Mr. Bull, if that's how you're right, I apologize but I haven't seen it. Here you go, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5730	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I understand the anxiety of the opposition they have been working on for weeks can't pass in the Croatian Parliament because they made an act that can be written by a person who lives there at 47, 8, 9th year last century who doesn't know that in the meantime the Croatian state was created as a democratic state in which the judicial authority is independent, in which there is a clear distinction and division between legislative, executive and judicial authorities. It is not clear to them that the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament will not make a decision that is illegal and unconstitutional, that we will not allow you, and therefore you are nervous and jump here with violations of the Rules of Procedure on things that are below the level of parliamentary representatives. First of all, the Law on the Investigative Commission is very clear within the framework of this law and within the Constitution, the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament can make such a decision on the establishment of an investigative commission against which HDZ has no objection. However, if anyone is doing so, if any political party, if any government in Croatia is working to combat crime and corruption, this government is doing so because it has allowed full independence to the State's Attorney's office, USKOK and the police, regardless of the name of the perpetrator of the crime, it does not interest either the Prime Minister or anyone in the ruling majority involved. And he's not interested in reconnaissances. Well, gentlemen, we heard from the SDP ranks that until yesterday, the former Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior knew everything about every moment of the reconnaissance, and it became normal for the large opposition Democrats to call the Prime Minister to the point that he wants to break the law and does not want to be informed about the reconnaissances according to whoever these reconnaissances are related to. It's still you, it can't regain consciousness. You would be invited by the Croatian judges because you have elected parliamentary representatives here at the Croatian Parliament to tell you about the cases they are conducting and you want to process the Croatian judiciary and the Constitutional Court and the DORH in advance. So in a normal democratic state where there is independence of the judicial authority, independence of the state's attorney, the independence of the police, it is unfortunately not clear to you, and we have to teach you that unfortunately. We must instruct you from the ruling majority because we will not make a decision that cannot pass a constitutional assessment at any serious, serious institution, a judicial institution not to tell the Constitutional Court. When a judge in Croatia commits a tight violation he responds to the State Judicial Council, not to the Croatian Parliament's commission, if he commits a criminal offence, he responds to Croatian courts as well as to any other Croatian citizen, if a single state attorney, deputy state attorney, county or state attorney, he responds to the body that is in charge, and this is the State Attorney's Council, not the investigative committee. If a state lawyer commits a criminal offence, he responds to Croatian courts as well as any other citizen, and all those who follow a little know that there have been in Croatia and judicial proceedings at courts in Croatia and against state lawyers and against judges. If that's not clear to you gentlemen, I'm very sorry. I said it yesterday, and I'm going to repeat it, this kind of power to one legislative body had no OZNA, no police, no party police at the time of the former state, and you need to be aware of it, and you have to make an act, which will form an investigative commission that is in accordance with the law and the Constitution if you know how to write it. We don't mind, though we'll be the first to advocate that anything is possible, which is in accordance with the Constitution and the law investigates, but not in this way. You should be aware of that. It is strange to me that people who call here for great patriotism, sovereignty, who say that this government does not lead enough about the interests of the Republic of Croatia to stand behind the authors of this text who wanted first of all to call a referendum on Croatia's accession to NATO, this is what I am telling you dear friends from the Most and Croatian sovereigns and from the Homeland Movement, you have been standing behind the text of the author who asked for the collection of signatures so that Croatia does not go to NATO, which says that the Croatian state is working against refugees and that they should be left in the space of the Republic of Croatia. You've stood behind such articles. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5731	Thank you very much. I asked around, and I found out that Mr. Bull and Mrs. Bull were here. Bencic was right, just a little bit, that they were right, and I'm warning all the employees of the Parliament who don't, who are not from the secretariat of the session not to enter the assembly. So you were right, I'm sorry, I didn't see that. We have a further breach of the Rules of Procedure. Yes, here you go, Mr. Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5732	Dear colleague Bačić, if anyone knows Art. 238, if anyone knows how OZNA works, you HDZ know because there are no more ex-partners anywhere but HDZ and uboscians. [[Employee Radin: Article, article.]] And if we're talking about the Croatian judiciary, you've excavated it, you're with your godmothers, and now you're afraid to ask. Well, the Croatian Parliament, you chose the attorney general. Why can't we ask certain questions?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5733	Thank you, Mr. Grmoya, thank you. I said I'd give, I'm sorry, I said I'd give you some warning about the replica and I'd give you a warning because it was a replica. Let's move on, no one else, right? No, no? Bull? No, good. Thank you, too. And finally, Mr. Milorad Pupovac will be the position of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5765	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In some sense, I'm going to continue what my colleague Hrelja said about the spread of indifference and the destruction of social wealth, in this case natural wealth. It's about the phenomenon I was already talking about from this pay phone a few years ago based on the notifications we received from the local population in the Sisak-Moslavina and Karlova County area, about the widespread appearance of illegal forest cutting and devasting forest funds in the area of these two counties, and the destruction of local roads that serve people for normal communication. The reason for the re-unification is the memo we have received in recent days, which exhaustively informs about what is happening in one municipality in the Sisak-Moslavina County where on the one hand the devastation of forests continues, on the other hand the usurpation under threats and buying people under threat also continues, and that those who should worry about it, which are Croatian forests, is the MUP, obviously still do not take the necessary action to stop it. I'll try to give you a picture of the situation. There are almost 190 thousand hectares under the forest in the area of the carlovacka County. In the area of Sisak-Moslavina County about or almost 95 thousand areas under the forest. Of these areas, about 20% of the forests are private, and about 80% of the forests are state-owned. In this area, Croatia's forests are allowed almost between 350 and 400 000 m3 of forest. There's no record of illegal and illegal deforestation. It is a huge amount and it is a huge income for Croatian forests, only for Sisak-Moslavina County it is about 160 million kuna per year. Let 60 million go to salaries and other costs at 311 employees in the Croatian Forests Administration in Sisak. Where does the other 100 million go? There is no development, there is no serious shaming, there is little or no investment in the devastated roads, and now the question is how to change and stop this trend? At the same time, those who should get, the forests that exist in that area, which should be obtained to develop, unfortunately, are hard to get because there is also a system that has been established, and by which one can get, others cannot get. The illegal logging of forests is particularly expressed in the areas of municipalities where the majority Serb population was or where private forest ownership is mostly in the hands of Serbs. The model is simple. One plot of several mornings is purchased, and a whole board is cut off with all the ones someone tipped off that the owner isn't close. The one who afterwards gets the drone and controls, as we could see in the contribution of a television show, controls the local population, and Croatian forests and police have no money to monitor the drone as someone illegally and with the help of different people continues the devastion of Croatian forests regardless of whether it is state property or private, these are Croatian forests. We call on the authorities from this place to stop it because it is the destruction of one of the most significant resources Croatia has.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5766	Thank you very much, time. You have two injuries, we have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. He's got his first injury, no response to any of the Rules of Procedure's injuries. Uh, first one's got Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5767	Thank you very much. A fellow Pupovac has been injured by an article. 238 of our Rules of Procedure where he spoke of destroying natural resources. I would just say here to my colleague Pupovac that the destruction and culture of the municipality of Civarians, where in the power of the SDSS and HDZ, where the centuries-old flat bridge from the Middle Ages is collapsing, our history literally collapses, so he would ask you what's next? The Church of St. John's will be incarcerated in that municipality. A rescue and maybe a plastic window? We'll stop it because the damage is done. Where's your chief? [[/Intruder: You're missing nice, weather.]] from the SDSS in the HDZ coalition. [[Intruder: Time, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5768	Time and warning because it was a replica and a reminder because it was a replica, you know that yourself, I don't have to tell you. Mr. Zekanovic, here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5769	Dear Vice President, of course. 238. Here, Pupovac forgot that he is in the ruling coalition, so he urged himself and Andrej Plenkovic to solve the problem in the government. So you're in the power of Mr. Pupovac and nice on the government warn the Prime Minister of this problem and he'll solve it himself. Do not pretend that you are here opposition when you are in power or this may be all expensive one play to hire another SDSSman perhaps in Croatian forests which will solve this problem the way you wish.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5770	Thank you very much. You know you deserve a warning. Here's a seat. ... And I have to warn you because if you're looking for a break, you can say that. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Pupovac, I suggest you take a break. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I have to give you a warning if you're not looking for a break. Okay. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Please. You have a warning. Thank you. Let's move on. We move on to: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements. Excuse me, sir. Mr. Bull, don't do that. If you have something to say, you're looking for a break, but don't do that. I gave Mr. Pupovac a warning. Two seconds of relaxation before we move on. Okay? One, two. Thank you very much. It was the first morning replica. Can you hear me, Mr. Thunderbolt? It was the first morning replica, not the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on. - Mrs. Crescent. Romana Nikolic delivers the position of SDP's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u5794	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. We're marking a children's week this week. The aim of its marking and informing children and adults about children's rights, to encourage participation in activities that develop knowledge, skills and feelings of value in children. Supporting the proper development of children, expanding awareness of the importance of involving children in the local community and awareness of working with children in general, whether professional or volunteer. Children's rights are guaranteed by the Convention and should be the basis for any treatment of children and young people without exception, so when it comes to risk groups of children and young people. The real risk groups of children particularly came into focus during this year when facing a global pandemic of coronary viruses when we started talking more about domestic violence and all other risk factors whose intensity increased during the epidemic, which greatly negatively affect children's development and growth. As a society, we have a duty to enable safe and happy growing up to every child. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to ensure equal opportunities for the growth and development of children, regardless of whether they are in rural or urban areas, in less or more developed areas of Croatia, and regardless of economic opportunities or difficulties. Along with regular education, which this year has more than ever required the efforts and engagement of educators, vulnerable groups need additional assistance and support. One such is the social service of a half-day stay for particularly risky groups of children, such as children with behavioral problems. A half-day stay as an extra-institutional form of care for children and young people with behavioral problems enables systematic assistance and support to develop the skills and skills they need for everyday life, directs them and reduces the frequency of unwanted behaviors, encourages the creation of new interests and quality human relations and friendships, while not separating them from the familiar social environment, does not separate them from the family and does not bring children from the home for education, which still carries a negative connotation in our society. Examples of good practice show that half-day residents are a successful treatment that is a form of prevention of institutionalisation in foster homes or penal institutions in the future, which is why such forms of support and assistance to children and young people should be financed and supported in particular. It has been an exceptional pleasure to see that extra-institutional forms of care for children in the Slavonia area and that providers of such social services are doing their job responsibly and professionally. Last month I had the opportunity to attend the opening of a half-day stay for children with behavioral problems in the municipality of Podgorica where the need and the designed solution was recognised by the organization of the Civil Society of the Centre for Missing and Abused Children, which already implements the social service of half-day stay in the area of 5 Slavonian counties. The service was implemented through a project funded by the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, Family and Social Policy. I would like to commend the funding of social services through projects, but I would also like to point out that a longer continuity of financial support is necessary in order to see concrete effects and results of work. I would call on local and regional units to contribute to the development of social services so that everyone together can work on a better future for our children and thus the better future for society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8188	Let's move on. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Credit Institutions, first reading, P.Z. No. 32 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Proposer's representative is Mr. Stjepan Curaj State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Does he want to take a word for it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8189	Thank you, Vice President. Dearly respected MPs, respected MPs. Today you are facing a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Credit Institutions, which complies with the acquis of the EU, or more precisely with a package of measures to reduce the risks of so-called risk. Risk reduction measures shortened RRM. In fact, the RRM package continues to reform the EU banking system with a view to preserving its resilience with further strengthening the bank's ability to bear possible costs. Further implementation of the remaining elements of the regulatory framework, which has been adopted by the Basel Committee on Bank Control and the Financial Stability Committee, continues. It also continues to maintain financial stability by strengthening the capital needs of banks and measures to improve the creditworthiness of banks, i.e. reducing the burden on smaller banks by improving capacity to finance small and medium-sized enterprises and infrastructure projects. This is a controlled work in view of the past financial crisis, primarily in 2008 which is now wanted by this EU-level package to be better regulated and provided by the financial sector itself. The package itself consists of two regulations and two Directives that amend eu regulations which have been transposed into the Republic of Croatia between other regulations and this relevant Credit Institutions Act. Otherwise, the law in question regulates and regulates the conditions for the establishment and termination of the work of credit institutions based in the Republic of Croatia, the supervisory of their operations and the conditions under which legal persons established outside the Republic of Croatia may provide banking and/or financial services in the Republic of Croatia. I would also like to point out that in July of this year, the Republic of Croatia entered the European Course Mechanism, so to speak. RM2 and the establishment of close cooperation between the CNB and the European Central Bank has become a participating Member State in a single supervisory mechanism, which is particularly important in relation to this law in question and the single rehabilitation mechanism on which there will be a little more words under the next item of the agenda. I think given this time in particular that it is absolutely one of the successes of Croatia itself which has managed to meet all the criteria. The decision on the close cooperation of the CNB with the European Central Bank has come into force 14 days since its publication in the Official Journal of the EU on 27 July, and the beginning of the close cooperation that you will later have with regard to these amendments is just now just 1 October 2020 before the full week. Under the Single Supervisory Mechanism, the European Central Bank is responsible for the effective and consistent functioning of the Single Supervisory Mechanism and has exclusive competence over all eu-area banks. It directly controls significant credit institutions, and national supervisory authorities, in this case the most CNB, directly oversees less significant credit institutions in cooperation with it. So, common only is the question of who directly controls large ones, it is in this case the European Central Bank while the CNB directly monitors less, but all of them participate in this process together. Thus, since 1 October of this year, the European Central Bank has been overseeing and greater credit or significant credit institutions and will also be responsible for issuing and withdrawing authorisation for the provision of bank services and for assessing the acquisition of qualifying shares in banks compared to all credit institutions within the already mentioned single supervisory mechanism, which means these smaller institutions. These supervisory tasks are otherwise known as colloquial joint procedures. As regards the list published on 11 September this year, the European Central Bank will directly oversee 8 such financial and credit institutions, namely Zagreb Bank, Business Bank, Erste & Steirmarkische Banka, Raiffeisen Banka, Sberbanka, Adiko Banka and two residential savings banks, PBZ and Raiffeisen. In general, the decision on whether the bank is significant or not is based on its size means the total value of the assets, its importance for the economy of the country in which it is located or the EU as a whole, its cross-border activities and the fact itself whether it has requested or received direct financial support from the European Stabilisation Mechanism or the European Financial Stability Fund. Otherwise, the European Central Bank regularly examines the importance of all banks in participating countries and the status of banks may be changed for reasons related to regular business or for one-off events such as mergers or accessions, so each year the banks are determined to comply with all these criteria. The Croatian National Bank remains in charge of overseeing less significant credit institutions, making proposals for decisions on joint procedures and supervisory tasks that do not enter into prudential supervision. What's absolutely better for us is the fact that, for example, for large banks, we now have an introduction to their entire business, and in fact we want to point out that in previous circumstances we didn't know everything our banks were doing, or we knew everything our banks were doing, but we didn't have or we had very little information about what their queens were doing. So this actually enabled the exchange between supervisory authorities and opened up access to all information on the business of a group at EU level, there we had in this House, i.e. in the Chamber of Discussions on who the bank owners are and how we operate at EU level. Now, these amendments and directives, by implementing Directives and regulations, are about to give the CNB information. In particular, this proposal brings some of the most important next news, therefore, the licensing obligation for parent financial holding and parent mixed financial holding company which is a member of the group of credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia is prescribed. Also, credit institutions based in the Republic of Croatia, which is a member of a third country group operating through more than one EU institution and whose total value of assets is equal to or greater than 40 billion euros, are obliged to have an intermediate parent company in the EU. The bill also prescribes a licensing obligation as a credit institution for an investment company whose assets exceed 30 billion euros on an individual or group level. Since banks are required to maintain a sufficient level and quality of capital in order to deal with stress scenarios in the future, the order and conditions of imposing capital requirements or safeguards of capital are further specified. According to the applicable law, the CNB is the competent authority to identify other systemically important credit institutions, so-called ‘. The OSV of credit institutions and their review is ongoing... an institution whose results are always announced at the end of the year, and so will be in December this year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to data, they can only mention, from December 2019 and credit institutions, i.e. systemically important credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia, Zagreb Bank, Privredna banka, Erste & Steirmarkische banka, Raiffeisen, OTP, Adiko and HPB. For the purpose of harmonising with decision-making procedures within the already mentioned single supervisory mechanism in which the European Central Bank participates, these are so-called ‘the European Central Bank’. common procedures, the conduct of CNB credit institutions shall be coordinated with the procedures of the ECB. In accordance with the established definition, small and simple credit institutions, whose value of assets is equal to or less in equivalent to one billion euros, credit institutions are, in fact, made available to that category by the following facilitating regulatory requirements. The Supervisory Board shall not have the required number of independent members, it shall not have a Receipts Committee and a Committee on Appointments, and may combine the Risk Board with the Audit Committee provided that members have adequate knowledge, skills and expertise. Certain provisions relating to the policy of reception, including discretionary pension benefits, shall not apply. The use of a standardised methodology or simplified standardised methodology is given in the calculation of interest risk arising from non-traded transactions. What is extremely important in this and extends these changes to the role of the CNB as supervisor in the part of determining the circumstances relating to money laundering or terrorist financing in the credit institution. In that case, credit institutions will be ordered, if assessed as necessary, to provide adequate supervisory measures and to inform the competent supervisory authority and the European Banking Supervisory Authority. One more thing of the changes is certainly what is important to me to stress that the introduction of gender neutral policies of reception, in particular in art. 152. From now on, the CNB will be obliged to collect data in gender-received income differences. There is also the introduction and reporting of persons in a special relationship, it expands, the definition of a family member is expanded, the definition of a connected person is also specified. In addition, provisions on forced liquidation and bankruptcy of credit institutions are deleted from the Credit Institutions Act as it will be subject to the arrangement of separate laws on forced liquidation, as well as provisions on the inaccessibility of deposits to be subject to the regulation of the new law on the deposit insurance system, in fact, which aims to protect creditors through the maximum charge and what you have certainly been aware of in the past and in the history of bankruptcy and liquidation proceedings that lasted and for ten years, this proposal would now limit this to a maximum of 3 years. Finally, this bill continues to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis. It also regulates the conduct of credit institutions and CNBs in the context of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the Single Supervisory Mechanism and the Unity Rehabilitation Mechanism. To that end, the ECB completed a comprehensive evaluation of 5 Croatian banks carried out in June 2020 after the Republic of Croatia submitted a request for the establishment of precisely this close cooperation between the CNB and the ECB. The overall assessment found that none of the banks covered had any capital gaps because their regular capital rates were not lower than the minimum rates used in the quality review of assets and stress resistance testing. What the banking union brings to Croatia is the added credibility and security arising from the equal application of supervisory and rehabilitation rules and practices, given the high degree of financial integration with the euro area, such a uniform approach contributes to greater security and transparency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8190	Thank you. Stay here, Mr. Bull, if you had already said you were looking, but I'd only be before the replica if you could, you're the first one to reply, just to do the replica, and then, yes, you can, don't you agree? Okay. Here you go, Mr. Bull's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8191	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8192	A microphone, a microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8193	Can we get the time back now?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8194	I'll give you 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8195	Okay, here on behalf of the club, I'd like to sue for a 10-minute break on behalf of the MOST Club to talk about this Credit Institutions Act, which is in line nonstop with European directives, but I must once again warn that in the last term, this assembly has passed a unanimous law on loans agreed in the Republic of Croatia, and in fact, international loans, which are not actually legal creditors, it's so-called. Lex Scibola. However, neither the Ministry of Finance nor the CNB which is least popular, the Croatian National Bank is doing anything. You don't respect the laws, so do you hear the yaks of those savings-credited, these people who have been robbed by these savings credit cooperatives, Raiffeisen, a savings credit cooperative that doesn't work in Austria, who doesn't do it in Hungary? It's our people who have been thrown illegally on a beggar stick. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8196	I gave you 20 seconds more, Mr. Bull, we can go on replicas right now or we'll give you 10 minutes break. How about right now? This wasn't a replica, you said you were looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8197	This was a replica, you asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8198	Well, you asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8199	No, no, you said that...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8200	I said it, but then you asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8201	Well, then it's my fault, isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8202	You got a little carried away, yeah. We can go further, so now you have a replica. Come on, Mr. Bull, you have a replica. Mr. Stephen Curaj, come here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8203	Okay, here I would just ask you one more time, why don't you respect yourself as a Croatian government, Ministry of Finance, Croatian non-national bank, why don't you respect what the Croatian Parliament adopted unanimously in the last term, the law on meaning where they are, lex Škibola, where these illegal international loans have been declared invalid. Also in the case of Swiss, we're just talking about credit institutions and how to capitalize them. These banks in us, distinguished state secretaries and you were a parliamentary representative here and you voted for the law, which is why the Croatian State, you, you, the Ministry of Finance, favour the illegal foreign Raiffeisen savings credit union from Austria? That can't be in Hungary. Why can't they rob the Croatian people in Hungary, why they're moving people, why their members are killing themselves because of these Raiffeisen harmful cooperatives? and why Croatia, the Ministry of Finance does not respect the decision taken in the assembly. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8204	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8205	I'm thanking you. Thank you, Reverend Bulj, for these comments are not the subject of this law. We certainly cannot comment on how many applications and procedures were previously illegal, they are being resolved and, of course, that the ministry consistently implements all the laws and instructions that comply with the positive regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8206	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8207	In breach of Rules of Procedure 238, you do not respect the unanimous decision of the Croatian Parliament that the illegal loans of Raiffeisen are savings credit cooperatives that extract money and rob our people and their property. People are literally killing themselves and their family members, and we as a parliament as an institution have unanimously passed that law in the past term and you State Secretary and you from HDZ and then the opposition, unanimously. So who is stronger than the Croatian Parliament, do lobbyists in clubs in which are your former members and here [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] And Milorad Pupović, of course, I'm sorry I didn't ask him earlier. [[Intruder: Time, time, time, time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8208	Time, time, time. You know for a fact that it's a warning, there's a warning. Now Mrs. Peovic, Katarina Peovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8209	Well, my question is about this law, which is obviously just another one of its adaptations to European regulation, but here it's about some stress, some of the shocks that need to be overcome by the new regulation, I would warn you that the European Central Bank's report has shown that there are no stress from banks, but there are citizens who are really in huge debt that we are not going to settle these laws that completely ignore any sovereign, autonomous policy, monetary policy, and here we see that this is just another step towards the introduction of the EUR. But a concrete question, let's say, about this, in what way he's even thinking about getting rid of these stress for banks and some credibility of banks if this is a new regulatory framework, and we saw that Basel 2, Basel 1 also had a reaction and the results of banking fraud, as well as in Croatia. The Rijeka banks. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8210	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8211	Thank you, dear Vice President. Therefore, we are talking about testing scenarios, which are actually stress testing scenarios, regular and basic capital rates, so different scenarios are being done just so that there is no spillover of the potential risk on citizens to creditors, so that all banks can regularly service their obligations and that we do not have a situation, and especially the European Commission is careful to ensure that any possible insolvency or insolvency of the banks themselves that would endanger the financial market. So it's stress, as such a colloquy is a stress test that is used to express in the Anglo-Saxon and banking systems in which you actually want to check all the possibilities of happening on the market and whether the bank can deal with them exactly as you mentioned in order to avoid any risks to the end-user of the user of banking services.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8212	Thank you very much. Mrs. Devereaux. Peric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8213	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. Well, I would like to point out once again how important it is that the cooperation between the CNB and the European Bank, the central bank, is, in fact, being supervised by Bulgarian and Croatian banks since 1 October of this year, and there are also savings. So what we had a problem in previous periods will significantly reduce just all of these possible and potential frauds that were happening, which should actually be a contribution to our banking system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8214	Thank you very much, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8215	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed, honourable representative of Peric. That is why we are absolutely getting a wider scope with this, a wider possibility of protecting against the risks of our credit institutions, so not only of the banks, but of all those doing these jobs that we talked about earlier, and it is precisely the purpose of uniting the single and supervisory mechanism, later and the Sanantia mechanism, that this risk is reduced to a minimum and that we get insight into the business and what the owners of our banks in Croatia are doing, which we haven't had so far. Therefore, the European Central Bank conducts direct supervision of large institutions, the CNB over smaller ones, but together this does not mean that the central bank does not also exercise control over these smaller ones, nor that the CNB does not participate in the supervision and mechanisms itself in large ones. So, with this, we are expanding the ability to monitor the collection of all relevant data, and thus to secure all savings roles, of course the very active bank and those of our citizens who are users.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8216	Thank you in the end, Mr. Lalovec's last line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8217	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you initially said that the CNB is now expanding their powers and they are now taking over control to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. It used to be done by the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering at the Ministry of Finance. Now I'm wondering if there's any overlapping going to be a CNB function to prevent money laundering. Are we aware that there was any information in public somewhere about a year ago for some of our banks, do you have any information? And secondly, what will be the co-operation between the Ministry of Finance and the CNB, or who will now be in charge of these main activities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8218	Thank you. Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8219	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Lalovac, an absolutely good question to clarify. So here, the role is being expanded, the CNB has so far played a role in supervision, only to expand the role of the National Bank as a supervisor in the part of determining the circumstances which, which you mentioned, are also referring to money laundering and terrorist financing, so there is no separation of so far functions. The Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Corruption continues to act either by application or by, by itself, on its own. But the events mentioned here that were also in March this year states that the CNB can now independently extend its supervisory powers over all credit institutions in Croatia, and parallel work is separated and functions such as so far have been related to some illegal actions that the office must then detect and process.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8220	Thanks pretty, no more replicas, you can go to the place. Before I skipped to say that the debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, so now I ask if anyone would speak on behalf of the Committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, the first Mr. Boris Lalovec to speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8221	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. We have two laws before us today, harmonising with the EU directive. The first is the Law on Credit Institutions, the second is the Law on Resuscitation of Credit Institutions, so I'm pied to why I don't combine the debate is actually so many these two laws are intertwined and are very important for the Croatian financial system as well. Very briefly, why did Europe go into such a law? So after the 2008 crisis, after the banks were first in America, and after that in Europe, they experienced a complete collapse and one recession that has not been seen since 1922, Europe said no more, you will no longer be making your crazy business on financial markets, it will no longer be paid by taxpayers, it will no longer be paid by citizens. And Europe is actually somewhere in 2008-2009, in the beginning of 2010 it started in the regulation of financial institutions on the European market and we will now create a unique mechanism that if banks or the financial sector fail in the future it will no longer be a burden for taxpayers. Why? Because everything that happened was in 2008. It went to the burden of taxpayers, or to the burden of the finance budget of the Ministry of Finance or Government, and what happened then? The debt of the state has grown enormously. The debts of the state, all the debts of the state went to heaven, by 20% to 30% the public debt of all states and then there was a change in the entire regulation and said now we'll actually bring that if there is a problem in the future with financial institutions, you'll do it, your creditors will pay for it on your burden, on your burden. In the end, it is actually trying to bring into order financial institutions that have more assets than it has, than it creates the euro area GDPR. So only banks in the Eurozone have 22,000 euros in assets, 22 billion euros in bank assets in Europe. The EU, or the euro area, is creating 15 thousand billion, so banks have more assets than GDP is created in Europe. What is the situation in Croatia? Same thing. The size of banks or active banks in Croatia is about 408 to 410 billion kuna, 410 billion kunas, all assets of banks in Croatia. How much does Croatia's GDP create? If we lose our GDP, we'll get to 360, 370 billion. Now the question is, how do some who are ultimately stronger than the state get in line? And it's one of these laws that banks that have centres and because the introduction it very well said the secretary of state will follow the queen and will monitor their business branches. Is there a situation in Croatia? 90% of banks in Croatia are active in foreign ownership, so queens in Italy, Austria in other countries and out of these 410 billion kuna assets, now the ECB will directly monitor and monitor around 330,340 billion assets. This is your Zagreb bank which has 113 billion assets, PBZ somewhere around 84, 85, third Erste 61, 62, OTP see here is not OTP, they are together they are fourth and more Raiffeisen with 30 etc. means the total assets of their banks which will now be directly controlled by the ECB by around 330 billion or around 80% of the total bank assets. Why? It is precisely to enable them to find it impossible to pass from one country to another, that when a particular disturbance occurs in a mother bank, there should be no disturbance in the Republic of Croatia. It's very important for Croatia if there is a disturbance in a country outside, what does the queen do first? First, it withdraws money from the region, or from other countries, and then there may be a disturbance in that other country. That's why I was saying it would be good to unite this debate on recovery, because then there's a problem of savings and a problem of spilling over how then savings can get their money. And for that reason, in this context, I think that not only is it that certain supervision has been made that they now have control of the entire business is it very difficult to monitor financial transactions between the queens, between banks and so... because when we are already going to the euro or when Europe is set up for the euro has a currency together then you can't actually have the stability of the state if you don't have financial institutions that trade with these euros or which are the biggest currency traders, you have to have them under control. Is there then certain shocks occur, and therefore the European Commission, or the EU, has also said that we are expanding the EU issue or banking union that they want to implement by 2024 or in the future to stabilise and prevent individual countries, and Croatia is a small country compared to the entire banking system. So Croatian GDP is 50 billion euros, 50 billion euros in GDP. Banks in Europe have 22,000 billion euros. Croatia is extremely vulnerable to withdrawing money from their queens from Croatia, extremely vulnerable. We see that any disturbance on the financial market in Croatia would reflect on both savings and destabilise the economy. And that's why it matters if we can't, we don't have enough capital if I say 90% of the system is in the euro area or the European banks area, we don't have banks from the United States, but all the banks are actually European, Italian, Austrian, there are Hungarian, etc. means mostly all those in the euro area. And because they have already entered the financial system of this European Central Bank, here I have mentioned these banks that will now directly see, and what is important will directly monitor and prevent money laundering. And there's this cooperation that seems to me not only the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering but also the CNB, and in fact the European Central Bank, that if some of these elements happen to prevent money laundering that can then be traced to the queen, then it can be traced through the entire vertical of it because it never goes that it's not some broader context. So they're changing, and that's what we're going to do in that other law when we're talking about, we're going to talk about the replacement, or we're going to talk about the existence of the resolution bodies if there's some kind of collapse of financial institutions, and that's why I said it would be good if we united so that we could have one whole picture of the links between these laws. What is a fact and this has recently shown the first crisis, the crown crisis has shown only in the European Central Bank that at Europe level you have 500 billion unpaid loans, at EU level in the euro area of 500 billion unpaid loans. Imagine how this is a possible problem if there are no very clear control mechanisms it recently announced for the second quarter of the European Central Bank the quality structure of the assets. And what the European Central Bank has done to our banks in Croatia has done to your quality, it is important that we have received one more confirmation not only of the CNB but of the European institutions that the assets managed by the Croatian banks, or that these are their principals, and that is very important in the finalisation of Croatian savings, have made further control of the quality of the property and have determined that they are passing, that they are passing, that they are passing, that they have a good ratio of capital and they have satisfied the test ultimately, from the European Central Bank they have got the green light. Because of this, I think that all these institutional ones, this is institutionalally actually strengthening the Croatian financial system that is good for the Republic of Croatia, that it is good because the whole system of financial institutions is being strengthened institutionally and that in the end, if any new crisis happens, it will not go on the burden of Croatian taxpayers anymore, and that is very important if we come to another Law on the recovery of credit institutions in which such crises will be resolved in the future and where certain deposits will be paid to protect Croatian citizens who have invested there, is it? I thank you and the SDP Club will support that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8222	Thank you, beautiful, exact like clockwork. And now Mr. Domagoj Ivan Milosevic will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club when we clear the pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8223	Good afternoon, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary with an associate. I don't have as much fire as my colleague Lalovec on this wheel, but this one was my honor to speak. So the proposal for this law today is part of a risk reduction package that brings national legislation into line with the EU acquis and continues to reform the EU banking system with a view to maintaining its resilience with the further strengthening of banks' ability to endure possible shocks, and these shocks, we have heard, are inevitable given the recession that has affected Europe and almost the whole world. As part of the risk reduction package for single EU-level action on financial holding companies, mixed financial holding companies, receipts, supervisory measures and powers, and capital conservation measures, these Regulations and directives have been adopted by the Member States under the obligation to transpose them into national legislation by 28 December of this year. The proposal for this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Credit Institutions Act has been drawn up primarily to transpose those Directives. And now I'm going to say actually what this is primarily about, what are the key changes. Therefore, the first parent financial holding company and parent mixed financial holding company which is a member of a group of credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia is obliged to apply to the CNB for the authorisation of work. Furthermore, a credit institution based in the Republic of Croatia which is a member of a third-country group operating through more than one EU institution whose total value of assets is equal to or greater than EUR 40 billion is obliged to have an intermediate parent company in the EU. A large investment company is an investment company whose assets are either non-individual or at a large level greater than EUR 30 billion. Such a company must submit a request to the CNB for the authorisation of work as a credit institution. The order and conditions of imposing capital requirements and the consequences of their infringement are specified and the requirement to cover the risk of an excessive financial leverage constitutes a parallel requirement in relation to classical capital requirements. The obligation of the CNB to prevent money laundering is laid down, the definition of a small and simple credit institution whose assets do not exceed an equivalent of EUR 1 billion is introduced. This could be very important for us because when you look at relationships not only of banks but also of entrepreneurs, the size of entrepreneurs of our businesses then in principle especially for the medium and these small and micro entrepreneurs are important these small simple credit institutions and their speed of decision-making. The operation of the CNB shall be in accordance with the procedures of the European Central Bank, by not considering any case of data exchange allowed by the regulations governing the protection of personal data. Furthermore, the same deadline of delivery of the audit report to the CNB shall be defined no later than 3 months after the end of the financial year to which the annual financial reports relate, thereby reducing the time limit for small credit institutions compared to the existing one by a month. Finally, provisions on forced liquidation and bankruptcy of credit institutions are deleted as they will be subject to the regulation of a special law that is under way. On 5 June this year, the European Central Bank completed a comprehensive evaluation of 5 Croatian banks carried out after the Republic of Croatia submitted a request for close cooperation between the European Central Bank and the CNB. The assessment included Zagrebačka banka, Privredna banka, Zagreb Erste&Steiermeerkische, OTP banka and HPB. The procedure consisted of a review of the quality of assets and stress resistance testing in accordance with the European Central Bank methodologies. The assessment found that none of the 5 Croatian banks covered had any capital gaps because their regular capital rates were not lower than the minimum rates used to review the quality of assets and stress resistance testing. At the very end let me say this last thing I said, but this law and this whole subject why I think it matters. There are more reasons. I'll be, I'll try to be brief. First of all, for the safety of the bank's savings and their trust in the banks. Today, it is never easier for those who have money in any bank within the EU to transfer money elsewhere. I will remind everyone and our citizens that the money borrowed in the banks of the economy, entrepreneurs, citizens themselves, is not someone else's money but the primary money of the savings, is a small part of the capital compared to what banks today lend to the economy or citizens anywhere in the world. Secondly, I think it is important for the stability and liquidity of the banking sector just to preserve the lending of businesses or private sector primarily and Croatian economies, given the increased risks in the recession itself. I would stress here the special importance of lending to medium and small entrepreneurs, so medium and small entrepreneurs in Croatia actually have virtually no choice but to turn to finance commercial banks. So big entrepreneurs have other tools at their disposal, but since our capital market is relatively weak, not to say half-dead, then especially when it comes to medium and small entrepreneurs, it's the only way to finance their activities. And finally, not least, given the recession we're in and who's ahead of us, I think it's crucial that we realize that what we're dealing with is the blood flow of every economy. So, the threat of the bloodstream of each organism, in this case of the economy, simply cannot bring recovery, nor can it speed up that recovery, nor can it, what we all want together, enable us to get out of recession as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8224	Thank you, too. It is now not the turn of Mrs. Sandra Bencic, who will speak on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8225	Thank you. Therefore, although the amendments and additions to this law are in line with the acquis, it should be said that, in the light of the amendments and additions proposed, it is stated that the majority is in line but that there are some other and some other amendments. When some other amendments that are not subject to harmonisation have already been approached, we believe that a major failure has failed to correct those provisions of the laws most affecting the citizens, which are precisely those concerning the sale of their debts to the claims agencies and which are specifically prescribed in Chapter 9. - the sale of credit institution placements. So that part wasn't touched. I must say that just today, the attorney general pointed out how big a problem this is for Croatian citizens and how these agencies do not fully operate in accordance with the law, and if so, when they do business according to the law that there are serious shortcomings in the regulation of their treatment of debtors. In Croatia, more demand collection agencies, B2 Capital owned by Dutch Ultim Netherlands, EOS Matrix owned by German EOS International, APS Croatia owned by the Czech company ASP Recovery, Coface Adriatic owned by Austria's Coface Central Europe Holding, McGraten Artur owned by the same name of Slovak company, Kredyt Inkaso founded by the same name Polish company. Therefore, all the largest agencies are owned by foreign companies such as these and banks, which specifically means that the profit generated on the purchase and exorbitation of the debts of our citizens is settled at the end where in the Netherlands, Germany, in the Czech Republic. So I'm just going to show you what it's about and what it's about, for example EOS Matrix had revenues of 187.3 million kuna last year. So in Croatia, hundreds of millions of kunas of revenues have demand and betting agencies, to be clear. 180.3 million kuna of which 97 million kuna gets, which specifically means that their share of profits is 51%. please ask our producers from the wood industry, from the food industry, farmers and even large companies in tourism who can achieve this in Croatia, the ratio of profits to 50%. What companies in Croatia do they have today? So it's an alleged industry that paralyzes on the debts of Croatian companies and citizens in a way that buys debts for an average of 30 % and some percent of the value of the debt, and then collects it in full and that difference between what they bought and what they charged from the debtor is their net profit. Calls for several times a day, creating pressure on citizens, along with sending the collection of claims to employers with a false claim that they have the advantage of collecting claims over all other claims, that is, how these demand collection agencies are creating extra profits in Croatia and moving it to developed EU countries. Just to remind you, of course, that EOS Matrix of all, all profits after the tax paid 70 and some million kuna, of course last year, paid to its owner of the German company and moved to Germany. So, the legitimate question arises why would the state not be able to repay its debt to citizens who, on the social economic occasion, are not able to pay off their debt by this law so that they are first invited to buy their debt by 30% of the value, or why are they allowed to pay it off in the amount in which the bank would sell it to the claiming agency? Why not prescribe that the debt can only be sold if at that same price it is offered to the debtor with a real payment plan, and only if the debtor refuses and, with his consent, the debt can be sold to the claim-paying agencies. For those who do not know the debt can be sold without knowledge and without the consent of the debtor. Just one day you'll be called by the demand agency who's become your believer. A lot of people are gonna give this moral gambling argument, okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8226	... I'll give you 20 seconds more. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8227	You don't need to, you don't need to be okay. Many will give an argument of moral gambling that citizens will not deliberately pay off debts so that they can be paid off in a small part. But here we are talking about those citizens who live on the edge of poverty who have been found unable to pay off the debt at a given time because they have neither the means nor the property to repay it. In the end, if they had a bank, they would be charged through the executive procedure and would not sell their debt to the claim-paying agencies. Also, if it isn't the greater moral gambling that allows us to sell a debt that someone can't pay off, then it really can't pay off so that someone else on someone's debt can make extra profits and export it to developed EU countries. Is that the moral gambling and practice this assembly wants to continue to support? On, as I mentioned, other institutions warn this problem, and so does the Ombudsman. I'm asking here, why hasn't the government followed her recommendations on the regulation of the work of law enforcement agencies? Furthermore, this law has failed to resolve the issue of consumer protection, i.e. the citizens of credit users, in such a way as to determine in the consumer protection chapter the legal consequences of the Franak case in such a way that, if the credit institution which has agreed with the consumer a variable interest rate of the credit agreement has not been defined in accordance with the Consumer Credit Act or is a residential credit, that credit institution should not apply an interest rate higher than the initial contract. So we want to make sure that if the parameters are not clearly set in accordance with the Consumer Credit Act, then the variable interest rate cannot go up, it can only go down. We also failed to regulate what former representative Alexic had warned in his term as well as Franak, which is that the fees agreed on at the time of the contract must not be increased during the duration of the contractual relationship. So if the fee or the cost of making the loan was not known, 2000, 1000 kn, 500 kn, non-important, it must not and cannot be increased during the contractual relationship because the tariff changes. In this way, we will really prevent that the credit agreements that are concluded with citizens, that they are not predictable as they are now, that the total cost is not clearly predictable at all times and that banks can unilaterally change some of the essential terms of the contract. All of this has taught us the Franak case thanks to Franak, which has been actively working for 10 years to solve the case and improve the conditions for achieving the financial rights of citizens, however, this Parliament is still missing it to regulate it precisely in the Credit Institutions Act. For this reason, we will not be able to support this bill or amendments to the law because it did not cover what is crucial for our citizens. At this point, we don't need to save banks because they're not threatened, at this point we need to create a framework for saving citizens because they are. Many have been fired, many will not be able to pay their commitments, we want to prevent their debt from being generated for objective reasons because this country has not provided them with either normal income or working ability, we do not want someone to paralyze and generate extra profits that move to already rich countries of central Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8228	Thank you, too. I apologize again for this distraction. Let's move on, now it's Mr. Zvonimir Troscott's turn to speak on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8229	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who look at us through the screen. The proposal for this law extends to the CNB additional competence on money laundering and terrorist financing, and would like to return to the 3rd period in fact. In 2020, when we all read in the media that the main actor of one of the biggest affairs in Croatia was the Zagreb Bank, which, according to the media, was involved in the money laundering affair and a very suspicious character, as if a Slovenian 9 had happened, which, unfortunately, has become, perhaps, a state treasure. What was known from the media was that certain members of the administration had been fired overnight for unexplainable reasons and fired by the director... The question of compliance is why would someone leave overnight from the position that is most paid in the Republic of Croatia, or why would the Director leave... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] from a company that works in one of the most regulated industries in the world? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is not only the Zagreb Bank's problem, but it should be asked a question with the work of the supervisory authorities, the CNB. because if the Zagreb Bank has indeed failed to fulfil a preventive function in preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, then it has a breach of trust in the entire financial system in the Republic of Croatia. These are issues that are of strategic importance to the entire Croatian people who are actually only interested in building a system where such potential fraud and money laundering are not imagined at all. And in that sense, it is of strategic importance that we in this House do not figure out who on the tape is the law of this type, but that we create frameworks and a system that will prevent the financing of terrorism and money laundering. Unfortunately for the affair in the third month. Neither did the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. Before this bill itself, the question arises, then did the Republic of Croatia strengthen the supervisory of its banks according to the ERM II criterion? The proposal for this law lays down the additional competence of the CNB for money laundering and terrorist financing to include in its supervisory activity an assessment of the suitability of the entire system as well as members of the management and supervisory board and to inform and accordingly submit all information to the relevant authorities. And was it done by the CNB since they already had an obligation to the relevant authorities? It's not and it won't. Then why this law? Why are we voting here, what are we reading, and why are the responsibilities of the CNB being further extended when they have not met the most important obligation so far, which is that the main actors, therefore the legislative body and all others within the system of notification of the epilogue of this related to the Zagreb Bank? From what we can see, in fact, that the creators of the political decision, that we are falling like goose chases in the Euro zone, are not actually aware that they are driving us into a crisis that has hit Greece in time, which also did not report on certain illegal activities in time, and eventually experienced an economic and social breakdown. Not only that, but it has lost monetary sovereignty on its way to this, and in fiscal terms, the Eurozone washed the floor with Greece and we do not want to do so with the Croatian people. The second topic I would like to touch on this law is something called converted and unconverted loans for the reason that in April 2020, the Zadar County Court confirmed the power of the municipal court's positive ruling in Vukovar for a converted loan and that the ruling confirmed that conversions are not an obstacle to compensation, as previously confirmed by EU cases in Hungary and Spain, where it was said that the Conversion Agreement is not an obstacle to full consumer compensation. Now, the question is whether the Croatian judges or the Croatian judiciary will continue to follow this good practice of the EU and the Zadar precedent because, according to this precedent from Zadar, PBZ had to pay 90,000 kuna on behalf of overpaid annuities, tight interest and even court costs on the basis of this ruling. In a note of the 38 financial reports of the PBZ, I reviewed this and I saw that, based on the Supreme Court's decision, they had booked 179 million kunas related to the reservation for court costs. However, what is not visible in the notes in the financial reports is whether it is only a reservation for the Consumers' Association or that reservation includes natural persons as was the case in Zadar. In that sense, on the basis of this case in Zadar, we see a potential risk at the Mosta Club, especially if these reserved costs based on the lawsuits of natural persons are not reserved, and now natural persons, as we have seen in Zadar, have the right to claim and convert and non-converted loans. On the basis of this dispute, banks will also have to book these converted loans from natural persons, which will then result in a reduction of the financial result. In addition to cutting profits, as we expect now in the 10th month, the 11th month will be affected by loans that will not be charged due to covid in the fall. Now this will also affect the more conservative approach of commercial banks in the capital market by which banks will approve loans with a very strong collateral, i.e. the ratio of the loan received and the value of the collateral will change in favour of the collateral, which actually leads to a reduction in credit activity. And why does it matter now? Reduced credit activity will affect economic movements in 2021 or reduce them. This is particularly important because the next year will also be crucial for the recovery of the Croatian economy, but also for the acquisition of those minimum criteria of the economic bar, for the achievement of the political decision to enter the Eurozone because according to the state of the institutions and the Croatian economy at the moment we could see based on the money laundering system that we are processing with this law, and also on these converted and unconverted loans Croatia is neither economically nor structurally ready for the Eurozone, and therefore we will not be able to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8230	Thank you, Mr. Troscott. It is now up to Mrs Dalia Oreshkovic to speak in front of the IP, Smart and GLAS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8231	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. What I will say in the opening statement on behalf of the Party Club with Name and Surname, Smart and Voice is somewhat encouraged by what my predecessors have said. And indeed from counterpart Boris Lalovac, we have heard more about those good sides that make a proposal for this law than we have heard from the proposer himself. By colleague Sandra Bencic, we have heard more about the problems that potentially this law adopts than was detected by the applicant in the light of his act. From fellow bridge colleagues, we have heard more about how institutions actually act, what should be their purpose and their task, where they have failed in their work so far, and he may have also drawn attention to the most important fact, which is that when a new act is adopted, then not talking to each other, so the government is not just talking to HS as a legislative body, we are not just talking to each other, but we are talking to the general public and our citizens who need to know what is actually being discussed here. In the past few days, we have talked about the problems of this country's functioning at all levels, how weak the institutions are, under-supplyed, not doing those tasks that are expected of them, and we have asked for a way to put an end to it, and I am directing the debate to understand where the source of this problem is. The source is here in the Parliament, in the quality of the normative acts, the laws that we make on the one hand, and on the other hand, in understanding our citizens, what some institutions serve in the first place. All of this contributes or does not contribute to a quality public debate, so I will now say something which is my remark and remark, and not only this law as well as the Resuscitation Act that we will discuss in the next point, this remark applies to all the normative acts that the Government has sent to this meeting of HS so far, as regards the quality of the reasoning and the introduction of that debate itself. So, in order for the legal standard to be effective, it has to be understandable to everyone. The proposal for a law cannot be referred to as a professional convention. We have no problem with implementing EU directives as a binding legal act through the laws adopted by HS. I also welcome the fact that the implementation of international standards in the Croatian legal system will strengthen our financial system, i.e. its resilience, but also strengthen capacity. But we have a problem with the content of the arguments that the government is referring to. If the language is such that it is incomprehensible, that sentences are meant to be so that they do not actually show what the problems are, what the current institutions are currently doing, and what is going to happen to individual amendments and additions of the law in the future, then we have actually excluded the public from the quality of the public debate, we have made it impossible for them to contribute to their experiences, their knowledge, to finding the best possible solution and we have made it impossible for the Parliament to actually debate because each of the exhibitors will in some way speak to themselves in accordance with their political goals, without looking together for the best possible solutions. I don't doubt that both the Credit Institutions Act and the Credit Institutions Restitution Act bring some newspapers and improvements to the Croatian legal order. But if neither we advocates in the vast majority and then the Croatian public knows at all what we are discussing, what has been happening so far in practice, what is the real assessment of the existing problems, then I am not sure if we have achieved our goal at all. My point, and then the proposal to the proposer for the future, is that, when the individual act is explained, it does indicate an reasoned assessment of the existing situation in such a way that each parliamentary representative can verify whether the allegations that the Government brings are correct. Also, it would refer to an act adopted by the Croatian Parliament, which does not seem to apply in practice, is a unique methodological nomotechnical rule for the production of acts brought by HS. There is something to be said about the explanation and the definition of concepts, so when such definitions are needed, so if there is a question of meaning, if the concepts are professional, ambiguous, if they are used in a narrow or broader sense than usual, there is nothing in this document regarding the quality and content of the reasoning of any law that any applicant makes. As long as we don't change that, I'm afraid most debates in HS will be infertile and will be aware that by using their power of the majority, the government is carrying out what it is up to, without the participation of the Croatian public as a whole. So, the basis of the democratic system is precisely based on the fact that we all participate together in the creation of solutions that depend on the quality of our lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8232	Thank you, too. Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Miroslav Skoro will speak in front of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8233	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with a colleague. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I am also sorry that these two laws, so the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions and the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions, Investment Companies, so that they are not united, at least in the debate, in a way that we speak competently about this subject because we talk about one part of the topic and then, after some time, talk about another part of the same topic is ineffective for me. Especially for the public who's following us. Here we, and in order for clarity to know this, are actually preparing Croatia for Eurozon entry and continuing to prepare, is it, since we are in the European Course Mechanism, ERM 2 so-called, so that one or two institutions in Croatia are increasing our powers and we are becoming part of a system in which our institutions are part of their ingenuity and what they collect in some of these provisions, will pass on to those institutions that are actually a new EU superstate, and thus we are definitely continuing to lose the sovereignty of the Croatian banking system. So, we're talking about institutions, we've seen today how much she can hide in HS when it comes to institutions, when it comes to trust in these institutions because we, all together, want to have a famous equality, to be equal, to always happen to what's worth one, is worth to others. Today we could see that, here, we don't have enough trust in some institution when it comes to defending our own position, but still, when it comes to accusing others, then we have confidence in those institutions. So, when it comes to the current political situation in Croatia, then we have confidence in the institutions, we have confidence in the judiciary, we have confidence in the investigative actions and those who carry them out, but if it is a decision of some legislative body that in one of its procedures has closed the procedure for a certain parliamentary representative, then we can get it out and at that point, so we have no confidence in those institutions. It's the same when it comes to finance. It is important to say that the public would know that all the laws, all the bills, all the amendments, the addition of the law, would be given at the last minute. We get a hundred.../incomprehensible/...thousands, a hundred pages we get hundreds of articles, which we should then study and perform competently especially when it comes to such important things. Unfortunately or fortunately, the Homeland Movement did not participate in the current behaviour of the government, so that we do not have in our ranks any former ministers, nor do we have former governmental and in-house officials who are well-deserved because we do not have sovereignty in our banking system, said counterpart Lalovac very well earlier, that over 80% of this activity is actually owned by foreign banks and we will hardly be able to get out of the situation in which we found ourselves. The institution, which is also the CNB that will increase its authority by adopting both of these laws, I say adoption because of what will necessarily happen, and 76 hands will be in the air is an institution that ensures the liquidity of the system in Croatia. Everywhere in the world, however, the central bank provides the liquidity of the system, is always a question after which the central bank is placed the funds to which they place it further? We have been convinced lately, in the last ten years that they have been doing it very restrictively and in some ways very irresponsible, especially when it comes to Croatian citizens. What is going to happen is that after the adoption of these two laws, we will have a situation where a single recovery committee will be formed, we will have a situation where we will have to raise one 60 billion euros that will then have to be transferred to a central fund controlled by the European Central Bank, if it is not enough then we will have to have the obligation to pay and make additional contributions and we will have a situation in which, regardless of what is said, we will be responsible for all possible crises that occur outside the banking and financial system of the Republic of Croatia, no matter how much the law predicts that this will not happen, it will happen and no one can reduce our responsibility and what will befall us because the new risk that will bring the euro into Croatia is that we can best see, for example, when the financial crisis there was then there in the Slovak Palace government because it did not want to pay off at that moment that it formed. Also today, Croatian taxpayers will have to show absolute solidarity because of the irresponsible behaviour of some foreign banks that do not want to suffer huge losses. Mr Lalovac really spoke well when he said that these banks, these financial institutions are bigger, bigger than the EU, and of course they are bigger than the Republic of Croatia in every sense and they are the ones who decide what will happen on the financial market in Croatia. Therefore, we believe that this is another fog crash, we believe that this is another unnecessary story in which unprepared economically, first and foremost, unprepared, we are going to take responsibility for something that the Croatian economy, the Croatian banking system and the Croatian financial system and all other institutions are simply not ready. Therefore, for this reason, the Homeland Movement will absolutely not support the proposed laws in this first reading, but we will ask for more and more quality to be prepared together and to adapt to Croatia and the fact that Croatia will keep its monetary sovereignty still through exchange rate mechanisms to better protect its market. And we must also say to the public that we believe that this sovereignty and everything that is happening on the financial market for the consequence has a fact that a lot of citizens are in a very difficult situation precisely because all banks in Croatia act as if we are one financial colony and you will rarely find countries, and we have all had a chance to stay and visit these serious countries where there are so-called countries. currency clauses, where there is a situation where you actually live in one country, you pay in trade with your currency, and you can save and you have to raise loans and make commitments in another currency. We think it's not good, and that's why I'm saying it again, we're not gonna support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8234	Thank you, too. Now we move on to individual debates. The first is Mrs. Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8235	Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, it is necessary to make it very clear and say, this law is not the protection of citizens, the social majority but the richest and foreign eu banks, which are 4 billion kunas from Croatia annually. We've heard from the opposition here, maybe a colleague of Lalovac better introduced this law than I am the legislator, but a series of things have been said that absolutely do not stand. One of them is also highlighted in the presentation of my colleague Bencic, I will highlight some other aspects and segments that point out that we cannot talk here at all about some protection of Croatian citizens, those who are really moaning under that loan boot. This is about shocks, stress, shocks and stress are not the shocks and stress of banks because the European Central Bank has shown that banks are not in much stress with us, and this analysis shows. But they are in the stress and shock of citizens who are raising these loans from these banks and are having a hard time returning them and will be even harder to bring them back after a series of laws that will be listed here in the coming months. So here it's said that, come on, it sounds very nice, that it won't pay citizens for the crisis. Then who's going to pay for the crisis? Will they pay for the alien crisis? Of course, citizens will pay everything in the event of the next crisis or the breakdown of some of the larger banks, as they paid in 1998 56 billion kuna for the recovery of banks so that these same banks would be privatised by 12 billion. So who paid those debts? They didn't pay Europeans, they paid Croatian citizens. The European Central Bank protects, but not the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but the rich believers. It is, we must admit, pump up billions which has reduced the interest rates, but they are too low for us anyway, but then banks have raised their own-initiative fees for their services because they are autonomous in their business policies, so Boris Vujčić told us that in the bakery the prices are autonomous, is that they can raise the price of bread however they want, so where is protection of citizens here if they can raise those banks the price of their services as much as they want. The real question is why are interest rates still higher than interest rates in Germany, and there is absolutely no reason for these interest rates to be higher than Germany because the risks are equal to those in Germany or there is no reason to show that the return of these loans is problematic. Therefore, the charge is equally or equally secure and therefore foreign banks are indeed making a large profit, and the argument means a higher risk that is constantly emerging does not stand because the risk has not yet been realised at all and continues to be listed as an objective assessment of the financial markets and rating agencies of the same ones. It should also be warned that they have uncritically assessed the creditworthiness of Wall Street banks, of which the financial crisis has begun. Well, the Wall Street estimates weren't negative, so every time that crisis happens, we're not, we didn't know. So what about some crisis situations in Croatia? In a similar way we had the meaning of the assessment of this Basel, they're called so beautiful Basel 1, 2, we're in this, in this Basel 3 mechanism that guarantees, so it won't come to that, that it won't come to a bank crisis. But then what happened to the Rijeka Bank? So that's where we still had the downfall where her foreign exchange dealer made a loss of $100 million that no one, nor did the CNB notice, and at the same time it was quite convenient and the president of the management of the Rijeka bank Ivan Stokic won the award for the best manager of the year and paid his bonuses. Otherwise, the same prize was won by Dragan Kovacevic, it seems there is a link, when you get the award for best manager of the year, then there is a very good chance that your bank will fail or be under some corruption investigation. What then to say about these mechanisms means supervision in the case of Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank when the CNB did not indicate that malversions involving top political officials such as Sanader, Pasalic, Zagorec and others were involved? We are not autonomous in that both in the world and in Europe, there are malfeasances in spite of these mechanisms. Let's just mention a Danish bank in '12. Until '16. By means of its Estonian branch committed embezzlement 235 billion kuna. [[Intruder: Unfortunately, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8236	Thank you very much. There wasn't a replica, was there? Okay. - Mrs. Crescent. Grozdana Peric, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8237	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today, the first item is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions. What I would like to stress primarily is exactly what is governed by the law itself, which is therefore the establishment, business, termination of the work of credit institutions based in the Republic of Croatia and the supervisory supervision of their operations, and the conditions under which legal persons established outside the Republic of Croatia can provide banking and/or financial services in the Republic of Croatia. Why does it matter? So just when we mention everything that happened in the past time of crisis, interestingly nobody mentions where the financial crisis actually started? She left the U.S. And what is more important, the Republic of Croatia was then not an EU member and could not regulate all this now with these conditions when we can enter this union, therefore in this regulation, which can protect both our citizens and our banks as institutions, but primarily our own economy. Therefore, this law also equally participates in the adoption of directives and regulations, and in this way we can actually achieve as much legal certainty as possible in relations with credit institutions after the establishment of this very close cooperation of the CNB with the European Central Bank. Yeah, these are all preconditions. We entered the system and the European Course Mechanism ERM 2 and in this way actually made it possible for all these relations to be arranged and finally that our banks which have now proved to be really good in these conditions, we can say that the CNB was doing and leading a very firm policy in a way that adequately with capital it prescribed much, much harder and much more and much more so assumed all of these risks which were, which were possible, so that in many countries the minimum rate of equity precisely was about 8%, while the CNB itself was in the last of this regulation that was 10%. In previous times, it was up to 17%. Thus, it was very important to make sure that this risk was as low as possible and yes, and what does the appropriateness of capital mean? So it means it's a ratio between capital and weighted assets. And what does that mean? This means that with its capital, the bank can be more involved, or it can withstand greater losses, which would potentially result in poor placements. For this very reason, we believe that this harmonisation is also really important because when we look at and what we need to say is that this law does not regulate the relations of our citizens with banks, that is, other laws and other measures will regulate exactly and will take care of how to help citizens to serve their obligations as best as possible. In the end, I have to say that one of the measures that the government has taken is that some entrepreneurs and citizens were able to postpone their obligations, for example. Here is the economy, especially in tourism, which could also extend its commitments by June 2021, which actually enables and assumes that the economy will still be launched as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8238	Thank you. Stay here, please, because you have three replicas. The first replica was asked for by Mrs. Devereaux. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8239	Well, since your party loves, let me put it this way, to drill into the chest of sovereignism, I'm interested in one of these children's questions in this column of bureaucratic language that's being presented here in this speech. In light of the purpose of the law, it is pointed out that the CNB has established close cooperation with the European Central Bank, that it is now conducting a direct supervisory exercise. So I'm wondering why we need a direct central bank European to supervisor our banks. Was that supervisory and why she was not effective in the case of the Rijeka Bank, in the case of the Alpe Adria Bank? Then why didn't that supervision work, and how do you think it's going to work now?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8240	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8241	Thank you very much. So what is very important is to establish exactly these mechanisms which are both the European Central Bank and the European Central Bank, which has actually set as criteria. I do not think that just by entering the system, the CNB can greatly improve its mechanisms, and therefore the more that it is possible to control itself in this way, in fact, the banks whose capital and founders of these banks are not in Croatia, so the capital of the founders and banks that are in the Member States can then be fully controlled.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8242	Mr. Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8243	Honored. In your discussion, you noted that one of the most important things that the CNB has done as a good deed was the adequateness of capital that was significantly higher in Croatia than in the banks of Europe, or in the queens of those banks that practically worked in Croatia. The only thing that was good was good for banks operating on this market, and the fact that capital adequate actually increased the price of money and Croatian citizens paid more interest in Croatia than their queen citizens paid in their queens. So, I don't see any great usefulness to that because all the banks that fell apart in the meantime were rehabilitated by who? Again from Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8244	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8245	Thank you very much. Yes, exactly, but then you must say that we were not in the system then, so we were not a member of the EU that could then be so strong that it could increase or reduce risk. The risk is the one that increases actually the rate of capital adequateness. Why is it in the east now so much more interest rates than in Croatia? That is why those non-EU countries have even higher interest rates. So we were then in a situation that we were a high-risk state, then the CNB kept the system just by increasing the ratio of capital, but then our interest rates were high. Now they're out. Substantially reduced, and then decreased. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The appropriateness rate shall also be reduced. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8246	Thank you. And, no, no, no, no, you have another replica, if you want to respond to the replica. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8247	Thank you very much. You mentioned on several occasions the CNB. Croatia's non-national bank has silently approved the illegal loans of Raiffeisen savings credit cooperatives, as well as all loans in Swiss francs. The CNB has silenced that Croatia's 4 billion kuna pockets annually, 500 fees and pocket fees go untaxed and go to the EU, but where banks are founded, to those countries. The CNB allowed foreign banks to be musar cows, they didn't pay anything back. Nothing. Four billion kunas a year, plus when we think of three. I ask you, remember, money laundering, dirty through banks in the Republic of Croatia. What this Croatian non-national bank does, as it does to foreign banks and foreign interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8248	- Mrs. Crescent. The pen, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8249	As far as I know, and the CNB never approved these and those kinds of savings work in our area, nor was it in charge of them, and everything else was actually a question for someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8250	Thank you very much, ma'am. Peric, you're free now. Thank you. But Mr. Bull's coming up, individually, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8251	Dear citizens here we have been listening all day about credit, credit institutions law that has been harmonising with supposed European regulations, directives, but we must say from this pay phone that the Croatian people have been literally robbed for the last 20 years. Here's a poor very clear story about a savings credit union. The CNB which would have had to make sure that these worthless loans do not happen to these criminal loans, we even passed the law here in 2018 unanimously on the integrity of these loans that cooperatives robbed our Croatian peoples so that the entire islands under their administration, and never those people will return their loans. Many have committed suicides and we pass the law unanimously in this assembly, the so-called "noxious" of these loans, so-called. Lex Škibola and the Croatian state do not apply this to these people. We, the Croatian Parliament, the CNB all whispered out what was going on in the robbery, illegal loans just as it was in the Swiss. The CNB did not work in the interest of the Croatian people but more Vujčić dealt with how he would prescribe a bid to have good waiters who would love a low-quality fish with high quality wines, no one controls them. So we couldn't have the State Audit Office checking their business, not their policy, business, that you remember what it was, so protected, so much as we as the Croatian Parliament, when we mention them, we don't have the right to determine the day, date, month, year when we will accept the EUR, not asking the experts, not asking in the finals or the referendum of the Croatian people. Even the Parliament has passed two laws on the protection of people from these illegal Raiffeisen cooperatives, and it should finally have been for these people to gain their peace, out of this financial terror over these people, it's terror over people. And it wasn't just the CNB that helped the distinguished state secretaries rob the Croatian people from this side and spare credit institutions, but you, your ministry in this robbery, shut up about what we all had to know, and we had to know again that 4 billion kuna, 500 commissions and fees in the Republic went into the pocket of banks, did not tax and did not invest in the Republic of Croatia. Imagine yearly much more than the Peljega Bridge, much more than the EU funds you are calling on, our banks yearly out of our pockets under heavy pressure there was a signature of all the fees, it barely came up no matter what the people invested in, before privatising to banks to capitalize. And of course the people are exhausted, that the people no longer have money, that the economy has no money. Why? Because the CNB is silent about money laundering in banks in the Republic of Croatia that are owned by foreign governments. In the 3rd month of this year there was money laundering at the Zagreb bank, a changed administration seems to me, but why the silence about why we keep silent about being dirty who knows which terrorist or what money is being laundering, criminal. It's been a while in focus and I care about it. So what are we, a banana state? Is our people someone's milk cow? Did the Croatian people deserve to join the EU? That's why we have such devastating results because they milk our money and invest in their countries, and that's where our people go with our money that they sneak out of our people's pockets, and that's where our people go to work and create themselves, to earn themselves bread. And that is the faulty policy of the Croatian non-national bank. So we must not mention, for example, in the assembly. people who are from the EUR-o profession, whether or not the EUR-o needs, should we not. For what? For they have already made our way, driven the way of terror and the robbery of our people. Thank you very much, and we should oppose that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8252	Now it's Mr. Stephen Nikola Bartula. Please, just a moment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8253	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I think today's item on the agenda is a good opportunity to meet the Croatian public with certain risks which today, which Croatia will take tomorrow if it introduces the EURo. In fact, this law leads in this direction, and we know that as a crown argument from the government, it is often mentioned that it is already a commitment when Croatia joined the EU in 2013 that I do not remember a serious public debate on the subject and everything that it and in a positive and perhaps in a negative sense means for Croatia. So today I see this as an opportunity for such a debate that is often missing. And secondly, this whole issue of the introduction of EUR, unfortunately often turns out to be a government replacement for, instead of implementing structural reforms and what it takes for the Croatian economy to be more competitive, all the attention is placed on this area, that something big is going on with the new currency, and we can expect greater prosperity, etc. We know that overnight it means nothing, nothing will change about the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, but it brings certain risks and I would like to talk about it. And I'm going to use the case of Greece, and some have mentioned it since 2011. So I think we have some lessons here, very important to us, which should be warned. So, when Greece joined the Eurozone, it could be easier and cheaper to borrow, the Greek government did so largely and sold its bonds bought by French and German banks. So the German and French banks were most exposed to the whole situation in Greece. And then what happens? There's been a crisis since 2008. We know that the entire banking sector was in big trouble and they stopped lending money as until then and threatened to collapse the entire system. And then the European leaders remembered that there was a fund to be set up for the rescue of Greece and every country in the Eurozone was invited to participate. So the taxpayers of those countries were invited to actually invest in a fund that would save Greece. Already mentioned by counterpart Skoro, the Slovak government fell on the issue, refused to participate in 2011 and early elections took place. But in reality, what's going on? When it was founded, the fund was founded, and that money was re-entered through Greece by French and German banks. So it turns out that the balances of these big banks that are actually huge and dictate many processes that go beyond and politics, so they determine, they're actually saved. So this fund was called the Greece Rescue Fund, and it was basically used in the end to prevent the bankruptcy of French and German banks that were brought into this situation because of the irresponsible decisions of these bankers, you know. So often bankers do not suffer the consequences of their decisions but we, or taxpayers, are invited to invest in ad hoc funds. So the Croatian public must be aware of this because it is the same risk tomorrow that Croatia is taking, it is not so black white, it does not mean the introduction of EUR-o that overnight we will have a better standard. We see that many countries that have already suffered a recession for many years. So I think it's very important and open this side These Full Themes [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8254	Thank you, remain Mr. Bartultz, we have one replica, please remain. Mr. Ivan Domagoj Milosevic's replica, please welcome Mr. Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8255	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bartulica, I appreciate your attitude against the EUR, and I think it is good that the HS faces arguments precisely for and against. But I want to say for all of us how long it allows, three short sentences. First, it is clear that in the Eurozone is the cost of interest and stability of the financial system, it is the blood flow of every economy for Croatia more favourable. Secondly, the fact that we haven't been able to use monetary, monetary independence since the end of the '90s. Now it is too late and when you look at how much, as much as anyone has in currency and in terms of debt and in terms of savings in Croatian banks, I mean the EUR-o, the EUR-o is about y, a quarter is only in kunas in the roughest. And you're wrong about Italy and Greece when you mention them, so both Italy and Greece used to use depression instead of reforms, and today it's clear to everyone that the depreciation of national currency cannot possibly be a substitute for structural reforms. Unfortunately, in 60 seconds, you can't say more than this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8256	Thank you. You just ran out of those 60 seconds. The answer to Mr. Bartultz's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8257	Here, the purpose of this exposure was not now decided to say that the EUR-o does not have certain advantages. However, I think that we must be transparent and honest in some way towards the public and speak publicly about the risks posed by the introduction of the EUR. So, these past cases, what I mentioned for, for Greece and the loss of sovereignty, I think that many, I had panels on these topics here in Zagreb, many experts say that it was actually a big mistake that Greece was even admitted to the Eurozone, and now it turns out that this is impossible to correct because of the exposure of French and German and other banks to that economy. This didn't lead to more prosperity in Greece. It still has very low economic, economic growth He's actually suffering from a recession. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8258	Time, thank you very much, thank you very much. No more replicas, we're moving forward with individual debates, the esteemed representative of Sinisha Jenkach, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8259	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. We have before us the Law on Credit Institutions and the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions. In the report itself, we see that the European Central Bank has made one check of Croatian banks, the strongest Croatian banks, which are mostly or mostly owned by foreign banks but operate and operate in the area of the Republic of Croatia, use our capital to manipulate its masters. It is very important that it is a final sentence and should be pointed out that this supervision has seen that our strongest Croatian banks are still quality institutions and the quality of Croatian banks is highlighted. Why does it matter? Because if we remember twenty years ago then such cases weren't really too much in fact we had a lot of cases of recovery, state resolution of various banks and we had a lot of, a lot of negativity in the banking sector. So we're still making progress and moving towards better financial institutions, which means that the state is more orderly and that the system is functioning. What is important and what is important for the citizens, and we can all confirm that they had loans, whether they deal with entrepreneurship or whether they're ordinary citizens that interest is on loans ten years ago, and that we don't speak far back we remember 20%, 17%, about ten years ago interest was about 10% on loans to both citizens and entrepreneurs. Today these interest rates are far, far less and we see positive movements. I would also look back on history, I think someone here mentioned a little historical framework, and that is certainly the crisis that occurred in 1929, which was mainly caused by speculation by the collapse of the banking system and that has become overstretched and we can say that it also caused II. World War I. Just in 1929, when the banking system collapsed in America to power in '32. The year comes Franklin Delano Roosevelt who primarily directs the American state in two directions, which is one direction definitely in the Nex deal that we all know, and the other direction is where the law on reforming the financial sector, separation of banks from speculation and protection of deposits is passed. It was definitely a turning point that could have been said that the system in the Western world had stabilized, while, for example, the German state was going to solve this let's say big crises with the production of weapons, weapons, and we know where it all led us. Today's law and today's thinking, I think it's good because it's just preventing everything that happened in 2008 when citizens had to resuscitate in America and then in Europe they had to resuscitate banks. This kind of intervention, this kind of change and this kind of control gives us security and tells us that the financial system in the Republic of Croatia is stable and gives security to our citizens that they will not have to by their own means, of course that the states will not have to intervene and that they will not have to resuscitate our banks, European banks and world banks. And I think this law is a good law, it gives us good direction, and we all need to support it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8260	Thank you, too. Stay a little longer, we've got a few replicas. The first is the respected representative Marko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8261	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, Vice President of the Parliament, Secretary of State. Today this is not a debate on the euro, but one very important component of Croatia's entry into the euro and ERM2 the procedure was a stress test on the Croatian banking system. The stress test we passed, very successfully and precisely because we successfully passed this stress test by credit institutions gave a positive opinion on the retention of investment rating and the governments of Andrej Plenkovic, which has led these policies to retain credit ratings in the biggest crisis since the global crisis in 2008 and we have stable interest rates. So, the Croatian banking system is safe, has passed the stress test and precisely because of this one of the essential components is that the trust of the financial world and investment circle in the Croatian banking system and congratulations of course... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8262	Time. Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8263	Well, of course the stress test has shown the stability of Croatian banks, after all, it is a link to the Croatian economy. What is definitely important, and you have also pointed out, that the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia is stable, that it is positive, it is also reflected in the croatian banks' responsibilities, and then on the croatian citizens' responsibilities. And this very stability offered by the Republic of Croatia offers our banking system, and then, ultimately, it results in stability in the economy and in the smaller and cheaper borrowing of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8264	Thank you very much. The next replica is a respected representative of Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8265	... Vice President. Dear fellow Yankee. So I want to point out somehow it seems to me in public that the liche would say keeping the investment rating, first of all... that we saw how much the state deficit has grown. So, in my opinion, almost a billion euros have never been spent better to help maintain jobs in the private sector, so a government deficit exploded, however, all rating agencies have preserved our credit rating and assessed it stable. What's he saying? This says that over the past years and financial stability and what seems to be in every sense to support the economy and the private sector are actually guaranteeing that we can guarantee this investment rating or that we hope to recover from this recession within the next two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8266	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8267	Well, of course, here's what wasn't mentioned, and I'm glad you brought that up. So the Republic of Croatia back a few years after more than 20 years had a surplus of the state budget. Normally, this surplus has also led to a smooth overcoming of this particular crisis, and that is why the citizens also recognized this government, the government of Andrej Plenkovic, because I think they led the country well, and this is an indicator of exactly that surplus in the budget, and then every deficit that is normally caused by the global crisis is easier to overcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8268	Thank you very much. The next replica, the esteemed representative Boris Lalovac, is here, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8269	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, I agree with your debate, I think what matters here is what you said, ownership is a burden in the end. What is important for Croatian citizens to get a low capital price. What is important for our entrepreneurs to receive interest of 2.3%, for Croatian citizens to receive interest of 2% of long-term housing loans, and we know what you said in history when there was a sign of Croatian so we had interest rates of 17%, so companies went bankrupt, etc., it is very important to say that the stability of the system and the lower price of capital is important so that citizens and entrepreneurs can get out of recession as soon as possible. And that's why I support that part of your debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8270	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8271	Thank you very much. Here's the most important thing that you mentioned in your discussion is that the exact price of capital is as low as possible. We are as entrepreneurs and as citizens always looking west and saying that there are interest rates on loans 1, 2, 3%, today we have such interest and give God even lower interest rates and that then, not exactly that interest burden, the credit burden will burden our citizens further.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8272	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8273	Well, I have to say, I'm very comfortable listening to HDZ, and now the SDP because it's very peaceful. I think anyone who listens to that, even though he's hungry, blocked, and his kid's gonna move out the next day can be kind of calm because everything's fine. So your assessment is that there's a stable financial system here, that the banks went as your colleague said that shock test and passed that shock test and now we're all here brilliantly and well. But why do we have more credit rates than Germany, even though the return is the same, and there is no risk in Germany. These stories of risks and the assessment of the risks that are real fall into the water every time we look at exactly the past you mentioned, where these assessments, where these assessments have not proved accurate, I have cited a few examples of the meaning of the Rijeka Bank, the Alpe Adria Bank, etc., so these are completely fictitious self-fulfilling prophecies. Here's the reality no, here it is, this is the reality of Croatia means the return of property, on property in Croatia so high compared to Italy. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8274	Thank you, thank you very much. Replication response, the esteemed representative of the Yankee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8275	Well, of course, one of the most important things is that the risk is lower and you could hear from my debate that the risk has been reduced automatically and this stress test by the European Central Bank has shown that the risk of banks is also lower, and then all those who have the money in those banks, which we invest through these banks and states that are normally linked to the risk and creditworthiness of both banks and the state. So that's very important. I would only respond in a way from, again to Mr Roosevelt's mention of the president who, after becoming president and after a great crisis, suggested to his citizens, the citizens next to the fireplace, with a conversation with the fireplace citizens, restore confidence in the banks, invest money in the banks so that we can get the state out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8276	Thank you for this advice. You've got another line, we won't stop at Roosevelt's, the esteemed representative, Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8277	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with your debate that it is necessary to maintain the stability of the system because of all those users, citizens, entrepreneurs, craftsmen, farmers. Since we still remember the crisis that took place with Agro crafts bank where craftsmen actually kept their savings and which fell overnight they thus lost everything that they've bloody worked for all their lives. I'd like to hear a little bit of your reflection on that group of people who work hard today, don't have a year, don't have a vacation, are exposed to all possible elemental disasters, how do you think this law can help farmers exactly?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8278	Thank you, well-respected counsel Petir, and now respond to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8279	Well, of course, automatically if the bank to which the farmers were bound failed so it wasn't good, a lot of cooperatives were in the '90s, and even after 2000, a lot of banks as I commented were rescheduled by the state normally again by the money of our citizens. Definitely the stability of our banks is also linked to investments in agriculture, and here I am, not looking back at farmers, but they are also one of the big engines of our economy and here I hope that the banks will continue with the credit lines in agriculture and that this link with the stable banking sector and agriculture will continue to be positive. And we see that we have high-quality banks that our farmers can rely on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8280	Thank you very much, that would be it, no more replicas. Let's move on, next individual debate, respected representative Krunoslav Katičić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8281	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs, here we have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the Credit Institutions Act, all related to the Risk Reduction Package for uniform treatment at EU level in relation to financial holding companies, mixed financial.../incomprehensible/... and other all credit institutions. This means a package for Member States, Member States, to be implemented in the national economy by 28 December 2020. Of course, most of these proposed measures relate to the harmonisation of the law with the so-called so-called ‘. the capital quo of the directives and procedures related to the European Central Bank. Therefore, I would like to commend the ministry for its up-to-date compliance with EU regulation, which will give effective and... Harmonisation and harmonisation of the regulatory framework for bank operations with the EU frameworks. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for some substantive changes and additions, I think it refers to the structure of the banking system of the Republic of Croatia that 2/3 make up banks that have an asset of less than 7 billion kuna. It should therefore also be commended to include in particular a provision on the proportionality of capital which allows for less regulatory requirements for small credit institutions to be held on our market and are able to support small entrepreneurs and OPGs through a more individual approach to these entities. In fact, through larger banks that framework, since they are part of large groups, is that means harder. We should also highlight the fact that on October 1st we entered... The mechanism, so we have direct control of our largest banks through the European Central Bank. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It should also be welcomed to redefine the regulatory framework for bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, which eliminates the framework with the announcement that a more detailed, more adequate way is addressed in a separate law, which is a good, good solution. We can also set up a more flexible and state-of-the-art system, and we will be able to deal with the problems that have arisen in the banking system throughout the years. Finally, he would highlight a short sentence that could be sufficient and highlight the example of a successful resolution of the banking system. It's a recent case with the Adriatic Bank which was rescheduled in a way that all of the bank's clients continued to act normally as if in some way nothing because the bank exists as strong as its clients exist, so much would you like to say right now?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8282	Thank you very much, stay a little longer, we have a few replicas. The first replica is the respected representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8283	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, if we have the principle of solidarity among the Member States, this is where these 22 billion euros came from, that those who have better credit ratings are in debt on behalf of all of us, the Croatian banking system has passed the stress test. But what I would like to point out once again is the 2 billion-euro loan of the SVOP. The past government of Mr Plenkovic, before entering the credit rating, agreed at the moment of the biggest crisis when we did not know how to fund very generous measures to the Croatian economy, agreed on a loan to the SVOP, or we to the European Central Bank 15 billion kuna, they agreed to us 2 billion euros. This position of solidarity within and in the banking system gives additional stability, led to the preservation of credit ratings and ultimately led to lower interest on Croatian citizens for their needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8284	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pavić, it's mine to lead the session here and to tell the truth. So, no EUR 22 billion came to Croatia, but was approved, please, that is, that is correct. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8285	Well, I thank my colleague Pavić for this question and, in some ways, a little bit of an explanation of what I've been saying. Of course, the stability of the banking, banking system was also one of the most important segments in these difficult times that hit not only the Croatian economy, but also the significant opportunity and response of the European Central Bank. This further shows that we have strength, an efficient economy and that we manage public finances well, which is the basis for such treatment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8286	Thank you very much, Honorable Representative Katicic. We now have the next line, the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8287	Here I have a specific question that I was talking about on behalf of the club, which is why, the promoter missed these amendments and amendments to the law, correct those provisions that actually concern the lives of a large part of our citizens, and these are provisions on the sale, sale of plasma, or the sale of debt to the Agency for the collection of claims. I therefore pointed out that this is a large, alleged industry that generates huge extra profits that are compared to our other industries that actually produce added value for the Republic of Croatia and 10, more than 10 times higher, so we wonder why, for example, the proposer did not suggest that the debt at a lower price or the reduction of debt can be repeated to those citizens who, due to objective circumstances, cannot pay that debt, why not ensure that they have the right First purchase of that debt at that price and why [[Intruder: Time]] they are not obliged to [[Intruder: Thank you]] The debtor must give, excuse me, consent. [[Intruder: Time, time of fellow Bencic]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8288	Thank you very much. You spoke for 10 seconds. Please don't. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8289	Well, here's a respected colleague's question means who you are is one question that's quite wide-ranging. However, we in Croatia have a whole series of regulatory frameworks, from the CNB which, among other things, respects all the good traditions of European flows, which clearly says that it is managed in risks in financial or credit institutions. As is known, credit institutions are much wider than just the part of banks. I also remind myself that there is a certain Law on Mandatory Relations that clearly defines what a believer can do with his debt. We can't use this new lex specialis to derogate the so-called. the organic law which is the Law on Mandatory Relations. So I think these solutions that are built in here are more than correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8290	Thank you very much. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8291	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, thank you to the banks in the Republic of Croatia, so there's nothing to add. What is it like this praise of yours, I think that you should enter the student textbooks, but what do you say to 500 of these fees and commissions, 4 billion kunas that banks take, are not taxed, not interest, we're talking about commissions, which the CNB has kept secret for years, that's huge money, you know what it's about, what you say about Raiffeisen's savings-credit cooperatives where the Parliament voted that these loans are worthless and still these people are held in debt slavery, how do you comment essentially everything that happens in the Republic by calling for European directives and certain referendums? Today I heard from you, too, the euro you mention, today my colleague Bacic also said there would be no referendum, that there was a man who had against NATO. Are you in favour of a referendum or against a referendum, what are you?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8292	Time, Comrade Bull. Thank you very much, reply to the line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8293	My colleague, I wasn't in my presentation, I wasn't only talking to the banks, I was talking to the entire financial system. As I said again, credit institutions are much wider than banks. The issue is savings-credited cooperatives that you have now imposed is resolved by an appropriate legislative framework, citizens who believe they have the right to do so can regulate their relations through these legislative solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8294	We have another replica, a respected representative, I apologize, you haven't banged hard enough, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8295	He hurt his colleague, Rules of Procedure, Art. In 238, where he said we passed a law here, which is true, but that law is not respected. The criminal organisations are still savings-credited for Raiffeisen cooperatives, robbing Croatian citizens and in this is also the problem of the CNB and the Ministry of Finance, which favour these interested groups that destroy the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8296	Dear colleague Bulj, I am the new vice president, but I have read the Rules of Procedure and you and I know that this was no violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I ask you not to abuse the same... I'll buy you a drink, I won't give you any warning, but don't do it again. [[I don't understand.]] We've got a replica, so we've got a respected representative, Mariana Petir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8297	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Katičić, when you spoke about this law, would like to take a special look at the part where you mentioned the OPGs which are an important factor in ensuring the self-sufficiency of food production, which has proved particularly important through this coronary crisis and what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has included in its programme as a priority. We had opportunities on the Committee on Agriculture to hear the HBOR report where it was said that from 2015 to 2019 about 5 billion kuna was placed in the sector of agriculture and the food industry, of which 2 billion kuna. Some new lines and reduced interest rates have been introduced, but what I notice is that these loan approval procedures are still quite slow and, in that sense, administratively remove obstacles, so I would also like to hear your thinking and knowledge about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8298	Thank you, reply to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8299	My fellow MPs, here's my thanks for this. I am about to re-absorb this response and I think it will be precisely for the benefit of smaller entrepreneurs and including the family agricultural economies that are very important for continuing operations especially in the areas of the Republic of Croatia which are not so affected by industrialisation. So 2/3 of banks in the Republic of Croatia have a capital of less than 7 billion kuna. They were also in the same regime as large banks, these very changes that are now being implemented in the Credit Institutions Act, these are provisions on proportionality, will be liberalised and allow smaller banks to have as much individual access as possible and what... means that citizens and business entities using these products will be more satisfied. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8300	Thank you very much. We don't have any more replicas. We are going with the last individual debate, a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8301	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Vice President. When you listen to all these speeches that have been so far, you actually ask yourself one question. What is the social responsibility of banks in the Republic of Croatia and what is their goal in the economy of the Republic of Croatia? And then you come up with a half-response because the overall answer is very difficult to get, which is that these banks have so far done business in an unsettled country where they have practically done what they wanted or made profits that they could not achieve in organised EU countries. After that, saying that the adoption of such a law or directive is bad for Croatia would be a good thing wrong. Here is just the question of what is missing or what we should have complemented in this Croatian Assembly was no better. Now that you're looking at it, I already have a very similar discussion under my running time about what Europe is imposing on us and on me, that's the question that Europe knows where it's going. Europe is currently in a position to implement it, one market, one state. That's Europe's goal. Europe did it. Both crown crises have done something that virtually no one has talked about or that may have far greater consequences than anything we have seen so far, which is the issue of these euro bonds where Europe for the first time in history became the United States of Europe, where we all guarantee together for the loan we took. Some of the colleagues touched some sovereignty of the monetary policy of the Republic of Croatia in their debate, and this should be returned there in 1994 when the kuna was introduced. At that time, we gave up monetary sovereignty very quickly, or our monetary sovereignty, we tied ourselves well to Europe. We were already, then it wasn't EUR-o, then it was a German brand extremely attached to the German brand, and today it was for EUR-o. So to talk about that EUR-o should not be our future I will tell the EUR-o is our past and our future. The question that needs to be answered in this law other than those that are being set up, is what is the system's response to crises that can arise and which is allowed by the moral gambling of our banks, and thus by European banks to their business. That moral gambling was actually best seen someone mentioned in '29, but I think it was more important in 2008 when someone was trying to make profit out of nothing gambling with citizens' money. And not only in Croatia and Germany and America and throughout the world and could practically lead to a complete collapse of the system. We should aim at the security of the system, but we should also aim to involve banks in the economy of the Republic of Croatia. It should be our goal, and their responsibility should be to help the economy of the Republic of Croatia. I don't say that twice, go to Germany and you'll see that German banks serve the German economy. Our task is to do so in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8302	Thank you. Dear Representative Brumnic, you have two replicas, please remain. The first replica is a respected representative of Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8303	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When you said something was missing from this law, I could agree with my colleague Bencic, I don't know if it goes into this law or if we should do it here in the assembly, it's control of those write-off debts, or trading debts. So from 2016 to today, banks have sold 35 billion kunas from their balance sheets. So they cleaned up their balance sheets and sold what's-his-name. These redeemers of debt. While those amounts were in the CNB, they were being watched as much as they were, now nobody's watching them. So these 35 billion kuna debts that are traded to citizens, and that's what they're talking about today, someone needs to control them, someone needs to oversee them, and protect the citizens in that context. Now, since we can't get through this law, maybe the government can think about some other legal solution that since we're so controlled by banks, it's a little crazy to control the 35 billion debt traded by someone with citizens' debts. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8304	The answer to the line, please, Mr. Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8305	So I fully agree with you fellow Lalovac and colleague Bencic that this is missing, whether in this law or in someone else's, but that is what I was saying about the social responsibility of banks or the purpose of banks in the economy of the Republic of Croatia. This goal cannot and must not, as is practically not in any regulated country of Europe alone, profit. It should serve the development of the economy, and the economy is very difficult to develop if, what the people say you charge interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8306	Thank you very much. Next replica, respected representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8307	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I would only like perhaps for the sake of the Croatian public to clarify the issue of federalisation and the loss of sovereignty of certain states. What you have said is that there is a complete divergence of sovereignty that may be your personal opinion, it is good that we have had this situation that the European Commission has now stopped and guaranteed responsibility, but the EU citizens have not yet answered this question will give it through the two-year conference on the future of Europe co-ordinated by Vice-President of the European Commission Shuica from Croatia, where the goal is to have a two-year dialogue with EU citizens on the future of the EU and whether we are going to a higher level of federalisation or not. Croatian citizens will be able to demonstrate this and it is important to clarify that this direction has not yet been agreed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8308	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8309	Mr Pavić, I am extremely pleased that you noticed this, and here I will really be interested in observing this process in which federalisation corresponds to the financial system of Europe which is 3 times a year stronger than the total economy of Europe if I have looked at the data correctly or in Croatia it is 1.5 times. So if you say that the citizens of Europe will decide that I really hope and will.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8310	Thank you. We now have a final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8311	Here I am as a representative after these numerous expert comments on this law can, as a representative of a small, ordinary man, ask myself a question after these praises that we have heard from the ruling on this proposal of the law on credit institutions can only say that, i.e. Ask a few questions is it obvious that questions need to be asked if when I hear Minister Pavić says 22 billion we will get because of it, and he does not mention 35 billion that he is running through various interest agencies by selling these debts to our citizens, 35 billion that's 15 grand of the Peljeka Bridges, or I don't know how many you can add up. This is what they do in Croatia from day to day selling, looking at people, Raiffeisen's savings-credit cooperatives I mentioned, we passed that law, your government in which you were the minister has adopted this law, lex Scybol to remember that moment, so then most of them lacked one vote and then accepted Mr. Scybol that law unanimously to have most, you remember it well, and you don't respect that law. Here when we talk about credit institutions, of course you often mention the euro here, so this is all ready for the euro. I'm interested in when we're going to have in public, not that Vujčić is the governor who just looks at who's his waiter and he knows how to hook up the fish with the best and the best wines, it's important to him and nobody controls him, I'm wondering if we're going to have a public debate on the euro, are we going to have a referendum? Is that what counterpart Bacic said this morning, the president of the HDZ club, some there, wrote a proposal on an investigative commission that was against NATO. So why should not the people decide about all things? What's the problem? We need to get someone on the Central Committee to raise our hands. So when we speak, mainly to you State Secretary, it wasn't just the CNB that brought Croatia here to suck out 4 billion kunas a year on the basis of 500 fees and commissions, foreign banks in the Republic of Croatia 400 commissions and fees, you know very well. There is also the wrong Ministry of Finance, which is basically covering the work of the shameful CNB. And because of these and such credit institutions that we have financial, mainly key CNB that would protect part of the sovereignty of Croatian monetary policy, it does the opposite. That's why at this point we have our money sucked out, our people who go out to work for our money they suck at and who pay back that money through 6% of GDP, as much as I remember 18 or 20 billion kunas a year sending out with our money milking, I'm not talking about interest that's not taxed. Here it is exclusively suitable for credit institutions and this is all ready for the introduction of the euro, clearly the triba to say publicly, we... and it should be said clearly and loudly to the people. I won't vote for this because I don't hear the profession in public, I don't hear why, why not, I don't hear the debate, but it fell to Plenkovic by heart up there with Merkel who he's been down with and he says we're going to go to Vujčić to solve it, you sign it some of the contracts we had a referendum with. Why didn't the other states introduce it? Why isn't Sweden, Denmark, why? We're bigger, we want to be more Catholic than the Pope. So me as an ordinary little representative, here's Minister Pavić's much more professional, down my neighbor from... originally, he might explain it much better, better quality, mostly these 22 billion that are all there, as well as those 150 million you brought to Imotski and my Cetinski area. When will it be? Before the local elections. You have betrayed our public, our people, and what has been extraordinary, extremely embarrassing of you as a man who comes from the Imotic region.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8312	Please stick to the subject, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8313	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8314	Please stick to the subject here, don't address it directly, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8315	Now, why don't you write me what you're supposed to say, you say, you have 11 seconds to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8316	We're talking about the Credit Institutions Act, don't address a representative directly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8317	Well, he was also talking about a colleague of 22 billion who had nothing to do with credit institutions that weren't even here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8318	I understand. Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure are like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8319	...tell me what I'm going to talk about here, allow me these 11 seconds, actually here I'll let you explain what I wanted to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8320	Thank you, Mr. Bull. In addition, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable State Secretary, Stjepan Curaj, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8321	Thank you. Honorable Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. Finally, I would like to thank, first of all, everyone who participated in the debate, especially those who have strictly adhered to the amendments in question, a law that is complex in its scope, which regulates the work of all credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia, I do not have to tell you exactly what it means. The laws that some say are excessive, rather regulated, but you still see Europe as part of our package of measures that we are now incorporating into our legislative system continue to seek to ensure that to the greatest extent possible, the risk of the business of these credit institutions and what their poor business or not gives the God of doom would mean for the economy of a particular EU Member State, and by doing so, I mean most of all, our citizens. We have had examples in history of what they are and there are behind this speaker that certain crises of the financial system were maintained on the lives of all citizens, and here in Croatia when we talk about the last crisis that has just been caused and came from the financial sector in 2008, and that is why here today, these amendments and the Law on Credit Institutions and Rehabilitation of the same to reduce these risks to as little as possible in order not to make it happen for the states to save public money to save banks with the aim of preserving the same or preventing major floods in economic terms, of course again when we talk about citizens and entrepreneurs. I'll just briefly look back on the suggestions and comments tabled. I would like to thank you for your presentations and your esteemed representative, Lalovec. What I could have had as an agent had a certain width here is, however, I am aware of as a proponent or representative of the government's proposings, and indirectly the Ministry of Finance, I cannot afford to have such a wide range of exposure regardless of how complex this matter is to the public first and foremost, so I would risk myself as if I were simplifying some serious things. The esteemed representative Bencic has been troubled by something that is not the subject of these changes, but is the subject of this law. It's about the sale of debts to the Agency for the collection of claims. I will only remind myself this way that the law on credit institutions and the above-mentioned and the CNB decision provides for the purchase of credit, credit-based, credit-based payments. It is therefore necessary to ensure, when selling the credit institution, that consumers whose principals are the subject of the contract do not come to the acquirer or to the third party to whom the acquirer, the acquirer, transferred the discounts to a more unfavourable position, on the basis of consumer protection in relation to the position the debtors had in the credit institutions. So, translated already in this existing law is just as I said, that consumers should not be brought into a more unfavourable proportion. Of course, this issue is a matter of regulation for both the European Commission and the EU, and we expect it to be resolved at the level of the entire European Commission. But what is also said here is that we cannot change this law stated, the practice itself, or the possibility, because it is regulated by the Law on Mandatory Relations, which states that it is also a constitutional category, that in fact each believer has the right to grant his claim, and that he is obliged to inform the end-of-the-line debtor, therefore not to have his approval but to do so under the Law on Mandatory Relations, which is the roof law on this issue, to do so. It's about the agency. Of course, I can only add that it is in the public consultation and there are amendments to the Law on Tax on Profits where we are just trying to reduce the possibility of selling these claims, i.e. precisely by taxing out the expenditure, it would be considered that the write-off of the claim in the process of reenactment, so that banks can be recognised as 100% cost or expenditure, and thus to reduce the share in the sale of these claims and the NPLs, as it is said in the professional term. Therefore, the aim of this is precisely to make these amendments more rapid and efficient to write off citizens' debts and entrepreneurs and deliveries, mandatory delivery of the same about their rights to waive claims as creditors. The esteemed representative Troscott has been troubled about the supervisory and the above-mentioned March affair that continues to be the CNB, we have had this in the very replica with the esteemed representative Lalovec the issue, and before the CNB had the possibility of supervisory, it is precisely separated here which and how continues to work the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and, in general, its powers are legal, and here we extend these powers of the CNB precisely for the supervisory and work and supervision of themselves, the banks themselves. So again, that one step towards risk. Also, as far as the other comments are concerned, they're not the subject of this law, so I'm not taking them out. The esteemed representative Oreskovic has problem with the quality of the interpretation of the normative acts. What I said at the beginning, unfortunately as a proposing cannot afford so much simplification no matter how complex the matter is but we must stick to those strict norms... and the professional part of how the proposed law itself is and, of course, taking into account and that in this law more than 365 articles are, however, trying here is precisely the goal of getting as close as possible to the MPs as possible, as well as to the citizens themselves, and what they should result from. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly Škoro also problemed the very fact that this is the consequence of entering the European Course Mechanism and introducing the EUR which is not the subject of this law because it has been mentioned many times, so here we are firstly accessing a single supervisory mechanism, a single rehabilitation mechanism to monitor banks, control the risk, and that is what we have committed ourselves to entering the EU. Dear Representative Peovic also as regards supervisory and connections with events in the past, I think the Bank of Rijeka and Hypo Alpe-Adria Banka was mentioned, the bank of Rijeka was 14-15 years ago. and I think that this is actually a good example of why we need these changes and why we need to regulate this part of the risk even more so that there are no repeated situations in history, but we have now, according to the current legislation, had the last few years and the situation with the recovery of the Adriatic Bank which has been successfully implemented and no citizen, nor has anyone left behind for our own, for our rights. So I think the existing legal framework is far better than what it was, and with this we're going to improve it even better all with the same goal. Dear Representative Peric, I absolutely agree that the ultimate goal should be to make the business of our banks more quality and all that has to be spilled towards the citizens specifically and precisely in this risk reduction and ensuring that all their bank placements, i.e. entrepreneurs and citizens, are provided. Dear Representative Bulj several thesis, first of all touched the law on the integrity of the credit agreements with the international features of so-called. Scybol's law. First of all, the law has one, one, one problem that is not new, first of all the EU court has adopted the view that it is contrary to certain,.../incomprehensible/... legal gain, so that it is not in the power of the Ministry of Finance, the law is in the jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry, but regardless, it is absolutely important that this issue is regulated at EU level which we are now part of and, of course, the Ministry of Finance continues to do everything in accordance with the positive legal rules. There have already been several questions about March for the euro, I say again, this law is not subject to the introduction of the euro itself, it is a consequence, these changes are due to our accession to the European Course Mechanism. However, the debate on euro and all benefits and those potential dangers which are very few, especially for a euro-based country like us is something that we welcome... that every time it becomes potent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear MP Bartulica, therefore also risks the introduction of the euro and just as this law introduces the topic,... The euro in our monetary system that I have already mentioned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, as regards interest rates, priority loans, priority movements as a prerequisite for exiting the recession, what can be agreed on will certainly contribute to the stability of the financial system. Also, the esteemed representative Katičić, as regards the above, yes, also less... requirements for small banks, credit institutions will improve their position on the market, this is one of the subjects of these changes, precisely because they, as we know most of them, are dependent on SMEs or small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and are thus exempt from certain regulatory requirements that I have listed in the opening statement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally, I think that if we can link it to this law, to some extent, it is certain that the objective is precisely the security of the banking system and that with these corporations and these mechanisms and the existence of part of the European central banking system, we will have a more secure system that will result in less risks, less risk of placements, alone and less interest. Here, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8322	Thank you, Secretary of State. This concludes, oh, I'm sorry, I'm not closing yet. We have one replica. Dear representative Sandra Bencic, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8323	Thank you. In fact, they asked whether the issue of selling debt to the requesting agencies was the subject of regulation of this law, and you yourself mentioned that it was, in Chapter 9 of the purchase of credit institution placements and therefore, this law could limit the sale of claims, in particular claims that banks have towards citizens who are unable to repay their debt. It is not true, namely, that the Law on Mandatory Relations prevents us from doing so because in the regulation of requests that can be passed on by means of a contract, the Law on Mandatory Relations clearly states that the believer can, by means of a contract concluded with third parties, transfer his claim to that effect, except for those whose transfer is prohibited by law or which is strictly personal or which, by his nature, opposes the transfer to another. So, the law can prohibit the transfer of certain claims, and also, if it can be prohibited, it can be limited in any way in a way the first purchase of debt at a lower price to the debtor himself or also, to regulate the question that it does not go [[Intruder: Time.]] in this article, rather than having to [[Intruder: Thank you.]] There's an agreement. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8324	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8325	Thank you. I agree that this issue needs to be regulated in particular, we do not have a regulatory body which strictly deals with the demand collection agencies, however, when I mentioned the Law on Mandatory Relations, and the changes which he and possibly the exceptions he contains are not related to trading itself, let's say, in terms of debt, colloktically to try some advice and I take over because we have an extremely developed market for European and world trade in derivatives, therefore it is precisely products that are even, that is one part that is established in practice, we cannot limit even trade in certain plasma and not even debt because such a decision would not be constitutional, but I agree that it should regulate closer that I cannot and what is in this law, that consumers should not be brought into an unfavourable position.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8326	Thank you very much. That was it. On this agenda point, I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We are going to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 33; The Proposer shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 33. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? He wants to, we'll give you a chance to drink some water, honorary Secretary of State Stephen Curaj, please go again today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8329	Thank you, Vice President. Therefore, the Proposal for a Law on the Resuscitation of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies within the same package as previously mentioned, therefore, only for a short time to continue to reform the EU banking system with the aim of strengthening the ability of banks to endure possible shocks, all of the risks we have discussed, with the aim of preserving financial stability and strengthening the capital needs of banks and measures to improve the credit performance of banks themselves, there too, had a lot of grudges, i.e. the possibility of banks participating more in the economic recovery itself. This is one of the EU's intensities, so these two regulations and all the directives are also correspondence to our legislation. First of all, this is not about changes and additions, but this is about a new law. What is also good to note in the introduction that one of the reasons is also from the change in the existing recovery framework is the implementation of TLAC standard, i.e. Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity, so the possibility of how much total loss can be absorbed by the credit institutions themselves that are actually being incorporated into EU legislation. First of all, it requires globally systemically important institutions to keep up-to-date commitments to cover losses and capitalise the institution in recovery. What is important here also to mention our entry into the European Course Mechanism which is just opening up these unique not now more supervised options, we are now talking here specifically about the recovery mechanism or Single Resolution SRM, so it is now allowing all decisions related to the recovery issue at the level of the banking union to be made centralised, independent and efficient. Special cases are the resolution of cross-border groups where coordinated action by several resolution bodies is required. So, translated if we should obviously have queens, we have the owners of our banks in which their recoverys are not to be considered especially for one Member State but for everyone where they perform their economic activities. So we absolutely minimise the cost of tax bonds and strive to minimise the effect of spilling over the wider economy. I think this is absolutely important in these changes today because this is the motive of all these changes and this new law to just minimize this spilling and the effect itself on the wider economy. The single recovery mechanism itself provides a centralised mechanism for the resolution of all credit institutions established in the participating Member States, while the centralised resolution authority has been established and entrusted to the single resolution committee, so-called Single resolution board SRB and national rehabilitation bodies. So, as we had the issue of supervision, direct surveillance, indirect, here we also have the continued involvement of the rehabilitation bodies that you will later hear about and the way it was proposed by this law. So we're not giving up anything, we're actually winning. In order to ensure uniform financing of the recovery, this single recovery fund has been established. You know that with our State Agency for Savings and Bank Recovery, there is already a certain resolution fund, here is this unique Single Resolution Fund SRF, which manages exactly this single recovery committee. As far as the charge itself is concerned, it shall be filled for the first 8 years from the draft, from 2006 until the end of 2023 by the payment of credit institutions with the aim of achieving a target level of at least 1% of the amount of secured deposits of all credit institutions within the banking union. So it is estimated that this should be concluded on 31 December 2023, '20-23, the total state of funds would be around EUR 40 billion. Therefore, as far as the most important news in this law is concerned, rules, procedures and instruments for the recovery of entities, powers and tasks of the resolution authorities and the management, financing and use of the funds of the Sanitary Fund are laid down. The objectives of the resolution and the principles on which the draft law is based are to deviate from the objectives and the principle of the applicable law. First of all, the principles that creditors do not suffer greater losses than those they would have suffered if a bankruptcy procedure had been carried out against an institution or entity. Therefore, the result of the recovery process must not lead to a worse or worse situation for the believers than for the bankruptcy to be carried out. The most recent developments relate to changes in the setting of a minimum requirement for regulatory capital and liabilities, etc. a real request. Otherwise, I may have failed to say this in response to the finding of the distinguished representative Oreshković that every law also has its own term at the beginning where just more detailed terms, shortcuts, determine not only from the question now of this particular Ministry of Finance but all the laws that come before us so it is good to use yourself there a little look so there may be some things more clear. .../incomprehensible/... the request shall be determined individually, therefore for each bank individually depending on the recovery strategy, consisting of 2 components, amounts to cover the loss, so the amount of the loss to be covered by the recovery and the amount to be capitalised. Therefore, with a view to stressing the importance of meeting this particular requirement, it is proposed that in the event of any non-compliance.../incomprehensible/... request that the resolution authority take appropriate action to take this account of the measures taken by the competent authority. In order to ensure the transparent application of the real requirement, the obligation to deliver a report at the amount of the regulatory capital and other liabilities subject to internal recovery and the obligation of regular public publication shall be proposed. Otherwise, this law also provides for certain rehabilitation instruments where they would like to be highlighted by instruments of sale, transitional institution, separation of assets and internal recovery instruments. It's so-called. the balance and precisely related to these regulatory requirements as regards the funds themselves that a single credit institution is required to keep in accordance with its recovery strategy. Indeed, from the 2008 crisis when the resolution and rescue of credit institutions mostly ended.../incomprehensible/... i.e. by using taxpayers' money, it is now intended to make it known that a certain amount of credit institutions' funds must be held in order to make those resolutions their own means, so-called. .../incomprehensible/... in order to again say reduce the risk of using taxpayers' money, and hence the business of the entity itself, so as not to have any spill over on citizens or on the economy. So, what is also important to me, I think, is that one of the minds of this law is to take into account the existence of several rehabilitation bodies in the Republic of Croatia and the situation which is the establishment of close cooperation with the European Central Bank which we have had examples of, the Republic of Croatia is becoming a participating Member State in a single rehabilitation mechanism,... for the CNB to take over the power to resuscitate credit institutions. Therefore, it would practically establish a new division of the resolution powers under which not only the CNB but rather the CNB would be a resolution body for credit institutions, and here we are talking about that strategy. Therefore, the planning and implementation of the resolutions of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, or the HANFA, would be proposed to be for investment companies, as well as for planning and implementation, and the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, respectively, would be a body run by the National Recovery Fund and managed by the Deposit Insurance Fund under the law. In conclusion, this proposal continued further harmonisation of legislation with the EU acquis, and we believe that, apart from establishing co-operation with the single resolution committee at European Central Bank level, it was primarily necessary to ensure that institutions have sufficient capacity to cover losses and capitalisation in order to ensure smooth and rapid coverage of losses and recapitalisation in case of resolution with minimal impact on taxpayers and financial stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8330	Thank you very much. We have three replicas, the first respected representative of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go, Mrs. Dark Tarriatash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8331	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State. I have one technical question, so we have two laws in the debate and so far we are all who have spoken said it would be good if the debate was united, but what is there. By choosing to change and supplement for the first law, and for this law, which has been in force since 2015, you have decided to go for a new law, not amendments and additions. What was the reason? Why did you make that difference? So, the law we've already discussed was amendments to the Credit Institutions Act, and now we have a new law, what was the reason? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8332	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8333	I thank you for that question. Because of the better normative legal arrangement of the legal framework itself, actually because of the scale and essence of the changes. In the previous law, the amendments went specifically according to certain articles that were clearly structured, which were complemented by certain concepts, we are still working here on fundamental changes in order to get a quality cleanup and because of the importance of the law itself because of the implementation of the resolution we felt it was important to go to a new law in order to have a better normative regulation of the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8334	Thank you very much. Next replica, respected representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8335	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here's to see if I understood it well, and I think that's what you said, so 50% of the banks in Croatia are Italian owners, if there's a problem in the future with some Italian banks, so far it's been so that they could partially solve their savings problem in Italy and leave it at risk in Croatia. This law now unites this and says that a unique recovery mechanism that cannot only be rehabilitated saves in Italy but also saves in Croatia. And in that context, I think this law contributes to Croatian savings and deposits. Now, the question is, did I get it right, and it's actually the real point of passing this law that there's no possibility that there's a banking crisis in a Member State that it's going to cross over to another country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8336	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8337	Thank you, Vice President. It is just as well-respected, MP, as you said, that is why all branches, all economic activities of a particular bank and owners of certain credit institutions at EU level are now being observed. It cannot happen in a single recovery committee that something has been done selectively only for the queen, not in a country that all these banks provide their services or carry out economic activities. So it's usually done at EU level, and now they're all equal no matter where they're doing business.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8338	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8339	Here's another few tons that aren't so optimistic about this law. What you wanted here with this law is some sort of recovery of credit institutions, security insurance, and it sounds pretty nice and what I hear from my colleague Laloca. But what you gave in your answer tells me that there are a number of other problems, which you said that the Rijeka Bank is an example that shows that we should have more control or in translation of the autocolonial approach where we are controlled from the outside. But the Rijeka Bank is just an example that shows that no control is working and is not effective because at the time of the Rijeka Bank it means that it was the Basel 2 mechanism that had already been improved the Basel 1 mechanism, now we have Basel 3, but we can have as many of those basils as you want again when the crisis comes to an end, nothing is essentially solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8340	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8341	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs. So, the Rijeka Bank was in 2006 if memory serves me well, as a rule, and with this unique and supervisory and rehabilitation mechanism, we ensure that not only our domestic banks, which are unfortunately not many, but also the owners of our banks working here, must carry out strict measures... reduction of risk assessments to avoid unpleasant events. Of course, the measures that have been taken since 2006 have certainly contributed to such situations themselves have contributed to improving the normative and regulatory work of banks, so I do not believe that such a thing could be repeated in view of and precisely with these changes that we are doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8342	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. You can go to your place. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I should ask the representatives of the committee's rapporteur if he would take the floor? If you don't, I'm opening up a debate, it's gonna be good to be a man. The first one will speak on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8343	Good afternoon, everyone. So, we have to say clearly that this is again a mechanism that allows banks to get into a situation themselves with everything that the previous law has made possible, this recovery mechanism is an additional one, is it said, leverage not to happen in the banking crisis. This regulates the rehabilitation of credit institutions and investment companies. And this law is a alignment with the European law, as it is said, on the legal property prescribed by the European Commission in the business segment of credit institutions, banks and other institutions. Also, both this law and its amendments are in the position of both the CNB and the government to enter Croatia into the Eurozone. This is also an integral part of the procedure for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Course Mechanism 2, ERM 2, which is a step towards entering the Eurozone. It should therefore again be warned that this actually means a step further towards giving up its own currency and formally rejecting the possibility of achieving even a minimum degree of monetary sovereignty and proactive use of the leverage of monetary, exchange rate and credit policy. It should be reiterated that Croatia's entry into the Eurozone and the rejection of its own currency have not been voted anywhere by the social majority and that the CNB and the ruling conduct steps to enter the Eurozone which are not democratically legitimate anywhere. The CNB is not under public and democratic control and any democratic interference and control of their work seems to be being rejected and not encouraged, let alone being implemented. This is also understandable because the CNB and then domestic commercial banks are implementing policies that are not in line with Croatian development needs, and certainly not with the interests of the working and social majority. And here are the words "resistance," "resistance to shocks", and all through the further implementation of the remaining elements of the regulatory framework accepted by the Basel Committee for the Control of Banks and the Financial Stability Committee. That new regulation or so-called. Now Basel 3, is the regulatory framework supposed to ensure better control of the business of financial credit institutions and their risk management, i.e. how well it is said to reduce stress and how well it is said to be resistant to crisis shocks, and that in the event of a crisis, there are no losses. But let us remind once again, according to the European Central Bank's report, the banks are not under any stress at all, but are under the stress of citizens who supply them abundantly and torture them with interest payments and all other huge interest-bearing duties. The new regulatory framework has failed to prevent cases such as the Danish bank in the period from '12. Until '16. By means of its Estonian branch, it has committed embezzlement of around EUR 235 billion. Similarly, prior to the global financial crisis, the reliability and credibility of the regulation of supervision of the financial system was assured, meaning the known crisis in 2007 and '08. ensure the reliability of the system according to Basel 2 regulatory framework, where the most prominent rating agencies, audit houses gave the highest credit ratings and assessed as the lowest risk of the largest banks from Wall Street, of which the shooting of balloons on the mortgage credit market, and then large European, especially German, French banks whose placements proved to be high risk and non-refundable. It should also be recalled that the CNB under the Basel 2 regulatory regime was also, so it did, however, cause the collapse of the Rijeka bank where its dealer made it a loss of $100 million that no one, nor did the CNB notice. At the same time, however, the president of the management of the Rijeka bank, Ivan Stokic, received the award for the best manager of the year and paid off the bonuses. Here we hear that Todorovic was released, there is absolutely no coincidence for any activity that is not in accordance with the law. Also in the case of Hypo Alpe-Adria, HNB did not indicate that there were malversions involving top political officials such as Sanader, Pasalic, Zagorc and others. Therefore, critics know the problem of regulation of financial system control warn that the new regulatory rules are only an upgrade of previous rules and do not ensure greater resilience and protection in situations of systemic crisis and do not address the problem of inherent financial instability of the capitalist system. But obviously, we must welcome a new financial crisis to make sure that better regulation of the financial system cannot result from letting technocrats come up with new Basels, therefore, but also from putting the financial system under public and democratic control. The amendment of the Law on Credit Institutions and the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies apparently ensures greater robustness and resilience of financial institutions, and in fact further deepens the negative role played by domestic banks and other financial institutions in view of Croatian development needs. In fact, those laws have nothing to do with the change in the existing unfavourable credit policy of the so-called so-called ‘unfavourable’. The domestic banks do not affect the extreme restrictive conditions of funding of domestic companies, which is why we also had the theme of the guarantee fund at the previous session, which recognises that these same banks will not finance small and medium-sized enterprises unless they are provided with guarantees for loans. Thus, those laws will not affect credit policies in order to contribute to the objectives of increasing the employment rate, developing the strategic sectors, etc. Instead, these laws are primarily concerned, and this should be clearly said, about protecting the property of wealthy creditors, and both foreign and domestic where almost 50% of the savings that we understand are held by only 2% of the savings in Croatia, is concerned that they collect large margins and multi-camera rates on loans rather than in their queen countries, even though the payment of credit discounts is equally high, which means there is no greater risk that they would justify higher interest rates, that they extract more than billions of kunas annually from Croatia, etc. These laws do not change anything drastically, but it points to some facts about banks and the EU as a colonial position of transition states within the EU. This harmonisation of our legislation with EU directives aims to allegedly preserve the resilience of the European banking system, while further strengthening the ability of banks to endure possible shocks, domestic institutions are monitoring and informing the European Central Bank as the supervisory authority of our credit institutions from now on. This also mentions the different distributions of security layers of capital, as measures to preserve capital that cover the risks of financial operations. But one of these colonial policies that is visible when we look at things a little more critical is the return on property (return on assets) means ROA as a traditional measure if we look at bank profitability, it is evident that the rate differs dramatically among groups of countries, with the generality of countries from which the return rates are much less than 200 to 300% than in transition countries. Take an example of Croatia and Italy, here you have marked here is Croatia, here Italy because our largest two banks are actually Italian. ROA is 1.4% in Croatia while in Italy 0.4% is essentially 350% different. Is this, then, the purpose of EU supervision, is it the protection of the interests of Croatia or the rich countries of the centre? Why are interest rates more in us than in Germany, and the profit of the loan claim is constant, just like in Germany? Of course, it comes from an assumption that allows for extra profits that the banks have come to us for. This assumption is not proven by anything, this pleasant position that banks have acquired for years of legal robbery is still trying to maintain in a way that the reduction of interest income tries to compensate so that now all banks suddenly raise the price of service fees, in which, of course, ZABA is ahead of Italy's UniCredit which has raised the price of services by 50% in one move. Boris Vujčić, in his own time, said that each baker has the right to determine the price of bread, and the customer chooses the picturesquely illustrating fact that banks have the right to determine the amount of compensation themselves, and clients have to decide which one of them to operate with. The fact that the CNB doesn't regulate anything that should protect citizens and it's hard to believe that this will improve these changes. Just as Vujcic said, the bank itself autonomously determines what the heights of its fees are. Instead of such laws, root change would be a turning point, and that should be said in this form, a turn from financialisation of the economy to the socialisation of finance. So what does that mean? That instead of a highly funded economy that only cares about the protection of the richest, banks turn towards the socialisation of finances, socializing their goals to make banks truly half-developed policies in favour of the social majority, not to squeeze high interest rates of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8344	Thank you very much. The next one will be discussed on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club by respected representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8345	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. In front of us today is this second law that we said was to be discussed as a package. Do we discuss here today whether what is good for Croatia or does not bring about it is what is important for the citizens and in what particular case is good? I don't know if you remember until 2008 what the amount of the security savings was? Probably not a lot of people remember. By 2008, when there was a major financial crisis, there were 100,000 kunas, the 1000.000 kuna was the amount of the secured savings of Croatian savings. Then, between 2008 and 2013, that part of 2008 was increased to 400,000 kuna, and the last changes in 2013 when we joined the European single market, the amount of the secured savings was raised to 750,000 kuna, somewhere around 100,000 euros. So the deposit insurance systems themselves in the last 10, 12 years go for the benefit of Croatian citizens, increasing the amount of insurance savings from 100,000 kuna to 750,000 kuna. So Europe has set standards for all member states to make it 100,000 euros. And then she set another criterion that was initially said here, that if there was a crisis spilling from one country to another country, from one bank to another bank, and we know that the business of financial institutions is globalised, that in this context it is acting uniquely, which means that it cannot go into saving savings in Italy and that it remains on the side of saving in Croatia. And it's the well-being of this law, as much as some want to deny it or as much as some want us to attack this law. We're trying to talk about facts, and these are facts as much as anyone wants to serve populism, and it's good to talk today about how to nationalize everything. On the other hand, these laws make a concrete contribution to Croatian citizens. Currently for the recovery of financial institutions, and we had two resolutions and we know what the recoverys were until 2000, we know what the recoverys were like that all went to the burden of Croatian citizens, and we know that out of these 300 billion kunas, 30 billion kuna is public debt in the recovery of financial institutions. And we know that, right? And now someone today defends what is not, which was not good then, because we could not access European mechanisms. Today when we approach European mechanisms, when it will no longer be entered into public debt, the recovery of banks and someone's playfulness, it is no good now. But the arguments need to say why it's wrong, but there's no argument, there's no pulsism. Currently in Croatia for the recovery of banks and you have said well here, we had a very important bank for the Sibenik area, the Adriatic Bank and managed to resolve it without any harmful consequences for the Sibenik County, for the citizens of Sibenik, etc. Is everyone paid in that one context? They did because it worked in this context the deposit insurance system. And we remember numerous Croatian citizens before 2000. who never charged their claims. What's the other one, the second one? So entering a single deposit insurance mechanism reduces the amount of compensation if the bank fails, right? We remember that in the past it's been known for up to a year to wait for someone to pay you your savings, for up to a year it's been known to wait, someone didn't even welcome the payment of their savings, right? The deposit insurance system reduces the deadlines. Until 2020. It seems to me that it was somewhere maybe 14 days, until 2024. Regulation will be adopted within 7 days. So if any bank fails, within seven days they'll pay you money, pay the money. Is that good for Croatian citizens, right? I think it is, that you don't have to worry at all about whether this bank will go further and how to charge, because there is a system of insurance or bank payments if such a harmful event occurs. I think today someone here wrongly said that they are paying Croatian citizens, they are not paying Croatian citizens anything, they are paying the banks themselves in the deposit insurance system, and he, I think, is according to the latest data I have managed to find, the banks have so far paid $5.5 billion to the deposit insurance system and to some deposits of 192 billion kuna, as it has been, as far as 2018. It was close to 3%, which is much higher than the average they actually say, the EU says. So if we're somewhere around 220 billion kuna today, which means about 6-7 billion dollars is paid, paid off by banks if there's some kind of harmful event. How can I pay for that savings? It's part of how DAB works. You can only two ways to secure deposit payments. In advance, ex ante, means pre-payment, so if an event occurs you already have some funds and ex post, when some harmful event occurs. What kind of model did Croatia choose? Croatia has chosen an ex-ante model, funds are paid in advance, and we think that's a good thing. Some countries have ex post, some countries have when a harmful event occurs, then some funds are only being paid. However, then the legislation... We think it's a good thing, that in advance, there's a part of a good time when money can be accumulated to be paid into that kind of insurance fund, for saving insurance, do we think that's a good thing? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we can't, we can't use every kind of pulsism, we can say something that's not right to be fixed, but if something's good, then it's something good for my people or we don't know better, if someone knows better someone's suggesting it, that's better. So that these contexts and the creation of a single sanity mechanism that will operate at EU level at some EUR 40 billion, which will cover all savings within the EU and therefore that original law, means first the European Central Bank wants to oversee all these financial institutions so that they can then be paid out of all these one, one and one and the cash register that will go out of the sanity mechanism, and that is why these are pooled vessels, right. No one can know, in the past, there have been many downfalls and, in fact, the decline of the economy and the poverty of the citizens during the financial collapse, so the countries have been able to recover for 10 years after the collapse of financial institutions. Now there has been a coronary crisis one of the major crises. However, we see that financial institutions have managed to show a part of the resilience and that it has not, that it has not collapsed the financial system, that it is there and that the next year we are saying that we need to get out of the crisis, that we need to see more positive that we will get out of the crisis, that deposits, that deposits are secured, that banks will continue to pay that amount because I know that banks are also putting a terrible pressure on the Minister of Finance. Why? To cut that fee, to cut that fee for them, right? Because they believe that part of the fee should be given further into the economy and the finance minister is here for now and says no, the fee remains at that and that amount for insurance, for ensuring the deposits of Croatian citizens, right. The most important thing is to be sent no matter how trivially someone says it today, but when panic occurs then all that panic destroys, destroys both the economy and saves and entrepreneurs and recoverys are long, tens, tens of years and generations of loss to restore that stability. And as much as it seems today this negative to talk about, but really stability of the financial system and because of public finances and because of pension payments and because of savings, and because of entrepreneurs, is something we can't forget, and we can't believe that this is trivial, because history has shown us that it's not so trivial, has history taught us that these are very harmful mechanisms and we today think that it's normal, that it's all for sure, and history has shown us that we haven't always been safe. And that is why, when some laws are in favour of Croatian citizens, they should be supported regardless of which club they came from, and that is the part of parliamentaryism when we talk structurally about some things and when certain things are unrelated from which part of the club MPs come to support them because they are in favour of Croatian citizens and Croatian economies and that is why the SDP Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8346	Thank you very much. Just because we're 12 here in the assembly room and those who are following us, you said that the recovery fund provides savings and that your money will be paid within 7 days, right? Manufacture futuro, right? All we have to say is for those who follow us, it's going to be at the level of the amount that's being secured, isn't it? ... That's right, everything after that will, of course, fail. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's move on. In the name of... Well, you should be clever. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected representative, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8347	A long time ago, there was a Mrs. McNally. Margaret Thatcher when she was asked about socialism said that famous sentence, you know what, the only problem with socialism is that someone else's money runs out sooner or later. And let me repeat, sooner or later, there's a lot of other people's money running out, and I think examples like Venezuela, thank God, they're getting less, uh, pretty clear. Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In this second point today, I will continue where I ended up the first time I spoke, so why this whole complex of these two laws is so important and why the recovery that is now being done in this bill is important. So, I'll try to explain, banks aren't just any business. I got into politics from business, back in '89. When I was a kid, I started this one, and I think it must be clear to everyone, that the banks are dominatingly borrowing and playing with our money, so it's someone else's money. In every other business, every company plays with its own capital. Unfortunately, with the work of those who work for him, suppliers, customers, of course, but there is no breadth of responsibility for the people who have saved, some have been saving for decades, they've taken away their wages, so that when the bank fails, they'll lose everything, and that happens, thank God, that's the past, in the last century. So it's under no. 1. Under no. 2. I think it is particularly important, especially, as my colleague Lalovec said, after teaching from the past crisis, that you start in 2008, which is that our taxpayers do not pay for future bad governance, taking the risk of certain administrations, so that the burdens of resuscitating banks do not go to the burden of the state, or taxpayers and ultimately, not least, and this is the speed and transparency of this process, the resolution of banks is an additional guarantee of trust in the entire banking system of each country. Now allow me a few sentences to tell you about this bill. So a risk reduction package, so-called. RRM package, Rick Reduction Measures. I would only suggest to the resolution ministry, yes, not only, in this case it was done, but for all other abbreviations, from which we come from English explanations that we also have a Croatian translation. So a risk reduction package. The package continues: 1) further reform of the EU banking system with a view to preserving the resilience of the European banking system, with further strengthening the bank's ability to withstand possible shocks, 2) further implementation of the remaining elements of the regulatory framework adopted by the Basel Committee on Banks and the Financial Stability Committee, and preserving financial stability by strengthening the capital needs of banks and measures to improve bank creditworthiness, i.e. reducing burdens on smaller banks, improving bank capacity to finance NSPs and infrastructure projects. As part of this package in the area of recovery and credit institutions and investment companies, there are a whole series of regulations, I am not going to state them here, too. What is important is that Member States have made commitments to bring them all into their national legislation on 28 December this year. One reason to amend the existing framework for the rehabilitation of institutions and implementation of TLAC standards-total Loss-Absorbing Capacity, Croatia would say, in a sense, a complete capacity for absorbing losses in EU legislation. This standard has been established by the Financial Stability Committee, a request from globally important institutions on a continuous basis to maintain a sufficient amount of liabilities to cover losses and capitalisation of the institution in the recovery. Since TLAC is a standard and minimum requirement for regulatory capital and subject to obligations, it aims to achieve the same objective, these two requirements should be complemented within the common framework. It is primarily necessary to ensure that institutions have sufficient capacity to cover losses and capitalisation in order to ensure smooth and rapid coverage of losses and capitalisation in the event of resolution with a minimal impact on taxpayers and financial stability. Therefore, the creation of a proposal for a Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies is primarily necessary in order to bring national legislation into line, as I have already said, and then for the new division of resolution powers, as from the date of establishment of close cooperation with the European Central Bank of the Republic of Croatia, it becomes a participating Member State in the Unity Rehabilitation Mechanism. The draft law also provides for the possibility of applying simplified obligations in the event of an assessment that the failure of the institution and the implementation of a regular insolvency procedure would not negatively affect financial markets, other institutions and the overall economy, never more important today given the recession in Europe and most of the world. Furthermore, taking into account the existence of several rehabilitation bodies and the situation where the constitution of close cooperation with the ESB of the Republic of Croatia becomes a participating Member State in the Single Rehabilitation Mechanism, it has been assessed that it is justified for the Croatian National Bank to assume power over the resolution of credit institutions, the HANFA of investment companies. Therefore, the division of the resolution powers in the bill is the following. The CNB is a resolution body for credit institutions, the HANFA resolution body for investment firms and the DAB body runs a national recovery fund, manages a deposit insurance fund and is authorised to carry out bankruptcy and liquidation of banks. The draft law does not provide for the obligation of the Sanacia opinion body of the Ministry of Finance and the DAB on each recovery plan, which speeds up the process of adoption of the Sanantia plan. However, the Ministry of Finance and the DAB shall receive information for all institutions that are members of the group as members of the Sanjay College, and for all non-group institutions, the resolution body shall provide them with the necessary documentation. Finally, let me repeat again and stress that given the recession, given the challenges of economic nature not only in Croatia but in the whole of the EU and much wider than that, because today's economy is the related vessels, it is nice to thank your colleagues for the climate, so you agree at last, that is fine, so we will need the banks solid and stable to get back to economic growth as soon as possible, to restore jobs which, thanks to God this year, thanks to the government's measures and never better spent words, already a billion euro to support jobs in the private sector, we have stopped bleeding in this sense. Of course, the pressure will continue because the economies are linked again especially within the EU. In order for us to do this quickly together, of course, first of all, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is important to us in a stable financial system, which is the lower interest, the lower the cost, which is why it is important that we keep our investment rating with stable prospects and thus secure lower interest, hopefully even lower.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8348	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Party with the name and last name, Smart and GLAS respected representative Anka Mrak Taritaš.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8349	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-worker and co-worker after a fellow Lalovac who comes out for a pay phone and explains it nicely so that everyone can understand what it is quite difficult to talk about, but it is equally important to warn about a few things. I might start with two things. The first thing is the history is the teacher of life, nothing with us will start, it doesn't start, nothing with us won't even end. There's another curse that God gave you to live in interesting times, and now we're absolutely aware of what it's like. When I said what history is the teacher of life we're quite inclined to go out for a pay phone and talk like there was nothing before us, so it's not like that. In 2012, we held a referendum last January which was a referendum in Croatian history, which is about EU accession. The referendum came up with 43.51% of voters and 66.27% voted that they are ready to support Croatia's entry into the EU and all that the EU means, that the EU also means the euro. In this regard, we have no problem, we live and we talk about everything about the EUR, that it is harmful in the EUR, that real estate is bought in the EUR, but when we talk about the EUR, then we have a problem and we are talking about the damage that will be or will not be. So in 2012, we decided on the EUR, and we live that we decided on the EUR, and this is another law that goes in that direction. Similarly, this is not the law, we have the law of 2015, the law that is in force, the law that is in force, the law that is now talking about the recovery of credit institutions and investment companies, this law we read in a way that certain things are improved and that certain things are clearer. In this regard, what is in this law, there are 3 things that have been improved in this law, and this is about transparency, is about simplifying the procedure, so we always advocate in all the laws to be simplifying the procedure and in this law we have received this and not only simplification but also acceleration in a way that there is no need for me to read everyone who was interested they have read, but also the way the institution works and works. Every time he comes, there's a law here in the assembly that causes debate because they're partly world-sighted, they have laws that are technical, and then they cause a little less debate, and from this we can see that without a problem, a united debate on these two laws could have gone because everything that the colleagues said on the first law and everything we say on the second one could have been said once, but such a decision as they do, we have a chance to talk more times, more minutes and more. We should always think about what the ultimate goal of the law is. If the final goal of the law is something that is acceptable to us, then it is acceptable for us to vote at the moment of the vote and so should we vote. So this law offers greater transparency compared to the existing one, offers acceleration of the process, introduces simplification of the process, but what is important to our citizens, so I've been walking this world for quite a long time, and now I'm already at life when I'm going to remember what was 20 years ago than it was yesterday, and I remember all those lines that were in front of the banks well, I remember everything that our citizens went through with certain banks. This law enables and makes life easier for our citizens. If it makes life easier for our citizens, then we need to talk about it that way, and so should we at the moment of voting, vote. If they offer certain security for savings, if they offer the stability of the system, then stability is one word that I find difficult to use just as hard as I do to use and the word a few words that we have already actually started to use in everyday and not to use properly, but we do live in a very interesting time. We live in times when Covid is present, it's a fact, we have to live with it, and we have to live that way. There is no one to tell, no matter how long and how long the announcements last. And we don't have any certainty that behind Covida-19 there won't be any other similar or different Covid. And that's what we need to live in. And in that, we should also adapt and equally apply ourselves to the laws that come into this assembly and that we are discussing. If we have a law that will facilitate, this law on the one hand facilitates the process, but on the other hand it really gives one certainty, so in these uncertain times let's still send some message to the citizens that we have a law that will provide them with security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8350	Thank you, Mrs. Dark Taritash. We've exhausted the debate on behalf of the club. Since no one has applied for an individual debate on behalf of the motionor, we will be finally addressed by the respected Secretary of State Stjepan Curaj. Here you go, Mr. Chury.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8351	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Finally, at the end of this package of laws that are in the first reading, so all your constructive proposals will be considered, of course, since they were not real about real topics. However, here I would only briefly comment on or refer to some of these claims made by the distinguished representative Peovic regarding the comparison of the contribution rate of funds or I think that the contribution of ROA funds to banks operating in Croatia and outside Croatia should only be noted that one of the benefits of entering the European exchange rate mechanism and the resulting introduction of the euro will now be a reduction of risk, a reduction of appreciation, depreciation, transaction costs, currency risks which are naturally contained in both part and form an integral part of determining the interest rate. Given our current financial market, these risks exist in some ways, I think they may be unwarranted, but they are the reason why some rates are even higher by entering this mechanism and by introducing the euro, we expect lower interest rates, which would also make the profit itself lower. Of course, the rate of return and not capital and assets relates to the costs themselves and the amount of capital that certain banks have in their countries is far higher than the queens compared to their branches. As far as the risk is concerned, we've already mentioned the Bank of Rijeka. The esteemed representative Lalovac has made a very good example, which I have set for the same Adriatic Bank as it works, as regards the amount of savings insurance, which is growth from 100,000 kuna to 100,000 euros, so we currently have around 357 billion deposits in Croatia this year, and of which there are 210 guaranteed. The Deposit Insurance Fund itself is practically 1.5% and amounts to around 5 billion kuna while the European target is 1%. As for the Rehabilitation Fund, which is also the esteemed representative Lalovec mentioned and which is his meaning, it is only here to say that the current share of Croatia is in the European fund, which is currently at 40 billion, and should go up to 60 billion and then stop, and then, if necessary, it is 90 million euros, so that is to add to that story where we are financially relative to Europe. Dear Representative Milosevic, as far as the concepts of card translation are concerned, absolutely agree, we have tried here to explain everything we can, such is the matter when you transpose certain directives, especially in a matter that is not used by us, then we must use foreign expressions in order to know exactly what part of the professional public is spoken of. And that's why I don't have that possibility of simplifying and making things simpler because there's a part of the expert public that works directly under this law that doesn't put up with any oversimplifications or improvisations. And finally, the distinguished representative Mrak Taritash mentioned, of course, the referendum that we have decided our way before. Once again, it would only be referred to why a full law, not individual amendments, because of these scopes of the amendments, because this corrects certain things, may be so to say the errors in transposition... from the previous EU Parliament and Council Directive on the establishment of a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit companies, so that we have one clean writing, normatively regulated because this is the matter that deserves it and I think that the position in at least the previous mandates of MPs has always been welcomed when it comes to full amendments to the law, and not to individual ones, because it also allows amendments in the second reading to the whole matter, and not only the part concerning the amendments. I thank you for your attention and for all who have contributed to the debate, and all who have made constructive proposals will certainly consider another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-07-0.u8352	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State and your patient associate. I hereby conclude the debate on this agenda point, and we will vote when the conditions are met. At the very end of the session several service information you can pass on to colleagues and colleagues. So tomorrow is Thursday 8 October we will begin work at 9.30 p.m. and item 1, and this is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Aquaculture Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 25. This concludes today's debate. Have a good afternoon. Thank you very much. I'll see you tomorrow. MEETING Interrupted at 14:21 p.m.
